# Site: https://www.royalholloway.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 493
# --------

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk:
Royal Holloway
Our postgraduate application deadline is fast approaching - apply now to join us in September.
Join us on Wednesday 17 September to learn about Royal Holloway from the comfort of your own home.
Join us at our autumn Open Days on Saturday 11 October or Saturday 22 November.
Immerse yourself in our social spaces, accommodation, teaching facilities and more with our 360 Virtual Experience.
What matters
Universities of Sanctuary represent a national network of university students and staff working to make HE institutions places of safety, solidarity and empowerment for people seeking sanctuary.
Whoever you are and wherever you're from, our dedicated International Student Recruitment team are here to help you with any questions about applying to Royal Holloway.
Find out more about being a student at Royal Holloway - from wellbeing support to the best places to eat on campus - with our undergraduate and postgraduate prospectuses.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here:
Find the right course for you
Biological Sciences
3 years full time
Business and Management
Classics
Computer Science
Drama, Theatre and Dance
Earth Sciences
Economics
Electronic Engineering
Geography
Health Studies
Law and Criminology
Liberal Arts
Media Arts
Politics and International Relations
Psychology
1 year full time
English
2 years full time
History
Information Security
4 years full time
Languages, Literatures and Cultures
Mathematics
Music
Physics
Watch some of our students describe their experiences of life and study at Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying:
Applying
Applying to study at Royal Holloway is straightforward.
You’ll find all the information you need to get started, right here.
See how to apply, how to write your best personal statement, what happens next, and much more.
Apply online through UCAS .
Find out all you need to know about applying to Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about undergraduate entry requirements.
Some questions answered about applying to study at Royal Holloway.
If you want to join a top tier university but are looking for extra support to make the transition, one of our Integrated Foundation Years could be for you.
Find out all you need to know about applying to study at Royal Holloway through Clearing.
Get answers to the questions that matter to you by chatting with our students and staff.
Become a Royal Holloway scholar and help fund your studies.
Find out how we support students from under-represented groups to access higher education
Find out the level of English language you will need to study at Royal Holloway as an international student.
We’re committed to providing each individual with chances to develop in whatever way is most meaningful to you.
Not sure where to start with the journey to higher education?
Find out how to support your student.
Our online only courses offer an engaging, interactive and interdisciplinary learning experience.
Apply now for courses starting in September 2025 using the Royal Holloway Applicant Portal .
Please note that the application deadline for home applicants is 29 August 2025.
The overseas deadline (20 August 2025) has now passed..
Find out more .
Find out all you need to know about entry requirements to study as a postgraduate at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about applying to study as a postgraduate student at Royal Holloway
Find out all you need to know about postgraduate offers to study at Royal Holloway.
Once you’ve accepted your offer, there are a few more steps you need to take before enrolling and starting your course.
Find out more about your subject of interest and our upcoming events.
You can apply online for a research degree with us.
Before you apply, it’s vital that you read our College Intellectual Property Policy .
Find out all you need to know about applying to study a research degree at Royal Holloway
Get in touch with your department’s Director of Postgraduate Education
Find out all you need to know about the next steps to studying a research degree at Royal Holloway.
You can find our Doctoral School information and resources here.
We'll help you boost your employability with one-to-one support, interview practice, employer events and more.
There are lots of exciting ways to get involved at Royal Holloway.
Discover new interests and enjoy existing ones.
Heading to university is exciting.
Finding the right place to live will get you off to a good start.
Whether you need support with your health or practical advice on budgeting or finding part-time work, we can help.
Discover more about our academic departments and schools.
Find out why Royal Holloway is in the top 25% of UK universities for research rated ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
We believe our students are entitled to a world-class learning experience that helps them to thrive and respects diversity.
Discover world-class research at Royal Holloway.
Discover more about who we are today, and our vision for the future.
Royal Holloway began as two pioneering colleges for the education of women in the 19th century, and their spirit lives on today.
We’ve played a role in thousands of careers, some of them particularly remarkable.
Find about our decision-making processes and the people who lead and manage Royal Holloway today.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway/open-days:
Open Days
Find out everything you need to know about Royal Holloway at one of our Open Days.
An Open Day is the perfect way to find out if we’re the university for you.
We hold three on-campus Open Days a year - one in the summer and two in the autumn - along with Online Open Days and campus tours, so you can explore and get a real feel for student life.
Our next Open Days are taking place on Saturday 11 October and Saturday 22 November - book your place below!
Can't join us in person?
Our next Online Open Day is on Wednesday 17 September .
Open Days run from 9.30am-4pm and you’re welcome to stay for just a morning or afternoon, or the entire day - it’s completely up to you!
All of our academic departments run talks and taster sessions so you can find out more about your chosen subject and meet your future lecturers.
There's also central talks and tours of our accommodation and facilities.
Best of all, you'll be able to explore our beautiful campus, and see where you'll learn, study and relax as a Royal Holloway student.
Follow the links below to find out more about what to expect at your visit.
If you have any questions, please contact opendays@rhul.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1784 414112 .
We look forward to seeing you soon!

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding:
Fees and funding
When planning your university course, it’s important to consider the costs associated with your studies.
Whether it’s an undergraduate, postgraduate or research degree you’re applying for, there are various fees, and funding, associated with them.
Choose the stage of studies relevant to you and see the tuition fees, bursaries, funding and support available.
If you're interested in our undergraduate or postgraduate scholarships, please use our search page to find the best one for you.
Find out about what fees apply to all undergraduate degrees at Royal Holloway
A range of bursaries are available for eligible students.
Get help with the costs of studying and living during your undergraduate degree
Find out about what fees apply to all postgraduate degrees at Royal Holloway.
It’s hard to give a precise figure for the living costs of your postgraduate studies, since it depends on your needs and lifestyle.
All alumni benefit from a 15% discount on postgraduate tuition fees.
Before applying for a research degree at Royal Holloway, it’s worth considering how you’ll fund your studies
Find out about the research degree scholarships and funding options available for your studies.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students:
International students
With almost a third of our students joining us from outside the UK, and alumni in 165 countries around the world.
Royal Holloway, University of London was founded over 170 years ago to provide equity in opportunity, to transform lives through education and create positive change - doing this with bravery, curiosity and care.
We have the courage and conviction to think differently, providing a platform to challenge conventions.
With combined and integrated strengths in innovative education and transformative research, we have a passion to create, teach and share knowledge in both established and emerging areas.
Through our impactful research, we seek creative solutions to complex challenges to make a real difference in the world.
We are a place for growth.
We aim to empower individuals and transform lives through inclusive education, an active, and close-knit community, and partnerships that link us with local and global industry and culture.
We are a university of social purpose, creating positive change, for what matters - for our students, for society and for the world.
Whoever you are and wherever you are from, our dedicated International Student Recruitment team are here to help you with any questions you have about applying to, and studying at, Royal Holloway.
Find out who is responsible for your country/region and get in touch today here .
12 August - Clearing Webinar
24 June - Postgraduate Pathways Webinar: Employability in the School of Business and Management
Got any questions about applying and studying at Royal Holloway?
Contact your country representative today.
Find country-specific details about entry requirements, scholarships, student life and more.
View upcoming webinars and when we will be visiting your country, in-person or virtually.
You can search by course title (e.g.
Accounting and Finance), keyword (e.g.
Economics), or filter by department or type.
Discover our International Foundation Year, International Year One, and Pre-Masters programmes.
Information on CAS numbers, BRP cards and how to apply for your Student visa.
Our International Student Support team provide top tips on how to prepare for, and make the most of, your time in the UK.
Information for international students wishing to study at Royal Holloway under the International Exchange programme.
Find out about the costs and financial support available for your studies.
Download or order your copy of the Royal Holloway prospectus or a departmental brochure.
Resources covering personal statements, UCAS, study skills and much more
If you're interested in undergraduate study at Royal Holloway, there are a range of sources of funding open to you depending on where you're from.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/ug-prospectus:
At Royal Holloway, we believe in big goals and bigger opportunities.
If you’re interested in starting your higher education journey with a University of social purpose, this page is for you.
From here you can find everything you need to get started, and our students and staff will show you what makes life at Royal Holloway so special.
You can also download or order our printed prospectus .
Choose us to explore what really matters to you.
Join a community of forward-thinkers and game-changers, who’ll inspire you to make a real difference in the world.
We’re proud of our groundbreaking history, helping to pave the way for women’s education, and we continue to challenge expectations today.
We’ll help you fit in, and stand out, to work out what’s important to you and most of all, leave university with more than just a degree.
Department
University is a place where you can develop the whole you, both in work and play.
Exploring new interests, developing fresh skills and enjoying an active social life are important parts of being a student, and you don’t have to live on campus to get involved.
Going to university is exciting but, especially after the last couple of years, can feel like a daunting transition.
As a friendly and caring community, we’re here to help you be the best you possible.
Support is there in whatever aspect of your life you need it, to help you thrive.
We'll prepare you for the modern workforce as a priority from day one.
Our focus on employability will support you to identify and articulate the skills and achievements you gain through your course and other activities as you prepare for graduate employment.
From the day you arrive, and for two years after you graduate, you’ll be able to access our Careers Service, where you can find practical support like CV and job application checks and book one-to-one appointments to help you plan out and fulfil your career goals.
We run regular careers and part-time jobs fairs to find new opportunities and arrange talks by speakers from a range of industries, where you can find out exactly what employers are looking for.
Find out more about the careers support on offer at Royal Holloway.
Let our guides show you what’s on offer on our campus and in the local area.
Join our tour of the cafés, bars and restaurants on campus.
Ryan shows us round his room in George Eliot Hall.
Join Ellen as she takes us on a guided tour of campus.
Explore the best places to visit outside of our campus.
Lizzie takes us on a tour of our Science facilities.
Isabella takes us on a tour of our Arts facilities.
Muhammad takes us on a tour of our study spaces.
Immerse yourself in our social spaces, accommodation, teaching facilities and more with our 360 o Virtual Experience.
In person or online, this is your chance to meet with some of our world-leading academics, staff from key services such as Careers and Wellbeing, and current students.
Want to get a real feel for student life?
Come to one of our Open Days, in person or online.
Meet lecturers and current students, visit your academic department, find out more about our accommodation and the support available to you, and explore our facilities at your own pace.
Our next Open Days are taking place on Saturday 11 October and Saturday 22 November - book your place now!
Visit us at an Open Day or campus tour, or join one of our online events, to get a feel for your potential new home.
Our staff and students are ready to answer all your questions and share the benefit of their experience.
Start work on your application.
Relax and don’t get stressed about it!
Check out our resources that will help you with your personal statement and other questions you might have about the process.
Get your application in by the UCAS deadline.
Check if you’re eligible for money off your studies with one of the large number of scholarships and bursaries we have on offer.
We really encourage you to take a look and go for it.
Make sure to get your application in by the deadline.
Congratulations, you did it!
If you didn’t quite achieve the grades you were hoping for, we’d still love to hear from you on our Clearing lines.
You might also decide to choose one of our Integrated Foundation Year degrees, to gain an additional year of dedicated support to help with the transition to university-level study.
Research and apply – don’t be afraid to speak to agents, school counsellors and our International Student Recruitment team and your country representative.
Ask as many questions as you like, about Royal Holloway or the application process, or both!
Make the most out of the many opportunities to speak with us in person.
Our staff and students will be happy to share the benefit of their experience and give you lots of advice.
Join our online events and webinars if you can’t visit us face-to-face.
Apply for your visa and pay your deposit by the deadlines.
Don’t hesitate to ask us if anything isn’t clear, or you have questions.
We’re happy to help.
Sign up and we’ll send you information about your subject, and keep you up to date with news and events coming up at Royal Holloway.
Your browser does not support iframes.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/pg-prospectus:
Whether you’re new to Royal Holloway or have studied with us previously, our online postgraduate prospectus will help prepare you for a higher degree.
Our staff and students are here to show you what makes life at Royal Holloway so special and how studying with us can help you meet your goals.
Royal Holloway consistently ranks among the UK’s leading universities for both teaching and research, with 88% of Royal Holloway’s research rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in the latest REF (2021), putting us in the top 25% of UK universities overall.
Many of our departments were ranked in the top 5 in the UK for the quality of their research outputs .
As a postgraduate student you’ll learn and work alongside experts whose research is changing the world.
Our state-of-the-art facilities and supportive and inclusive community mean you’ll thrive in your chosen subject and future career.
Use our coursefinder tool to find a degree that suits you.
Take time to speak to our Postgraduate Student Recruitment Manager, International Student Recruitment Team, your agent, or a member of academic staff if you need more information on the course.
Click Apply Now on the course you have selected, provide the requested documents in support of your application, and our Admissions Team will review your application.
We recommend submitting your application before the deadlines listed on the page below.
There is no fee for applying .
Funding a postgraduate degree can seem daunting at first but there are a number of options available, including Student Finance, scholarships, tuition fee discounts and college studentships.
Make sure to visit the scholarships section of the online prospectus to learn more about what's on offer.
Alumni who enrol on a postgraduate course at Royal Holloway are automatically given a 15% discount on tuition fees for the first year.
You don’t even need to apply for it!
To be eligible you will need to have Home or International fee status, and have successfully completed an undergraduate degree at Royal Holloway.
We have a wide range of scholarships available to help support you in your studies.
Visit our scholarships search page to see a full list and select the ones that are right for you.
Our Central London campus in Bloomsbury, a vibrant district packed with sites of cultural and historic significance, offers all the benefits of studying in the heart of the capital.
You’ll gain access to industry contacts and networking opportunities provided by our academic staff, and have access to a huge range of archival and library materials through our membership of the University of London.
Positioned close to both Gatwick and Heathrow airports, Royal Holloway is a global university which welcomes students from all over the world.
Our expert International Student Recruitment Team is on hand to offer events, meetings and general support so you know exactly what to expect from the application process, throughout your degree, and beyond.
Whether you choose to live close to the beautiful natural surroundings of our Egham campus, or in bustling London, you’ll find Royal Holloway will become a home-away-from-home in no time.
With a long and proud tradition of being at the forefront of academic research, our university is a perfect place to carry out doctoral study.
For PhD applications we recommend contacting your chosen department with a brief outline of your background and area of research, and a member of academic staff will help guide and support you in your application.
Explore some of the themes and key issues addressed in our postgraduate courses via our webinar library.
Want to attend one of our future webinars?
Keep an eye on our postgraduate events page for more information about upcoming talks.
Your career matters!
That’s why our highly experienced careers team are on hand to assist you with whatever you need for the next leap forward in your professional life.
Whether it’s gaining new skills, CV guidance, interview practice or help looking for employment opportunities, we’ll support you every step of the way - both during your studies and for two years after graduation.
Delphine explains more about supporting you at Royal Holloway.
Starting university is a big step but if things get tough, we’re here for you.
Whether it’s money issues, mental health problems, exam stress, worries about unwelcome attention or something that doesn't feel right, or anything else, our Wellbeing team is there to offer support and signpost you to the right place for help.
Ryan shows us around his room in George Eliot hall.
George Eliot is our newest hall and is laid out in townhouses, but we’ve got lots of other styles to suit your requirements and budget.
Whether you'll be taught primarily on our Egham campus or our London campus, we have plenty of options for you to explore.
Join Ellen on a guided tour of our Egham campus.
Why wouldn’t you want to study on one of the most beautiful university campuses in the world?
It’s home to teaching and study spaces, bars and cafés, high-quality accommodation, and dynamic sports facilities.
All of this is set in 135 acres of stunning green space.
It’s a friendly place, where a close-knit community thrives.
Join our tour of the cafés, bars and restaurants on our Egham campus.
Need somewhere sleek to grab a coffee and get some work done?
Or somewhere comfy to enjoy a home-cooked meal with friends?
Our large range of eateries on campus all have their own style and character, designed to suit every budget, taste, mood and dietary need.
Our Egham campus is located in Surrey, in the South-East of England.
The centre of London is just 40 minutes away by train, and we’re seven miles from London Heathrow airport.
Shop, eat, relax and take in entertainment and culture in nearby Windsor and Staines, or connect with nature and recharge in parkland within walking distance of campus.
We’re perfectly placed to give you access to whatever kind of scene you want.
Muhammad shares his experience as a student living at home and commuting to Royal Holloway.
If you want to travel to campus instead of living here, don’t worry - our free parking and easy public transport links make commuting an easy alternative, and there’s lots of support for you to plan ahead, get involved and make friends.
Open to students of all beliefs and none, our multi-faith community aims to support you in your personal faith and spiritual journey, whatever your background or circumstances.
Ellie talks about how being on the netball and lacrosse teams had a positive impact on her time at Royal Holloway, and how our active sessions were able to help her get back into sport.
There’s a whole host of opportunities and fantastic facilities to be active at Royal Holloway; whether that’s playing sport competitively against other universities, exercising to keep fit or having a go at something new such as Ultimate Frisbee, Ninjutsu or whatever takes your fancy.
Join Muhammad as he shares his favourite spots for studying on our Egham campus - whether you prefer silent study or social spaces for groupwork, there's something for everyone.
Follow him around campus as he visits Founder's Building, Emily Wilding Davison Building and the Boilerhouse.
Conveniently, all of these spots are close to our cafés and restaurants so you can grab a bite to eat too.
Take your own tour with our Virtual Experience.
Join a tour of our Central London campus study spaces.
You’ll find us in the heart of London’s Bloomsbury, an area loaded with museums, libraries, production houses and agencies as well as shops, pubs and cafés.
Our central London campus is made up of three buildings, just a few minutes apart: 11 Bedford Square, Senate House and Stewart House.
In person or online, this is your chance to meet with some of our world-leading academics, staff from key services, and current students.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/your-future-career:
Your future career
Get ready for the world of work from day one.
At Royal Holloway we’re all about making sure you leave university with more than just a degree, with the skills you need to stand out to employers and succeed in your future career.
We’ll be by your side from day one, and up to two years after you graduate, helping you identify and build up the skills that employers are looking for.
Everything you do here, from your academic work to activities outside your studies, such as getting involved with our volunteering or even starting up your own business, can help enhance your skillset and build your confidence.
You’ll be encouraged to prepare for your future career, with guidance from your academic department perfectly complemented by our expert Career Services team.
Together they’ll give you practical support on writing applications, preparing for interviews, finding placements and part-time jobs, along with the chance to network with employers and former students who’ve gone on to great things.
You can find plenty of examples of careers our alumni have gone into by looking at our individual academic department webpages in the Department and Schools section.
If you're a recruiter interested in attending one of our Careers Fair or want to find out more about the benefit of employing a Royal Holloway graduate, you can find out more here .
Our expert team will help you prepare for your future career.
Royal Holloway has all the opportunities you'll need to pack your CV full of relevant experiences.
Find out more about volunteering at Royal Holloway.
Find out about where studying at Royal Holloway could take you from some of our alumni.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/central-london-campus:
Central London campus
Take your career to the next level with a postgraduate course at our Central London campus.
We’re based in the heart of Central London’s Bloomsbury district, just a few minutes’ walk from the British Library and Russell Square.
That puts you in the perfect place to directly access all the facilities and networks the capital offers.
You’ll be taught by cutting-edge researchers and practitioners with direct industry links.
Different courses regularly welcome guest speakers to inspire you with multiple viewpoints and industry-insider perspectives.
Royal Holloway benefits from a strong international community with students and academics from countries all over the world forming a diverse, warm and supportive community.
There are over 95,000 alumni members across 164 countries who studied at Royal Holloway.
That means you can be confident in the quality of our teaching and get to know students and supportive staff from all over the world.
If you’re a graduate of Royal Holloway you’ll get a discount on our tuition fees of 15% .
And if you’d like to join us from another University of London institution you’ll get a 10% discount .
Study one of our full-time, part-time or intensive programmes.
Senate House, Stewart House and Bedford Square in the heart of Bloomsbury.
Find out about the options available near our London campus.
We know that your support needs will vary.
But when you need it, the right help is at hand.
Gain the creative skills needed to lead the production of tomorrow's film & television.
Develop a critical understanding of terrorism and counter-terrorism studies.
Develop your creative writing whilst studying in literary Bloomsbury.
Discover our range of Project Management masters degrees.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/schools-and-colleges:
Schools and colleges
We offer a range of activities and resources for schools and colleges.
Our schools and colleges team would be delighted to visit your school or college in person, engage with your students virtually, or invite you to our campus.
For international schools, please visit our International Schools page .
To find out more about our activities, or to work with our team please get in touch- schools@royalholloway.ac.uk .
For more information on how we can support you and your students, sign up to our monthly schools newsletter.
For updates on our courses, events and what our students are saying about us, sign up to our mailing list.
Meet the members of the Schools and Colleges Liaison Team
Our online resources for schools and colleges
Experience university first hand at one of our events.
Resources and activities from our academic departments

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/sign-up-for-more-information:
Find out more about Royal Holloway
Fill in the form below and we'll send you information about our community, campus, local area, upcoming events and more.
Parent/Supporter - If you're a parent or supporter of someone who's considering applying or has already applied to Royal Holloway, please complete this form instead.
Integrated Foundation Year - If you're interested in finding out more about our Integrated Foundation Year courses, please complete this form instead.
Central London campus (postgraduate) - If you’re interested in postgraduate courses taught at our Central London campus, please complete this form instead.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life:
Student life
Find out what student life is really like at Royal Holloway from some of our current students.
We'll help you boost your employability and find your ideal career with one-to-one support, interview practice, employer events and more.
Get a taste of our campus and the courses we offer, from virtual tours and webinars to in person Open Days.
Find everything you need with our online prospectus, or download/order a copy of our printed prospectus.
Find out about what life is like at Royal Holloway, University of London
See where we live, study and work in a beautiful historic setting with state-of-the-art facilities.
Discover everything you need to know about life outside the lecture theatre.
Find our term dates for the coming years
Whatever support you need, in whatever aspect of your life, we’re here for you.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus:
Our campus
Over the 130-year history of the University, we have created an environment where a close-knit community thrives.
Our campus is one of the most beautiful in the world with numerous teaching and study spaces, bars and cafés, high-quality accommodation , and sports facilities.
All this is set in 135 acres of stunning parkland.
Most teaching and social activity takes place on campus and it’s a friendly place, with a strong sense of community as new students soon become familiar faces.
Founder’s Building is one of the world’s most spectacular university buildings, and home to our famous Picture Gallery containing Thomas Holloway’s fine collection of Victorian paintings and our beautiful chapel.
It also houses a dining hall and library and provides a home for 500 students.
The campus is just 40 minutes by train from London and seven miles from Heathrow, with many attractions, sporting and entertainment venues within easy reach.
Explore our campus through 360-degree videos to gain a feel for life at Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
Accommodation
There are lots of options for you, both on and off campus, so you can find a place that’s ideal for every stage of your studies.
If you choose to stay in university accommodation, you can use our portal to apply once you have accepted an offer to study with us.
We understand that affordable, high-quality accommodation is fundamental to student success and wellbeing.
Please take a look at our Accommodation Affordability Commitment Statement for more information.
New undergraduates who make us their firm choice and apply by our accommodation deadline are guaranteed an offer of a place in halls.
Enjoy freshly-prepared meals from your dining hall.
Each catered hall also has a fridge and microwave for snacks and drinks.
Catered, single and shared rooms, shared bathroom and kitchen, single-gender corridors
From £3,668.14
Catered, single room, en suite bathroom
From £7,005.44
Prefer to cook for yourself?
These halls have shared kitchens where you can make your own meals.
Self-catered, single room, shared bathroom and kitchen
From £8,815.24
Self-catered, single room, en suite bathroom, shared kitchen/diner
From £9,070.60
From £7,375.68
From £7,288.40
From £4,575.20
From £7,961.38
Whether you'll be taught primarily on our Egham campus or our London campus, here are some options you might want to explore when looking for somewhere to live.
For those of you who'll be taught primarily on our Egham campus, there’s a variety of accommodation available in our halls, depending on your budget and preference.
From £11,599.00
From £10,475.50
From £6,020.00
As part of the University of London, Royal Holloway has access to a small number of rooms in intercollegiate halls of residence in central London.
With a limited number of places, intercollegiate accommodation is available on a first-come-first-served basis to full-time postgraduate students only.
Find out about our adapted accommodation options.
If you're an international student studying a university preparation programme, you can choose to live in University-managed accommodation or arrange your own rental accommodation.
Find out more about the accommodation options available and how to book your room at the Royal Holloway International Study Centre .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student:
Being a student
Exploring new interests, developing fresh skills and enjoying an active social life are an important part of being a student - and at Royal Holloway you’ll have plenty of opportunity to do all three.
The vibrant social scene is one of the things that makes the student experience at Royal Holloway so special.
We're one of the top sporting University of London institutions with more than 80 sports teams and fantastic facilities.
From bhangra to debating, there’s a dazzling choice of clubs and societies.
Hear directly from students about their Royal Holloway experience.
Make your voice heard through our student newspapers and radio and TV stations.
Our Students’ Union is one of the most active in the UK.
Advice and information on finding part-time work.
We welcome those coming back to education.
Read more about getting to campus and planning your time as a commuting student.
If you are a care leaver or care experienced person, Royal Holloway provides support for you even before you join us.
Join Rhys, Maria and Helena as they fill you in on all of the 'bear' necessities of choosing a university and navigating student life on campus.
Student-facing policies, regulations and procedures giving more information on our approach to academic matters, student affairs and life on campus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/chat:
Chat with our students and staff about what matters to you
Our students know us better than anyone and can tell you all about life at Royal Holloway, from what their courses are like, to accommodation options and what’s available on campus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing:
Support and wellbeing
We’ve got lots of help on hand, including:
If you are living with a disability or a medical condition, our team is on hand to support you with your individual support needs.
This can include, but isn’t limited to, exam access arrangements, reasonable adjustments, diagnostic assessments, Disabled Students' Allowance , and department and library support.
Find out more about disability and neurodiversity support .
Our services help make your time at university as financially stress-free as possible with access to guidance from our Financial Wellbeing advisors .
There is a range of part-time work opportunities on campus and in the local area.
We also offer a wide range of scholarships to help fund your studies.
Find out more about financial support .
Our Wellbeing team is here to support you with all aspects of your mental health and wellbeing.
You have access to an NHS-run on-campus medical health centre, counsellors who run workshops and individual sessions, wellbeing advisers and multi-faith chaplaincy.
We're committed to protecting students from harassment and sexual misconduct, and you can find related policies, processes and reporting mechanisms on a dedicated section of our website.
We are a multi-faith community and we aim to support you in your personal faith and spiritual journey, whatever your beliefs or circumstances.
Learn more about our multi-faith community .
We'll help you sort out immigration and visa issues, and settle into student life at Royal Holloway.
Find out more about support for international students .
You can access help through the Centre for the Development of Academic Skills (CeDAs) which runs workshops, 1:1 advice and drop-in sessions to help boost your academic and study skills.
A personal tutor is an academic member of staff from your department, who is a designated friendly face and line of support.
They are there as a point of contact to help you settle into academic life, make sure you are coping with university life, and signpost you to other university services if and when needed.
Peer Guides are current students (in the same School as you) and are another great source of information.
They will be able to provide you with practical guidance and helpful resources.
The Students' Union is dedicated to representing your views as a student so that you enjoy your time studying at Royal Holloway.
There are loads of different ways you can get involved on campus, with over 100 clubs and societies to choose from to make friends and enjoy what you love to do.
There are also opportunities to become an academic rep to influence changes on your course, participate in our Union Workshops, and have a say on the services we deliver.
Visit the Students' Union .
Our students’ children have access to priority places at Bright Horizons , a nursery next to our campus.
You can find further information on local childcare on the Surrey County Council website.
+44 (01784 276641

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway:
Visit Royal Holloway
Whether you're interested in undergraduate or postgraduate study, you can visit Royal Holloway either in person or online to find out more about our courses, student life and our campus.
For more information about any of our events, please email opendays@rhul.ac.uk .
Explore Royal Holloway at our on campus undergraduate events.
Find out more about Royal Holloway from the comfort of your own home.
Join us in Central London, at our Egham campus or online.
Register for either a self-led or guided tour of our campus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/the-local-area:
The local area
Whether you fancy a gentle meander down the River Thames, a day of thrills at Thorpe Park or maybe a picnic in nearby Windsor Great Park, there's something nearby for everyone.
Our campus is located in Surrey, in the South East of England, just outside the M25.
Royal Holloway is close to the attractive village of Englefield Green and a ten-minute walk from the town of Egham.
With fast rail connections, you have easy access to both Central London, with its wealth of entertainment, and some of the UK’s top sporting venues such as Wimbledon and Twickenham.
The nearby towns of Staines, Windsor, Richmond and Kingston provide shopping, eating out, theatre and cinema experiences while the sprawling parklands of Windsor Great Park and Virginia Water give you plenty of space to clear your head and be inspired.
Whether you're looking to relax, be entertained, watch or play sport or enjoy live music, you'll find a host of activities close by at Royal Holloway.
Check out the sections below for some ideas of what to do in the local area when you're not studying.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/virtual-experience:
Whether it’s about our accommodation options or the best places to hang out on campus, our students are happy to help.
Explore everything Royal Holloway has to offer with our 2026 undergraduate prospectus.
Find out more about life on campus, and the variety of courses and research-led teaching that we offer.
Our Online Open Day is your chance to learn about all things Royal Holloway from the comfort of your own home.
Date 17 September 2025 Time 3:00 pm
Location Online (map)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education:
Research and education
Chris Hines MBE has been given an Honorary Degree in recognition of his lifelong commitment to protecting England’s seas and waterways, and campaigning for a more sustainable world.
New research led by Professor Alessandra Devoto reveals plant compounds in Green Basil and Astragalus hold the potential to treat liver fibrosis – often a precursor to incurable liver cirrhosis.
A book published by Dr Daanika Kamal from the Department of Law and Criminology at Royal Holloway highlights how women in Pakistan are increasingly pursuing legal avenues against acts of domestic violence despite being failed by their judiciary system.
Royal Holloway, University of London is one of 10 leading research-focused universities forming a new strategic partnership.
Royal Holloway is home to a range of internationally-acclaimed research and education departments.
Browse our departments and schools
Our research excellence can be found across arts, humanities, science and social science
Our research has real impact on the world we live in
Find out more about our Doctoral school
Career preparation is embedded into our curriculum in a structured way
Find the official research centre you’re interested in

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools:
Departments and schools
We pride ourselves on the quality, depth and breadth of subjects, teaching and research we offer, at all stages of your studies.
Here you can explore our departments and schools and get a flavour for what it will be like to study here.
Feel free to contact our departments or schools below with any questions you may have about studying, research, or general information about the teaching and research they provide.
Explore our world-class biological sciences research that is addressing global challenges
Find out about the exciting opportunities in our school
Find out more about our individual approach in a friendly and dynamic department
Explore a fascinating breadth of material, looking at literature and culture from a comparative perspective
Study or work with world leaders in computing research
Explore our community with exceptional facilities and creative experts
Explore our internationally renowned research and teaching
All about our world-class Economics programmes and research, and your post-graduation career prospects
Explore the science and innovation in Electronic Engineering
Discover the Department of English, home to renowned scholars and creative writers
Discover our world-leading centre for geographical research and teaching
Health Studies is an exciting new area of growth with a focus on promoting healthier populations and environments.
Find out more about our broad range of expertise, spanning time and crossing continents
World-leaders in research and education in information and cyber security
Discover how we combine language learning with cultural awareness
Find out more about our interdisciplinary school and our research and programmes
An internationally-recognised approach to study with exceptional flexibility
See what’s on offer in this pioneering and internationally respected department.
Enter our creatively rich and intellectually critical community
Find out about our enviable research reputation and fantastic student experience
Take a look at our unique approach that breaks down disciplinary boundaries
Discover our world-class research community and intellectually stimulating teaching.
Discover our internationally recognised experts working across diverse disciplines
Find out more about our dynamic research and teaching at the forefront of Psychology
Find out about our teaching, research and programmes
Discover what it’s like to study management with us.
Discover more about the School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Sciences.
The School of Humanities at Royal Holloway offers a rich and diverse, research-led curriculum that helps prepare students for the future of work.
Find out more about the School of Law and Social Sciences.
Our mission is to be world-leading across the range of disciplines that make up our school: Biological Sciences, Earth Sciences, Geography, Health Studies and Psychology.
Find out more about the School of Performing and Digital Arts at Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/research:
Research
We tackle regional, national and global challenges alongside industry, government, and other research institutions.
We set new research agendas inspired by our commitment to equality, academic excellence, and social purpose.
Our research demonstrates strength in the following five areas:
Each of our Research Institutes and Centres and Departments and Schools brings a unique contribution to these key research strengths.
A key characteristic of our research is the way in which we apply expertise across disciplines, in partnership with a breadth of external organisations to create far reaching impact and influence.
As a research-intensive university, we’re one of the UK’s top 25 universities for research quality.
In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, 88% of our research was judged to be within the top two categories of 4* and 3*, defining it as either world-leading, or internationally excellent respectively.
We engage the public with the design, conduct and dissemination of research to enhance its quality and impact.
Explore the range of world-class research at Royal Holloway.
Our research excellence is underpinned and enhanced by an inclusive, collaborative and enabling research culture and environment.
Royal Holloway has a strong community of over 600 postgraduate researchers
Explore how our research solves real-world challenges and makes a difference outside of academia.
How research by Royal Holloway academics is rated under the Research Excellence Framework
Search for inspirational researchers at all career stages at the heart of our diverse and vibrant research community.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/education:
Inclusive learning and education
At Royal Holloway, we are committed to developing an 'inclusive by design' approach to the way we design and deliver our courses.
As a community, we are working to develop our educational practices and approaches to support all our students to grow and succeed.
Here are just a few examples of the ways we are shaping an inclusive learning and education environment for our students.
Our Classics department recently launched the MINOTAUR (Mental Illness and Neurodiversity Academic Support) project.
Led by Dr Liz Gloyn, Dr Emilio Zucchetti and Dr Zena Kamash, the initiative involves working closely with students living with neurodivergence and mental illness to design meaningful interventions that support their individual learning needs.
Politics and International Relations students under the guidance of Dr Kaat Smets used an experimental online discussion system called Potluck to actively participate in discu ssions and express their views without social influence.
Designed by Dr Emma Lieu during her PhD at Royal Holloway, Potluck, uses machine learning to support the inclusion and appreciation of different perspectives in the classroom.
Psychology students had the opportunity to co-design the Psychology of Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) module in their final year under the guidance of Dr James Ravenhill.
T he module employed inclusive pedagogies to explore how a range of EDI issues affect certain groups of people, giving students the confidence to discuss and act on the inequalities they see and/or experience themselves.
Our English department students were offered the opportunity to study a range of literature written in a wealth of vernaculars, from Jamaican Patois to Spanglish and Polari.
Led by Dr Karina Likorish Quinn, the final year option module in Vernacular Literature allowed students to write their final assessments in their vernacular of choice.
With many students opting to write in vernaculars within which they were raised, often drawing on their own multilingualism or regional dialects.
Our inclusive MSc in Economics has been designed to cover a wide range of economic theories, methodologies, and applications.
It includes diverse perspectives from different schools of economic thought, regions, and cultures, ensuring students are exposed to a comprehensive understanding of economic principles.
Students are invited to explore ethics and the impacts of policies on different social groups and marginalised communities, as well as policies that help reduce inequalities and promote social justice.
Learn more about why our teaching is world class, research focussed, and industry informed
Read more about how we encourage innovation to give students the best learning experience
Learn how we support our students to thrive in all areas of their lives so they can focus on their studies
How our curriculum helps students progress to employment
How we engage students as partners in the co-creation of their education experience
Learn more about our teaching staff and education structure

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/collaborate-with-us:
Collaborate with us
We work with the public sector, businesses, charities, other universities, and the public, nationally and internationally, to generate new knowledge, apply our research findings, and deliver innovative products, processes and services.
Organisations partner with us because they value the quality of our research.
In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, it was confirmed that Royal Holloway remains within the top 25 per cent of universities in the UK for research.
Find out about the ways you can collaborate with us below, or email us at RHInnovation@rhul.ac.uk
Access our world-class facilities, from one-off usages to exclusive hire.
Find out about how we commercialise our research to create spin-out companies.
Address your business challenges via a three-way collaboration between your organisation, Royal Holloway and a talented graduate.
Benefit from our social science research via events, collaborative impact projects, placements and studentships.
Partner with Royal Holloway to develop research and innovation projects, sponsor PhD studentships or commercialise innovations.
Expert advice to businesses and organisations, on a range of industrial or commercial challenges.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/access-our-facilities:
Access our facilities
Royal Holloway hosts world-class research facilities and specialist equipment.
We offer businesses, government agencies, non-profit organisations, and other external partners access to facilities, equipment hire, specialist services and opportunities for collaborative projects.
For more information, please explore the links below or contact RHInnovation@rhul.ac.uk .
Superconducting nanofabrication facility for the development of quantum devices
Custom-designed laboratories and cutting-edge instrumentation and measurement methods
Drone testing and training facility
Advancing quantum technology by research at ultralow temperatures
National Laboratory for the UK Creative Industries R&D

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/technicians:
Technicians
Technicians are key in supporting academic colleagues and students across the University.
As a diverse group of specialists they support the practical elements of teaching and cutting edge research.
Technical colleagues are relied upon to employ specialist training and knowledge to solve a variety of technical and practical problems that often require innovation, ingenuity, creativity and practical experience.
They provide a pool of knowledge that can be passed on to other staff and students through instruction, training and mentoring.
We have technicians across nine departments in the university, to learn more about the different specialties, select a department from the list below.
The Biological Sciences technical team work across core services, teaching and research.
They are based around specialist areas such as laboratories, workshops, prep rooms, controlled environment facilities (e.g.
glasshouses, BSU) and stores.
All members of technical staff have responsibility for safety and compliance in their areas, training new and existing users on equipment and in facilities.
The main activities supported are teaching and research, the team also support or lead outreach activities on site with local schools, colleges, and at public engagement events.
The team has trained Health and Safety Co-ordinators (HSCs), and technicians with specific responsibilities around laser, radiation and biological safety, who provide advice and guidance on safety to staff and students across the department.
Many specialist technicians hold PhDs and degrees in their subject areas, while others bring extensive industry, education and research experience.
The technical team are the go-to people for help and advice, many being fire marshals and first aiders, helping keep the departmental community safe while working in high-risk areas.
Five technicians comprise the technical team supporting research, teaching and practice in the department of  Drama, Theatre and Dance.
During its relatively brief 45-year history, the department has grown into one of the country’s largest university Drama departments.
Technical staff are required to have experience, qualification and knowledge in assorted stage craft which includes:-  stage and production management; electrical installation, maintenance and repair; lighting design; costume and prop design and manufacture; set design and realisation; sound design and installation as well as video and effects creation.
The Department of Earth Sciences Technical team are responsible for providing technical support in laboratories, fieldwork, teaching and research activities within the Earth Sciences department.
The technical team play a crucial role in assisting researchers and faculty members in conducting experiments, maintaining equipment, sample collection, sample preparation, data analysis, and ensuring laboratory health and safety protocols are followed.
They are responsible for preparing samples, calibrating instruments, maintaining geological and environmental monitoring instruments, and assisting with fieldwork expeditions.
Specialist equipment operation is also conducted by the technical team, including analytical instruments such as gas mass spectrometers, Electron microscope, Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer (ICP-MS) and Elemental Analyser.
They manage a variety of specialist labs including the new school imaging suit facility, clean laboratories, geochemistry, analytical, palaeontology and fault dynamic laboratories.
The team have a wide range of expertise in various techniques such as microscopy, spectroscopy, geochemical analysis, geographic information systems, photography, thin section preparation and more.
Electronic Engineering has a small team of 4.
We cover all areas of teaching and research.
We have expertise in fabrication, design, electronics and computing.
We support the student project work and engage heavily with the creative side of the teaching.
Over the summer we run a very popular school work experience programme supported by the technicians.
This has grown year on year and we are in high demand.
To learn more about the Electronic  Engineering department click here
The Department of Geography has a small technical team who support a wide range of teaching and research activities.
Between them they are responsible for ensuring our laboratories and equipment run safely and efficiently, supervising and advising students in laboratories, producing graphics for displays and communications, demonstrating on field trips, keeping our IT facilities running and preparing samples for research analysis.
Each technician provides specialist support to a dedicated subject area.
To learn more about the Department of Geography and our activities, click here .
We’re a team consisting of 4 members of staff dedicated to supporting the computer science, mathematics and information security departments.
We offer support and advice specifically tailored to the computer science, information security and maths departments.
You can learn more about our work here.
The Media Arts department has eight technicians supporting practice teaching across many courses and modules.
The technical team are skilled in multiple digital disciplines surrounding film production such as camera technique, post-production, VFX, audio recording and clean-up as well as video game design and virtual production.
There are also practical disciplines like set building, prop making and handling.
These skill sets are ever expanding and passed onto students through workshops, lessons and one-to-one tuition.
The department of Physics has eleven technical staff with a wide range of skills, including mechanical engineering, electronics, cryogenics, teaching and computing.
The technical staff support all aspects of teaching and research within the department, from undergraduate classes and projects, to high level research in particle physics, dark matter and neutrinos and condensed matter physics (including quantum computing and materials, superconductors and biodiagnostics).
The Department of Psychology is home to a small technical team, consisting of five colleagues with varied expertise.
The teams' strengths are in MRI, VR, coding, and online research programs such as Gorilla and Qualtrics.
The teams' work spans all levels of academia, from supporting UG students with project work, to supporting Professors with research and teaching.
To learn more about the Department of Psychology and our activities, click here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us:
About us
Upheld by our values, our RH2030s strategy prepares us for future challenges and exciting opportunities.
Are you ready to explore the things that really matter to you?
Join Royal Holloway’s thriving community of gamechangers passionate about making a real difference in the world.
Royal Holloway is the backdrop to many stories – historical, architectural, and cinematic, as well as academic and personal.
Find out about our rich history and how it inspires us today, as well as some of our successes, our latest news and much more.
Discover more about the University we are today, and our vision for our future.
The people and structures that enable good governance of our University.
At Royal Holloway, we’re united in our response to the climate and biodiversity crises.
Find out where our money comes from, how we spend it and our economic impact
Thousands of careers, many of them particularly remarkable
Find out about all the latest news taking place at Royal Holloway.
Find out about all the latest events taking place at Royal Holloway

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/contact-us:
Contact us
Please use the list below to locate contact information for various teams at Royal Holloway, University of London.
If a telephone number is not shown for the service you require, please use the email addresses provided and a member of staff will respond to you.
If you're unsure who to contact, call us at +44 (0)1784 434 455, and we'll direct you to the right team.
For help with queries relating to halls accommodation including applying to live in halls, receiving and accepting accommodation offers, and billing.
Please note that this team supports student accommodation queries only.
Tel: +44 (0)1784 911695
Our phone lines are open at 10am-4pm UK time.
Email: studentaccommodation@royalholloway.ac.uk
The Admissions team deals with all undergraduate and postgraduate applications to the university, for UK, EU and international students.
If your query is regarding Student Fees or Accommodation please see the relevant sections on this page.
If you have made an application via an agent through our partner Study Group, you should not use these contact details to discuss your application.
You will need to speak to your agent or Study Group directly.
You can contact the team by phone, through the enquiry form or chat with us online to answer any questions you have about applying to study at Royal Holloway.
Tel: +44 (0)1784 414944
Our opening hours are Monday to Friday, 10am to 4pm.
Enquiry form: www.rhul.ac.uk/applicationquery
Email: sales-office@royalholloway.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)1784 443062
Email: maintenanceservices@royalholloway.ac.uk
Reputational Events Email: events@royalholloway.ac.uk Student Recruitment Events
For general queries about events for prospective students, Mon-Fri 9am-5pm
For taster day queries tasterdays@royalholloway.ac.uk
For guided and self-led campus tours campus-tours@royalholloway.ac.uk
For Postgraduate queries pgevents@royalholloway.ac.uk Graduation More information on graduation can be found on our intranet page Welcome to Graduation!
- Royal Holloway Student Intranet If your questions are not covered by the information on the intranet pages, students can use Ask Royal Holloway , our enquiry platform designed to help students get the answers to their questions.
Alumni Relations
Email: alumni@royalholloway.ac.uk
Development
Email: development@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: student-fees@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: finance-non-student-enquiries@rhul.ac.uk
Email: healthandsafetyoffice@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: recruitment@royalholloway.ac.uk or hroperations@rhul.ac.uk
HR Operations Tel: +44 (0)1784 276868
Recruitment Tel: +44 (0)1784 276869
Email: international@rhul.ac.uk
If you are an international student interested in studying here, please contact us using the following form: www.rhul.ac.uk/applicationquery
For International Student Support, email InternationalAdvice@royalholloway.ac.uk
For current students and staff only
Tel: +44 (0)1784 414321
Email: itservicedesk@royalholloway.ac.uk
The University’s address for service of legal documents is: legal@rhul.ac.uk
We only accept service of legal documents via email.
Email: library@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: MarketingandCommunications@royalholloway.ac.uk
Find out more about parking at our Egham campus .
Tel: +44 (0)1784 911654
Email: press@royalholloway.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)1784 276429
Email: pam.kaur@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: procurement@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: knowledgeexchange@rhul.ac.uk
In an emergency: Security can be contacted by dialling 444 from any internal phone or +44 (0)1784 443888 from an external line.
In person: Campus Security is located in Founder’s East room 39.
General enquiries: +44(0)1784 443063
Email: securityRHUL@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: alison.wallis@royalholloway.ac.uk
The Student Services Centre can help with queries relating to enrolment, documents for current and former students, Student ID cards, exams and assessments, results and graduation.
If you are a current student, the easiest way to contact us is via Ask Royal Holloway .
Our portal has hundreds of articles covering all aspects of student life.
If you can’t find what you are looking for, you can contact us by using the 'Ask a Question' button at the bottom of our help pages and your query will be directed to the right team.
The Student Services Centre opening hours throughout August (Monday 4 August - Friday 29 August 2025) are as follows:
Phone ( +44 (0)1784 276641 ): Monday to Friday, 10am-12pm and 2-4pm
Email and Ask Royal Holloway enquiries: Monday to Friday, 9am-5pm
In-person: Emily Wilding Davison Building (Ground Floor), Monday to Friday, 2-4pm
Any general enquiries should be emailed to students.union@su.rhul.ac.uk .
For specific departmental enquiries, please visit the contact pages on the relevant departmental homepages.
Email: MN-UG-Office@rhul.ac.uk or MN-PG-Office@rhul.ac.uk
Email: EPMS-school@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: Humanities-school@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: LSS-school@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: LSE-school@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: PDA-school@royalholloway.ac.uk
Email: Doctoralschool@royalholloway.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/events:
Events
View recordings of selected past events.
Royal Holloway operates a permit parking system on our campus.
While we encourage the use of public transport where possible, parking is unrestricted for all guests attending events listed below in car park 4 or 12.
Parking spaces are not guaranteed and availability can be especially limited between 8am and 5pm.
There are Blue Badge designated spaces on campus.
Please see information on parking for details.
Come and explore our spectacular Grade I listed Founder's Building, Picture Gallery, Chapel and extensive grounds.
Join us for a day of free talks and tours including fun activities for children.
Test Einstein’s gravity, reveal gravitational waves from supermassive black holes, share results from South Africa’s MeerKAT and preview the Square Kilometre Array.
Revd Richard Price, Professor Emeritus of the History of Christianity, Heythrop College, University of London will deliver this year's Hellenic Lecture.
This lecture explores the real-world implications of AI—beyond the hype and into the grounded realities of how it's reshaping our work, education, and societal expectations.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/the-library:
The library
Our extensive library has more than 450,000 books and over 500,000 ebooks, as well as a vast array of academic journals.
In addition to this main collection, we have a number of rare and valuable items, archival works, internal publications, and major subject databases.
Students and staff can access our digital materials from wherever they are, on any device.
The Library space offers a variety of study seats, with different zones for silent and collaborative work.
Our dedicated team are continually developing new and improved ways to support you throughout your learning journey.
We place a high priority on listening to and working with you to remain valuable, responsive and relevant.
Search our:
Contact us via our Live Chat service (10am - 9pm daily) or email us at library@rhul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-history:
Our history - your future
At Royal Holloway, we’re proud of our history.
Brave from the beginning, we were founded over 170 years ago by two Victorian social pioneers who wanted to make a difference.
Royal Holloway is formed from two colleges, Bedford College, founded by Elizabeth Jesser Reid and Royal Holloway College, founded by Thomas and Jane Holloway .
These colleges were among the first places in Britain where women could access higher education, so our rich history is deeply rooted in providing equity in opportunity, transforming lives through education and creating positive change.
Bedford College in central London opened its doors in 1849.
It was the first higher education college in the UK for women and counts the novelist George Eliot and the first female doctor, Dr Elizabeth Blackwell, among its early students.
In 1886, Royal Holloway College in Surrey was opened by Queen Victoria .
By 1900, the colleges became part of the University of London, later merging in 1985 to form what is now Royal Holloway.
Our history of championing social change and inclusion underpins everything we do today.
Fast forward to the present day, Royal Holloway is ranked 34th in the UK, according to The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
We’re proud of opening up university education to those who dared to step outside what society laid out for them and asking the tough questions.
As a University of Social Purpose, o ur dedication to inclusive education and impactful research allows us to empower our global community of students, colleagues and partners to make a real difference in the world.
Guided by our history, we’re working to build a better future.
Driving positive change for what matters - for our students, society and the world.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/art-collections-and-archives:
Art Collections, Archives and Exhibitions
Welcome to Royal Holloway and Bedford New University archives, art collections and exhibitions.
The University archives and art collections are cared for by our Culture Team, who also manage the Exhibition Space in the Davison Building.
Our stunning Grade 1 listed Picture Gallery houses the Thomas Holloway collection of Victorian paintings, and we hold temporary exhibitions in a dedicated space in the Davison Building.
The University's art collection includes world-class paintings, sculptures, prints, drawings and watercolours including works by William Powell Frith, John Everett Millais and Edward Burne-Jones.
Recent additions to the collection include works by Augustus John and Graham Sutherland.
Explore our webpages to discover the collections and how to visit.
Discover the historic Picture Gallery
Search the archives
Discover the art collections
The Exhibition Space at Royal Holloway
All the information you'll need to plan a visit to the collection.
Find out about cultural services and how to get involved
Discover the latest news and views from our archives and art collections.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/equality-diversity-and-inclusion:
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Royal Holloway is committed to principles of equity and inclusion and strives to go beyond the Public Sector Equality Duty placed upon us by the Equality Act 2010.
We believe that all colleagues, students and visitors should find the University to be a supportive, inclusive and nurturing environment that embraces and celebrates diversity in all its forms.
Our central EDI team is based in HR and supports all Equality, Diversity & Inclusion initiatives across the University.
Find out more about the work that the team have been doing on the pages below.
You can email our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion team if you have any queries relating to EDI at Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni:
Our alumni
Whatever you are doing, wherever you are in the world Royal Holloway is here to support you.
Find out everything you need to know about being a recent graduate and make the most of your alumni community!
Find out more about and get involved with anniversary celebrations at rhul.ac.uk/bedford175
Thanks to the generous support of our alumni community, we are levelling the playing field for would-be students from all backgrounds.
From inspirational business leaders and best-selling authors, to sporting champions, ground-breaking entrepreneurs and more.
Our alumni are doing some amazing things.
There’s no need to leave Royal Holloway behind after you’ve graduated
We recognise outstanding contributions to education with honorary fellowships and degrees every year.
Royal Holloway College and Bedford College were originally founded to give women access to higher education.
By getting involved in the alumni network, and supporting current students, we can help each other
Join us for alumni events and reunions in the UK and abroad
We’re here to support you even after you’ve left Royal Holloway.
Read the latest news for alumni and supporters

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/recruiting-our-students:
Careers Service
Royal Holloway is one of the top research-led institutions in the UK and the world, with six schools: Business & Management, Engineering Physical & Mathematical Sciences, Humanities, Law & Social Sciences, Life Sciences & the Environment, Performing & Digital Arts
Our Careers Service can help you find exactly the right talent for your organisation, and we are always keen to engage with employers and alumni who are looking to support and recruit our students and recent graduates.
Participate in our Employer Engagement Events Programme
If you would like to enquire about opportunities to meet and recruit our students and graduates, please email employers@royalholloway.ac.uk for more details.
If you would like to advertise a vacancy for any of the following, you can register on our Careers Portal and upload it free of charge:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability:
Environmental sustainability at Royal Holloway
Welcome!
We declared a climate emergency in 2019 and our University strategy, RH2030s , commits us to embedding environmental sustainability across everything we do.
We will be one of London’s most sustainable universities, embedding environmental sustainability in all aspects of our operations.
We will empower our community through research, education and partnerships to mitigate climate and biodiversity crises and reduce our environmental footprint.
We will empower our students, colleagues, and partners to be environmental game-changers, drawing on our creative strengths and leveraging the decarbonisation of our estate.
Our objectives are to:
Our response also includes an ambitious target to achieve Net Zero carbon for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by no later than 2050.
Please explore our Environmental Sustainability web pages to find out more about our progress and the people who lead our work.
Discover how Royal Holloway's Environmental Sustainability Working Group drives strategy implementation across our operations and schools.
Explore our green initiatives, energy efficiency, and decarbonisation at Royal Holloway.
Explore sustainability at Royal Holloway through research, partnerships, and expert-led courses.
Uncover our campus biodiversity and academic engagement in our 135-acre parkland, ideal for studies in life sciences, ecology, conservation, performing arts, and more.
Discover our commitment to responsible investment, shaping a sustainable future.
Royal Holloway has been home to peregrine falcons for many years, but this is the first time we have live streamed their activity.
Royal Holloway is committed to supporting, promoting and improving the understanding of Fairtrade to provide a positive impact.
Uncover our collective efforts towards a greener future.
Explore our plans, reports, and resources for deeper insight into our sustainability efforts.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/global-engagement-and-partnerships:
Global Engagement and Partnerships
At Royal Holloway, we believe in fostering meaningful international partnerships.
Our commitment to international collaboration is at the heart of our mission to cultivate a global community of scholars, innovators, and leaders.
Through our comprehensive International Strategy, we strive to create opportunities for cross-cultural exchange, research collaboration, and educational partnerships that enrich the academic experience for our students and staff.
Whether it's forging connections with leading institutions around the world or engaging in impactful research initiatives, Royal Holloway, University of London is dedicated to making a difference on a global scale.
Our current portfolio of partner universities is diverse and spans across various countries.
We are proud to collaborate with prestigious institutions such as the University of California, the University of Toronto, Yale University, and Korea University as our exchange partners, Communications University and Minzu University in China for our Double Degree programmes, and the University of London for the distance learning programmes.
We are also proud to work with Study Group as our strategic recruitment partner.
Please follow the links below to find out more about our partnerships.
We are looking to partner with like-minded institutions and organisations around the world, who are supportive of our values of equality and social justice and share our commitment to transform lives through education.
For any partnerships enquiries please contact us at globalpartnerships@rhul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/university-of-sanctuary:
University of Sanctuary
At Royal Holloway, we are committed to the RH2030s strategy, which marks a significant milestone in our journey as a University of Social Purpose.
The strategy prepares us for future challenges, helping us to develop the university's culture of welcome as a place of safety, solidarity and empowerment for people seeking sanctuary.
Our vision is to be a forward-thinking University, committed to enabling outstanding educational student experience; research and innovation; and local and global engagement with partners to drive social change for a better, more inclusive future.
In June 2025, we were delighted to be recognised as a University of Sanctuary .
We extend a safe haven to displaced students and academics, as well as supporting local refugee communities and support organisations through collaborative projects and student volunteering.
We take an active role in research and teaching about refugee and forced migration issues, including learning about the issues and obstacles faced by people seeking sanctuary in pursuing higher education.
Royal Holloway has a deep-rooted history of standing with those in need, a tradition that continues today as we confront the challenges faced by millions displaced by war, persecution, climate change, or the violation of their fundamental rights.
We are working hard to ensure that we focus on ground-breaking research to educate the world as well as providing funding to support scholarships for students that would not otherwise be able to study.
Through our Sanctuary Scholarships , we provide not only safety but also the opportunity for these individuals to rebuild their lives and continue their pursuit of knowledge.
This commitment is more than an extension of our legacy; it is a testament to the enduring values that define Royal Holloway - a university dedicated to making a difference in the world, one life at a time.
If you wish to support our Sanctuary Scholarships, you can make a donation here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more:
More
We take pride in the transparency and openness of our university.
Here you’ll find useful information on everything from our governance and strategy to financial results and media contacts.
Contacts and details for media enquiries.
Search vacant roles at Royal Holloway
Collaboration, research, recruitment and incubation opportunities for businesses.
Information from the University is released for many reasons and to many people on a daily basis.
Royal Holloway is a stunning conference and wedding venue 1.0.0.19
Royal Holloway is a stunning conference and wedding venue
Information on how to get into contact with us at Royal Holloway.
It’s not only our university community that is important to us, but our relationship with the wider community
How to buy all things Royal Holloway, from gifts and books to event tickets
Here you can find our addresses and some handy links to Google Maps.
We're one of the top sporting colleges of the University of London with more than 80 sports teams and fantastic facilities.
Find out more about our Technician Commitment Action Plan.
This landmark initiative makes a public declaration of our shared commitment to working together in the interests of the wider Surrey community.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/media:
Media enquiries
Our PR team is here to handle media enquiries and help news broadcasters arrange filming or live broadcasts.
We have hundreds of expert academics who are available to contribute their views.
To interview one of our academics please contact the PR and Media team.
To contact our PR and Media Team, please email press@royalholloway.ac.uk or call 01784 911654
Head of External Communications
PR and Media Manager
External Communications Officer

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/jobs:
Jobs
Through world-class research, the dedication of our teachers and the feel of the Royal Holloway experience, ours is a community that inspires individuals to succeed academically, socially and personally.
The university was founded by two social reformers who pioneered the ideal of education and knowledge for all who could benefit.
Their vision lives on today.
As one of the UK’s leading research intensive universities we are home to some of the world’s foremost authorities in the sciences, arts, business, economics and law.
We are strengthened by diversity, and welcome students and academics who travel from all over the world to study and work here, ensuring an international and multi-cultural perspective within a close knit and historic campus.
Browse our jobs site for vacancies at Royal Holloway

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/facts-and-figures:
Facts and figures
Discover key facts about Royal Holloway.
(Figures shown are full-time equivalent.
Excludes Writing-up PhD students.
Please note these numbers do not include students starting a course with us in January 2025.
The above figures will be updated accordingly in February.)
See Financial information for details of where our money comes from and how we spend it and our overall economic impact.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance:
Senior Leadership Team and governance
Our governance structures bring together colleagues and experts from outside of Royal Holloway to oversee our strategy and direction, and ensure we comply with our statutory duties.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/our-strategy:
Our RH2030s strategy
Our RH2030s strategy prepares us for future challenges and exciting opportunities, allowing us to make a greater positive impact on the individuals and  communities we serve.
Our RH2030s mark a significant milestone in the journey of Royal Holloway as a University of Social Purpose.
The development of our vision and strategy has been the result of a meaningful co-creation with our valued students, colleagues, and external partners – a true testament to our University community.
RH2030s outlines what we aspire to achieve in the next decade and how we will respond to global challenges, building on the incredible platform of outstanding research, education, and civic and global engagement that is already taking place at Royal Holloway in the context of an ever-changing world.
Royal Holloway has a proud history of being at the forefront of social change, equality, and inclusion.
Our RH2030s strategy aims to carry this ethos forward, helping us take advantage of emerging opportunities to make a greater positive impact on society.
To be a forward-thinking University of Social Purpose: committed to enabling outstanding educational and student experience; research and innovation; and local and global engagement with partners to drive social change for a better, more inclusive future.
We are a values-led organisation, with a clear sense of who we are and what we stand for.
Our values guide us in being a University of Social Purpose in all we do.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/online-shops:
Online shops
How to buy all things Royal Holloway, from gifts and books to tickets for an event.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/how-to-find-us:
How to find us
Here you can find our addresses and some handy links to Google Maps
We have a best-of-both-worlds location; a safe, leafy campus in Egham, Surrey - 40 minutes by train from central London and just seven miles from Heathrow Airport, with excellent road and transport links.
Royal Holloway, University of London Egham Hill Egham Surrey TW20 0EX
If you intend to travel to our Egham campus by car, please read our parking information .
Our Visitors’ Information Centre is here to help and is located in the central entrance of Founder’s Building, opposite the Emily Wilding Davison Building.
For any assistance, please be aware that we are open Monday to Friday, 8.45am-4.45pm.
Royal Holloway has a Central London campus in Bedford Square, as well as Stewart House and Senate House.
11 Bedford Square London WC1B 3RF
This Georgian townhouse is used as a venue for teaching and postgraduate activities, within a two minute walk of the British Museum, Stewart House and the University of London's Senate House.
The nearest tube stations are Euston Square, Goodge Street, Russell Square, and Tottenham Court Road – all within about five minutes’ walk.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/financial-information:
Financial information
Our recent financial statements
Our recent financial statements can be downloaded here.
Each statement includes a report by our Auditors and the following wording is at their request.
"Financial statements are published on the University's website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the company’s website is the responsibility of the Council.
The University Council's responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein."
This covers costs incurred by academic departments including employing academics, departmental support staff and departmental operating costs.
This relates to money spent on providing student support services including, for example, the grant to support the Students’ Union, sports facilities, the careers service, health centre and bus service.
This also relates to money spent on scholarships and bursaries awarded to students across the University.
Examples of recruitment costs are the running of applicant visit days and the employment of the student admissions team.
This is expenditure incurred in providing the residence, catering and any conference operations, including the cost of maintenance of residential and catering premises, salaries and any other identifiable costs relating to these operations.
This is expenditure incurred on centralised academic services such as the library, learning resource centres, central computers, etc.
These are direct costs attributed to research grants and contracts.
This is expenditure incurred on central administration, staff and student facilities and amenities.
It also includes general operating expenditure on items like office supplies, hospitality, conferences and telephones.
These are direct costs attributed to other services used by the University and any expenditure not already covered.
These funds represent fees charged to students for the programme they are undertaking.
Different fees are charged depending on the level of study, subject and residency.
However, the fee that a university can charge to an undergraduate who is classified as a home student, is capped by government policy.
This income represents funding received from various research councils and other external funding bodies.
The OfS distributes public money for higher education to universities and colleges in England.
The OfS funding supports:
The amount we receive for teaching is determined by the numbers and types of students that are enrolled with us.
However, OfS grants to the universities do not fully meet their costs: they make only a contribution towards teaching.
Research funding is currently provided by Research England, who support universities to achieve quality research and knowledge exchange through annual funding based on the 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF) which reviews the quality of our work.
Universities can also apply for competitive funding, which is applied for and awarded on a one-off basis.
This income represents money from residences, catering, conferences and other services that the University offers to students, staff and the public.
This mainly represents income generated from the investment of money or other financial assets that have been bestowed on the University.
This includes any trusts and foundations.
This covers costs incurred by various central administration teams including Finance, Legal, Human Resources, the Principal's Office and Strategic Planning.
These teams play a key role in ensuring the effective organisation and management of the University.
This includes teaching and seminar space and the maintenance of the campus (e.g.
cleaning, utilities, security).
This includes expenditure on IT and Audio Visual systems, equipment, and staff who can support students and colleagues in using them.
This includes the library staff as well as the learning resources (i.e.
books & periodicals).
This includes the student help desk and the School administration teams.
This includes Student Advisory & Wellbeing, Careers, Student Engagement and Sport.
These teams play a key role in supporting all students during their time at the University.
This is a grant given by the University to the Students’ Union to support their activities.
This includes staff costs in academic departments (e.g.
lecturers and professors) and running costs of Schools.
This includes our centrally funded student scholarships, awards and bursaries.
Further information on our bursaries and scholarships can be found here.
This includes costs involved in curriculum development, review and learning technology.
These areas play a key role in ensuring high quality and standards at the University.
This includes general marketing costs, including advertising and campaigns.
This includes student recruitment and activities to widen access and participation.
For further information about our widening access initiatives please visit .
Royal Holloway, University of London is fully committed to responsible investment.
For us, this means managing environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities for our investments and using our influence to encourage better practices within companies we invest in, and investing in business delivering new, sustainable products and services.
Find out more here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/local-community:
Local community
Our relationship with our wider community is important to us.
We’re fortunate to be located between the two historic destinations of Englefield Green and Egham and we’ve been contributing to the local area since 1886.
The village and town are home to many of our staff and students and we value the ties we have with community as a whole.
Our students bring many positives to the local area, from award-winning volunteering initiatives to creative community events.
We also support local businesses and organisations and key local activities.
We take being a good neighbour seriously; encouraging all students living or passing through the local community to follow our Be a good neighbour guidelines so that we are all working together to maintain a harmonious community.
The university works closely with Runnymede Borough Council, Environmental Health and Surrey Police.
If you have any community concerns, our joint leaflet explains what each organisation can tackle and how to make contact with the relevant authority.
We meet regularly with residents groups, councillors and businesses and our Community Matters newsletter shares university news together with updates on projects and community initiatives.
We are also committed to engaging and consulting with the local community about our plans to develop our historic estate .
As one of the UK’s leading universities Royal Holloway makes a significant contribution to the local economy .
Surrey County Council, in partnership with Surrey’s three leading universities – Royal Holloway, University of London; University for the Creative Arts; and the University of Surrey - have now aligned with a new Civic Agreement for Surrey .
We welcome the local community to enjoy our 135 acre campus and take part in the wide variety of events and activities on offer, from family days out to regular free concerts and performances.
Find out about events.
Timetables for the Diamond Buses service, run in partnership with Royal Holloway, can be found here.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/legal-advice-centre:
Legal Advice Centre - Free legal advice
We provide free initial advice and information to the public in the following legal areas:
Please note that we provide initial advice only and do not handle casework or provide representation.
Additionally, we do not accept urgent or complex cases.
Availability of sessions and booking information Appointments are typically scheduled on Wednesdays, 10.30 am – 4.30 pm during our university term time.
See availability below.
Thank you for your interest in making an appointment.
Unfortunately, we are no longer accepting new clients for this academic year, as our Legal Advice Centre will be closed during the student examination period and over the summer holiday.
We will resume operations in the next academic year, with appointments available from September 2025.
If your matter remains unresolved, we encourage you to get in touch via our online enquiry form in September when we expect to be fully operational.
Thank you for your patience, and we look forward to assisting you in the new academic year.
To request an appointment, please complete our enquiry form .
A group of Student Advisors along with the Supervising Solicitor will be present during your appointment.
Our Student Advisors will take your instructions to gain a comprehensive understanding of your case.
Please note that advice will not be provided during this initial appointment.
Following your appointment, our team will review your matter.
If your matter is suitable for our assistance, we aim to provide you with written advice within four weeks of your appointment.
In certain situations, we may offer a second appointment to explain the written advice provided to you.
If we are unable to provide you with written advice, we may refer you to one of our partner law firms for initial free telephone consultation.
We will obtain your written authority before referring your matter.
There are certain circumstances where we may not be able to advise you.
These include:
If, for any reasons, we cannot advise you or refer you to our partner law firms, we will let you know and offer relevant referral sources to assist you further.
In order to effectively address your inquiry, we might require certain personal information from you to assess the feasibility of providing assistance and to identify any potential conflicts of interest.
Your personal information is collected, processed, and utilised in adherence with data protection laws.
Please note that if you do not provide us with certain essential personal information, we may not be able to conduct essential checks, and this could mean we cannot assist you.
For detailed information on how we manage the data you provide, we encourage you to review our privacy notice .
This notice outlines how we manage and safeguard the information you share with us, ensuring your privacy and data security are maintained.
What is Street Law?
Street Law is an educational initiative designed to make legal knowledge accessible to the general public.
It involves students teaching practical legal topics to community members through interactive sessions, workshops, and presentations.
The goal of Street Law is to help people understand their legal rights and responsibilities, navigate everyday legal issues, and engage with the legal system effectively.
By bringing legal education to schools, charities, community centres, and other public spaces, Street Law aims to demystify the legal system and empower individuals with the knowledge they need to address legal challenges in their lives.
We are always seeking to collaborate with community groups.
If you are interested in having our students provide a Street Law session for your community, please contact us .
Why should students get involved in Street Law?
Participating in Street Law provides students with hands-on experience by applying their legal studies in real-world contexts, effectively bridging the gap between theory and practice.
It enhances crucial skills such as public speaking and teaching while allowing students to make a meaningful impact by educating community members about their legal rights and responsibilities.
Involvement offers valuable insights into the diverse ways the law affects different groups, helps build professional networks, and instils a strong sense of social responsibility.
We recruit for the Street Law programme at the beginning of each academic year.
For more details, please visit the website around September.
Our Legal Advice Centre has the following professional partnerships, and is grateful for the support and assistance it receives:
We are grateful to our Patron, David Head, Duncan Lewis Solicitors , who provides his time and assistance to us.
Royal Holloway, University of London
Legal Advice Centre
Department of Law and Criminology, School of Law and Social Sciences
Egham Hill
Egham
TW20 0EX
Email: LAC@royalholloway.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/prospectuses-and-brochures:
Prospectuses and brochures
We’ve reduced the amount of information we print as part of our ongoing commitment to lessening our impact on the environment.
Our online prospectuses are packed with information and videos about life at Royal Holloway.
If you want to view an online version of our printed information, simply fill out either of the forms below to download our undergraduate or postgraduate prospectus in Adobe PDF format.
Download PDF
Sometimes we need to make changes to what we offer, such as the content and delivery of our academic courses, after the prospectus is published.
We advise you to check our prospectus updates page before making an application.
The departmental brochures listed below provide information for prospective applicants about programmes of study at Royal Holloway.
All brochures can be downloaded in Adobe PDF format.
Please note these are not available in all postgraduate areas; in this case you will be directed to the relevant department's webpage.
Comparative Literature and Culture
Modern Languages
Philosophy
Social Science BSc
Biological Sciences (webpage)
Classics (webpage)
Computer Science (webpage)
Drama (webpage)
Earth Sciences (webpage)
Economics (webpage)
Electronic Engineering (webpage)
English (webpage)
Geography (webpage)
Health Studies (webpage)
Information Security (MSc) (webpage)
Law (webpage)
Mathematics (webpage)
Media Arts (webpage)
Music (webpage)
Physics (webpage)
Politics & International Relations (webpage)
Philosophy (webpage)
Psychology (webpage)
Social Work: Professional Doctorate
Social Work: MSc Social Work

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/clearing:
Clearing 2025
Call us on +44 (0)1784 772455
Please note that courses and/or expected grades can change throughout Clearing.
Tuesday 26 - Friday 29 August: 10am - 4pm
Once your place at Royal Holloway is confirmed, you'll be able to apply for accommodation (subject to availability).
It can take up to 24 hours after your place has been confirmed before you're able to apply for halls of residence.
Find out more
Royal Holloway is ideal for travelling to and from if you live in London or the South East of England.
We have lots of ways to make travelling and learning flexible, easy and cost-effective.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/clearing/clearing-vacancies:
Clearing vacancies
Select your home status:
Hotline opening times:
Tuesday 26 - Friday 29 August, 10am - 4pm
Please note course availability and asking grades may change during, or after A-level results day.
Call: +44 (0)1784 772455
A-levels: DDD
with D in Biology
DDD
A-levels: DEE
with E in Biology
DEE
A-levels: EEE
with EEE
EEE
A-levels: CDE
with C in Latin or Greek at AS or A Level or GCSE A in Latin or Greek
CDE
with C in Greek at AS or A Level or GCSE A in Greek
with C in Latin at AS or A Level or GCSE A in Latin
with C in an essay based subject or CCD with CC in essay based subjects
with D in an Essay based subject
A-levels: CDD
with 6 in GCSE Maths and C in Maths or Physics or Computing at A Level
CCD
CDD
5 years full time
with 5 in GCSE Maths and D in Maths or Physics or Computing at A Level
with C in Maths
A-levels: BDE
with B in an essay based subject
BDE
with D in an essay based subject
A-levels: CCD
with C in A Level Music
with D in either Physics/Maths/Chem/Biol/Geol/Geog/Comp Sci/Psych/Environmental Sci
with C in either Physics/Maths/Chem/Biol/Geol/Geog/Comp Sci/Psych/Environmental Sci
with 5 in GCSE Maths
with C in A Level Maths
with B in A Level Maths
with B in A level Maths
with D in A Level Maths
with D in an essay based subject or CCD with CC in essay based subjects
with B in an Essay based subject
with C in an essay based subject, D in A Level Music and ABRSM Practical/Performance grade 7 or equivalent
with C in A level Music and ABRSM grade 7
For degrees with Modern Languages you will need to tell us which language(s) you want to study, choosing from French, German, Italian and Spanish.
The number and combination of languages you may choose will depend on your current level of proficiency and the degree course chosen.
with C in an essay based subject
with C in an essay based subject C in A level Music and ABRSM Practical/Performance grade 7 or equivalent
with D in an Essay based subject and C in Music and ABRSM Practical grade 7 or equivalent
A-levels: CCC
CCC
with B in A Level Maths and D in A Level Physics
A-levels: BCE
with B in A Level Maths and C in A Level Music and ABRSM Practical grade 7 or equivalent
BCE
with D in A Level Music
with C in A Level Music and ABRSM Practical/Performance grade 7 or equivalent
with C in A Level Music, D in A Level Maths and Physics and ABRSM Practical grade 7 or equivalent
A-levels: DDE
with D in A Level Maths and D in A Level Physics
DDE
with B in Maths and D in Physics

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/postgraduate/how-to-apply:
How to apply
The application deadline for postgraduate programmes starting in September 2025 is 29 August 2025 for home applicants.
The overseas deadline (20 August 2025) has now passed.
We also offer a January 2026 start for selected courses.
The application deadline for this intake is 8 December 2025.
Scholarship deadlines are usually different, so please check our scholarship pages for individual deadlines.
To create an application for one of our postgraduate programmes please click the button below.
Please follow the instructions on Royal Holloway Applicant Portal and be sure to provide the following documentation in support of your application.
Submitting an application without the following will result in a delayed outcome:
Please note that you must submit your initial application in order to proceed to the next stage to upload your documents.
You will be able to upload your documents on the Supplemental Items page on your Applicant Portal.
Before you start, take a look at the entry requirements for your chosen postgraduate course using our Coursefinder .
Admissions office: +44 (0)1784 414944
Admissions Enquiry Form
Chat with us

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway/online-open-day-september-2025:
Online Open Day
This event is aimed towards those at the start of their university journey who want to find out more about undergraduate (for instance BA, BSc) courses at Royal Holloway, but you'll still find it useful if you've already applied to study with us.
If you’ve applied to study with us, please give your Student ID.
By giving your phone number you are agreeing to receiving a reminder SMS on the day of the event
If you have any problems with your booking or have any questions, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/royal-holloway-recognised-as-a-university-of-sanctuary:
Royal Holloway recognised as a University of Sanctuary
Universities of Sanctuary represent a national network of university students and staff working to make Higher Education institutions places of safety, solidarity and empowerment for people seeking sanctuary.
Royal Holloway, University of London has been recognised as a University of Sanctuary.
Royal Holloway, University of London has been recognised as a University of Sanctuary: a testament to consistent, collaborative and innovative work by colleagues and students to welcome and support those seeking sanctuary.
This formal acknowledgement, from Universities of Sanctuary , is the culmination of significant work over time to extend a safe haven to displaced students and academics as well as supporting local refugee communities and support organisations through collaborative projects and student volunteering.
Universities of Sanctuary particularly commended Royal Holloway for the range and depth of research and learning activity related to migration being undertaken, the place of sanctuary work in its civic and community initiatives, and the engagement of students in enabling and extending this work in collaboration with colleagues.
Vice-Chancellor and Principal Professor Julie Sanders said:
“We are so proud that the brilliant work and dedication of our community to offering the warmest possible welcome to those seeking sanctuary here has been recognised by Universities of Sanctuary.
We are absolutely committed to opening up the transformative opportunities of higher education to all, and this shows how much we can achieve by working together across Royal Holloway and with our wider communities.
I very much look forward to extending this work over time.”
Kehinde Ojo, Royal Holloway’s first Sanctuary scholarship recipient and now an Honorary Fellow of the University, said:
"I am thrilled that Royal Holloway has been recognised as a University of Sanctuary.
This honour reflects the University’s deep commitment to welcoming refugees and asylum seekers, and to providing student-centred support that creates lasting, positive impact.
“Since launching its first Sanctuary Scholarship, Royal Holloway has consistently listened to and learned from its students, ensuring their experiences shape and improve the support offered.
More than just a place to study, it is a community full of care and dedication, that is genuinely invested in each student’s journey.”
Universities of Sanctuary is an initiative to recognise and celebrate the good practice of universities welcoming people seeking sanctuary through facilitated access to Higher Education, supporting local refugee communities, and taking an active role in learning about the issues and obstacles faced by this group in pursuing HE.
Developing our work as a University of Sanctuary directly aligns with our strategic vision as a University of Social Purpose, and our ambition to be civic-minded and globally engaged.
It also continues our historic tradition of breaking down barriers to higher education to drive social change.
More information on our role as a University of Sanctuary is available here .
Dr Jan Knapp has been honoured with a prestigious award for his breakthrough research conducted during his time at the University.
Royal Holloway has been officially recognised as a Bronze Carbon Literate Educator, marking a significant step in its mission to embed climate awareness and action into everyday university life.
Research by Royal Holloway found people with a varied social life mentally put their daily experiences into small ‘events’, compared to more isolated people who see their world as one-long stretch.
Findings from the first study to examine how touch-and-feel pages affect infants’ learning of the words in first-words picture books, have been released by academics at Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/donate-now:
Donate now
Whether you choose to make a regular gift or a single donation, you will make a real difference and enable us to support even more students during these extraordinary times.
Please complete the secure form below.
If you would like to make a single donation please use the link in the sidebar.
If you are a US taxpayer , you can make a tax-effective donation through our partners.
Please use the link in the side bar.
The College is an exempt charity in accordance with Schedule 2 of the Charities Act 1993 and therefore has full charitable status.
The Reference Number with the charities section of the Inland Revenue is XN69536.
Philanthropy@royalholloway.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni:
For alumni
As a graduate of Royal Holloway, University of London, you are part of a network of over 115,000 alumni worldwide.
The Alumni Engagement Team is here to help you stay up to date with the University and fellow graduates.
Whatever you are doing now, wherever you are in the world, stay connected and get involved!
To stay in touch, please update your details and communication preferences .
You can also connect with us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and LinkedIn .
Explore answers to frequently asked questions about alumni services and benefits
Donating to the college will help ensure its future and change lives
We are here to support you even after you have left Royal Holloway
Our alumni groups help you stay in touch with old connections and make new professional ones
Have a query?
Contact the Philanthropy and Alumni Relations Team.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/international-agents:
International agents
Welcome to Royal Holloway's web page for its approved agents.
To help you advise students and find key information quickly, we’ve put together a list of useful links.
If you are an education agent residing outside the United Kingdom, EU, EEA, Switzerland, United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, please submit applications for undergraduate and postgraduate degrees and courses via our trusted partner, Study Group.
Visit the agent portal
For international students who have applied via an agent through our trusted partner Study Group, deposit payment should be made via the Study Group portal.
For details of how to pay, please refer to offer letters or email studentpayments@studygroup.com for help.
Information on visas (applying for/renewing a visa, family visas, and restrictions on working etc) you can also contact our International Student Support office at internationaladvice@rhul.ac.uk .
For our contracted education agents, please get in touch with our trusted partner, Study Group.
For all other agents residing in the United Kingdom, EU, EEA, Switzerland, United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, please find a list of our current partners here .
At Royal Holloway we are dedicated to providing students with the best resources and guidance for their educational journey.
We understand that navigating the process of studying abroad can be challenging, and we are here to support you every step of the way.
As a signatory of the UK Agent Quality Framework, Royal Holloway follows its standards and best practices.
We are committed to working closely with agents to ensure they adhere to ethical standards and empower student choice.
Student Guide to Choosing an Education Agent
National Code of Ethical Practice for UK Education Agents
UK Agent Quality Framework Pledge

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/privacy-and-cookies:
Privacy and cookies
Your right to privacy is important to us.
The following terms are provided to explain how we collect and use information about you so that you can make an informed choice about using the Royal Holloway website.
Royal Holloway, University of London is keen to strike a fair balance between your personal privacy and ensuring that you obtain full value from the products and services it provides, while ensuring that it complies with the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018.
Personal data is not stored nor captured through the Website without the prior knowledge and consent of Users.
The UK GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2018 gives you a number of rights, including the right to know what personal information Royal Holloway, University of London holds about you and the right to access this information.
Please contact the University Secretary’s Office: dataprotection@royalholloway.ac.uk .
Read the University's data protection policy
The Royal Holloway website uses cookies, a small piece of information stored on your computer in the form of a file, to facilitate access to restricted areas and to monitor usage by tracking which URLs are accessed and the sequence in which they are accessed.
Most browsers accept cookies automatically, but you can alter the settings of your browser to erase cookies or prevent automatic acceptance if you prefer.
Usually you have the option to see what cookies you’ve got and delete them individually, block third party cookies or cookies from particular sites, accept all cookies, be notified when a cookie is issued or reject all cookies.
Visit the ‘options’ or ‘preferences’ menu on your browser to change settings, and check the following links for more browser-specific information.
View how to manage cookies in the most popular browsers below:
From royalholloway.ac.uk
Cookies: cookieconsent_status, online.open.day.video.viewed
Cookies that ensure the user is not repeatedly presented with content they have already seen, for example the cookie notification banner.
Unibuddy
From unibuddy.co
Cookies: mp_e9a59680aa5ae8a896c08d61ee24712a_mixpanel
We use the Unibuddy platform to provide prospective students with the opportunity to chat with our current students using instant messaging.
This is a functional cookie that is used to provide that experience.
Click4Assistance
From click4assistance.co.uk
We use live chat software on our website provided by Click4Assistance, a 3 rd party UK based software company.
Information regarding how the data is processed and stored can be viewed on the Click4Assistance website .
Cookies: _ga, _gat_UA-16957033-21, _gcl_au, _gid
These cookies are used to collect information about how visitors use our website.
We use the information to compile reports and to help us improve the website.
The cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the website, where visitors have come to the website from and the pages they visited.
Please see the Google website for more information on these cookies.
Google
From google.com and google.co.uk
Cookies: 1P_JAR, CONSENT, NID
Cookies set and used by Google to gather website statistics, record preferences such as preferred language ) and track conversion rates.
Doubleclick
From doubleclick.net
Cookies: IDE, test_cookie
Advertising cookies on non-Google sites stored in browsers under the domain doubleclick.net.
Please see the Google website regarding the usage of doubleclick cookies.
SilverPop
Cookies: com.silverpop.iMA.page_visit, com.silverpop.iMA.session, com.silverpop.iMAWebCookie
These cookies track a user’s journey through the site if they have accessed it from one of our marketing emails.
They allow us to identify whether the email marketing has been successful and of interest to the user and allow us to tailor our communications.
Twitter
From twitter.com
Cookies: Guest_id, personalization_id
This cookie is related to Twitter integration and social sharing.
Please see Twitter’s cookie policy for further information.
Facebook
From facebook.com and royalholloway.ac.uk
Cookies: Fr, _fbp, [blank cookie name]
This is used to track Royal Holloway advertising within Facebook.
Please see Facebook's cookie policy for further information.
YouTube
From youtube.com
Cookies: VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE, PREF, YSC, GPS
We embed videos from our official YouTube channel.
These videos use cookies in order to recall a person’s personal preferences.
To find out more regarding YouTube’s cookie policy, please see the Google cookies page (its parent company).
Akerolabs
From akerolabs.com
Cookies: __cfduid, __ak, __vuid-5ba1142101d8fcb609555ec4, __ak_visit, __ak_ct
We use Akerolabs to capture contact details of people that might be interested in finding out more about us.
These cookies are used to monitor the success of those campaigns.
Information regarding these cookies can be found on the Akerolabs cookie page .
Yahoo
From yahoo.com
Cookies: B
This cookie is used to collect anonymous data regarding the user's website visits, including the number of visits, what pages have been loaded and average time on the site.
The data is then used to categorise the users' interest and demographical profiles with the purpose of improving the website content.
Xandr
From adnxs.com
Cookies: XANDR_PANID, Anj, Receive-cookie-depreciation, Uuid2
These cookies are used to personalise and target advertising on 3rd party websites.
For more information please see the xandr cookies policy page .
Snapchat
From snapchat.com
Cookies: sc_at
This cookie is used to identify a visitor across multiple domains.
More information can be found on snapchats cookie page .
Continuous logs are kept of requests received by the Royal Holloway website’s web servers as it is accessed.
These logs are used to analyse usage of the Website.
Logs are maintained both by Royal Holloway and third parties contracted by Royal Holloway who specialise in monitoring and analysing website usage.
Royal Holloway also uses Google Analytics to analyse use of its website.
Each log entry includes the internet protocol (IP) address of the client used (typically, though not necessarily, the IP address of the personal computer used), the type of client used (typically, though not necessarily, the type and version of web browser used), the URL of the page (or object) requested, the URL of the previous page (or object) requested (known as the 'referrer' and could relate to this the Royal Holloway website or another), and the reference number stored in a cookie created by the Royal Holloway website (if one exists).
Royal Holloway logs additionally contain the username used to access restricted areas of its website.
This username is not collected by nor shared with third parties.
Royal Holloway is only able to link log entries to individuals where it holds personal data that can be associated with log entries using IP address, username, or reference number from cookies.
This is only possible in relation to users connected directly to the Royal Holloway, network (i.e.
using a Royal Holloway IP address) and users using a Royal Holloway account (i.e.
using a Royal Holloway username).
You are solely responsible in all respects for all use of and for protecting the confidentiality of any username and passwords that may be given to you or selected by you for use on the Royal Holloway website.
You may not share these with or transfer them to any third parties.
You must notify us immediately of any unauthorised use of them, or any other breach of security regarding the Royal Holloway website that comes to your attention.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/disclaimer:
Disclaimer
Royal Holloway, University of London does its best to ensure that all information on the Website is accurate.
If you find any inaccurate information on the Website please let Royal Holloway, University of London know by sending an email to webmaster@rhul.ac.uk and we will correct it, where we agree, as soon as practicable.
Royal Holloway, University of London gives no warranty or assurance about the content of the Website.
As the Website is under constant development its contents may be incorrect or out-of-date and are subject to change without notice.
While Royal Holloway, University of London makes every effort to ensure that the content of the Website is accurate, Royal Holloway, University of London cannot accept liability for the accuracy of all content at any given point in time.
Royal Holloway, University of London makes every effort to ensure that its computer infrastructure is error- and virus-free but does not warrant that any material available for downloading from the Website will be free from infection, viruses and/ or other code that has contaminating or destructive properties.
You are responsible for implementing sufficient procedures and virus checks (including anti-virus and other security checks) to satisfy your particular requirements for the accuracy of data input and output.
Neither Royal Holloway, University of London nor any of its agents, employees and sub-contractors shall be liable to you or any other party for any claim, loss, demand or damages whatsoever (whether such claims, loss, demands or damages were foreseeable, known or otherwise) arising out of or in connection with the use of the Website or information, content or materials included on the Website.
In no event shall Royal Holloway, University of London or any of its agents, employees or sub-contractors be liable to you for any indirect or consequential loss or damage including, without limitation, any:
and whether or not advised of the possibility of such claim, loss, demand or damages and arising in tort (including negligence), contract or otherwise, to the fullest extent permitted by law.
The Website provides hypertext links to other sites operated by other people.
Using such a link means you are leaving the Website.
Royal Holloway, University of London takes no responsibility for, and gives no warranties, endorsements, guarantees or representations in respect of, linked sites.
Royal Holloway, University of London is not responsible for the privacy practices, nor do we accept any liability in connection with the content of, such websites, including those of our group entities, which will in some cases have their own privacy policies tailored for the particular business practices and educational sectors in which they operate.
Any concerns regarding any external link should be directed to its website administrator or web master.
We are a distributor (and not a publisher) of content supplied by third parties and users of the internet.
Any opinions, advice, statements, services, offers, or other information or content expressed or made available by third parties, including information providers, or users, are those of the authors or distributors and not of us.
We do not necessarily endorse nor are we responsible for the accuracy or reliability of any opinion, advice or statement made on the Website.
The information on the Website is not intended to address your particular requirements.
Such information does not constitute any form of advice or recommendation by us and is not intended to be relied upon by you in making (or refraining from making) any specific educational, or other, decisions.
You should take your own advice and/ or make specific enquiries and independently verify any information before relying upon it.
If you make an arrangement with anyone named in or connected with the Website this is at your sole risk.
Nothing in this Agreement excludes or limits Royal Holloway, University of London's liability for:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/terms-and-conditions:
Terms and conditions
Please read the Terms of Use and privacy policy carefully.
They contain important information about your rights and obligations.
1.1 These terms and conditions of use ('Terms of Use') refer to the official website of “Royal Holloway, University of London”, 'our', 'we' or 'us'), which is accessible via the address http://www.rhul.ac.uk and its variations ('Website').
By using, or contributing to, the Website you ('User' or 'you') agree to these Terms of Use.
In particular, we draw your attention to clause 2 (Disclaimer and limitation of liability), clause 3 (Copyright and intellectual property rights) and clause 4 (Contributing to our Website).
You may print and keep a copy of these Terms of Use.
1.2 These Terms of Use and any web page-specific terms and conditions that may be shown on the Website from time to time, form the entire agreement between you and us ('Agreement').
If you do not agree to be legally bound by this Agreement please leave the Website immediately.
Your continued access and use of the Website will amount to acceptance of these Terms of Use.
1.3 Royal Holloway, University of London reserves a right to change the Agreement at any time.
You should review these Terms of Use on a regular basis to ensure that you are aware of any changes made as you will be legally bound by any amended terms if you continue to use the Website after the changes.
2.1 Royal Holloway, University of London does its best to ensure that all information on the Website is accurate.
If you find any inaccurate information on the Website please let Royal Holloway, University of London know by sending an email to digital@rhul.ac.uk and we will correct it, where we agree, as soon as practicable.
2.2 Royal Holloway, University of London gives no warranty or assurance about the content of the Website.
2.3 Royal Holloway, University of London makes every effort to ensure that its computer infrastructure is error- and virus-free but does not warrant that any material available for downloading from the Website will be free from infection, viruses and/ or other code that has contaminating or destructive properties.
2.4 Neither Royal Holloway, University of London nor any of its agents, employees and sub-contractors shall be liable to you or any other party for any claim, loss, demand or damages whatsoever (whether such claims, loss, demands or damages were foreseeable, known or otherwise) arising out of or in connection with the use of the Website or information, content or materials included on the Website.
2.5 In no event shall Royal Holloway, University of London or any of its agents, employees or sub-contractors be liable to you for any indirect or consequential loss or damage including, without limitation, any;
2.5.1 loss of actual or anticipated profits (including loss of profits on contracts);
2.5.2 loss of revenue;
2.5.3 loss of business;
2.5.4 loss of opportunity;
2.5.5 loss of anticipated savings;
2.5.6 loss of good will;
2.5.7 loss of reputation;
2.5.8 loss or damage to or corruption of data;
2.5.9 loss of use of money or otherwise,
2.6 The Website provides hypertext links to other sites operated by other people.
2.7 We are a distributor (and not a publisher) of content supplied by third parties and users of the internet.
2.8 The information on the Website is not intended to address your particular requirements.
2.9 If you make an arrangement with anyone named in or connected with the Website this is at your sole risk.
2.10 Nothing in this Agreement excludes or limits Royal Holloway, University of London's liability for:
2.10.1 death or personal injury caused by Royal Holloway, University of London's negligence; or
2.10.2 fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation; or
2.10.3 the tort of deceit; or
2.10.4 any other liability which may not be limited or excluded by law.
3.1 The Website contains copyright material, trade names and marks and other proprietary information, including, but not limited to, text, software, photos and graphics, and may in future include video, music and sound ('Content').
The Content is protected by copyright law, registered and unregistered trade marks, database rights and other intellectual property rights.
3.2 Royal Holloway, University of London, its licensors, or authorised contributors own the copyright, database right and other intellectual property rights in the selection, coordination, arrangement and enhancement of such Content, as well as in the Content original to it.
You may not modify, publish, transmit, participate in the transfer or sale of, create derivative works from, or in any way exploit, any of the Content, in whole or in part except as provided in these Terms of Use.
3.3 You may download information from the Website for your own personal use only.
Except as otherwise expressly permitted under copyright law, no copying, redistribution, retransmission, publication or commercial exploitation of downloaded material will be permitted without our express permission or that of the copyright owner.
In the event of any permitted copying, redistribution or publication of copyright material, no changes in or deletion of author attribution, trademark legend or copyright notice shall be made.
You acknowledge that you do not acquire any ownership rights by downloading copyright material.
4.1 Where you elect, or are invited, to submit any contribution or material to the Website (including any text, message board content, photographs, graphics, video, audio or logo) ('Contribution') or otherwise consent to the use of the Contribution, then by submitting the Contribution or consenting to its use, you grant Royal Holloway, University of London a perpetual, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, distribute, perform, play, make available to the public, and exercise all copyright and publicity rights with respect to your Contribution worldwide and/ or to incorporate your Contribution in other works in any media now known or later developed for the full term of any rights that may exist in your Contribution.
If you do not want to grant to Royal Holloway, University of London the rights set out above, please do not submit your Contribution to the Website.
The Royal Holloway, University of London shall have no liability to you for any misuse by any third party of any Contribution that is distributed by us through the Website or in respect of any infringement of the intellectual property rights in any Contribution by any third party.
4.2 By submitting your Contribution to the Website, you:
4.2.1 warrant and represent that your Contribution:
is your own original work and that you have the right to make it available to Royal Holloway, University of London for all the purposes specified above and that it does not breach or infringe anyone else's rights such as copyright or in is in any way illegal;
is not defamatory, libellous, obscene, menacing, threatening, offensive, abusive, fraudulent or criminal;
will not and does not contravene any relevant local, national or international law or incite or encourage the contravention of any such law;
is not related to the conduct of a business;
does not advertise or market anything in any way; and
is not otherwise offensive;
4.2.2 agree at all times to follow our message board rules of posting, which will be shown next to the message board;
4.2.3 agree to indemnify and keep Royal Holloway, University of London indemnified on demand against all legal fees, damages and other expenses that may be incurred by Royal Holloway, University of London as a result of your breach of the above warranty; and
4.2.4 agree to waive any moral rights in your Contribution for the purposes of its submission to and publication on the Website and the purposes specified above to the fullest extent permitted by law.
4.3 We reserve the right to identify you in response to a court order or threat of legal action.
4.4 If you see any information on the Website that breaches your or anyone else's rights or may be illegal, defamatory or otherwise should be removed, let us know immediately by e-mailing webmaster@rhul.ac.uk and, where we agree, we shall do our best to remove it as soon as possible.
4.5 We reserve the right to remove any Contribution from the Website (including any text, message board content, photographs, graphics, video, audio or logo) at any time and without notice and shall not be obliged to give a reason for doing so.
In the event that we remove any Contribution from the Website we shall in no way be liable for any loss, liability, cost or expense suffered by you as a result (whether direct or indirect) of such removal.
4.6 We reserve the right to edit, remove postings to message boards, delete or use electronic methods to block or filter any Contribution left on or sent to the Website at our discretion, including without limitation any message that contravenes any of these Terms of Use, but we do not have an obligation to do so.
4.7 You must indemnify (pay) us, and keep us indemnified, on demand for any losses we suffer if you breach this provision or any other provision of these Terms of Use or the message board rules of posting.
4.8 We expect many of those contributing to our message boards to have strong views about the matters discussed, but the Website is subject to the laws of libel and you and we could be sued if you are not careful in what you say.
You should not make libellous postings or any postings that are illegal or breach copyright, database or other related rights.
It is your responsibility to check this.
We do not accept any liability in this respect.
4.9 You must not misuse the Website by knowingly introducing viruses, trojans, worms, logic bombs or other material which is malicious or technologically harmful.
You must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to the Website, the server on which the Website is stored or any server, computer or database connected to the Website.
You must not attack the Website via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of service attack.
By breaching this provision, you would commit a criminal offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990.
We reserve the right to report any such breach to the relevant law enforcement authorities and in such an event we will co-operate with those authorities by disclosing your identity to them.
In the event of such a breach, your right to use the Website will cease immediately.
We will not be liable for any loss or damage caused by a distributed denial-of-service attack, viruses or other technologically harmful material that may infect your computer equipment, computer programs, data or other proprietary material due to your use of the Website or to your downloading of any material posted on it, or on any website linked to it.
4.10 Where we create a link from our Website to any website operated by you, we shall have the right to remove such link at any time without obtaining your prior consent.
In the event that we do remove a link from our Website to any website operated by you, we shall in no way be liable for any loss, liability, cost or expense suffered by you as a result (whether direct or indirect) of such removal, including, without limitation to the foregoing generality, where such loss, liability, cost or expense results from a loss of search engine positioning, ranking, placement or optimisation.
5.1 Your right to privacy is important to us.
The following terms are provided to explain how we collect and use information about you so that you can make an informed choice about using the Website.
5.2 Data protection
5.2.1 Royal Holloway, University of London is keen to strike a fair balance between your personal privacy and ensuring that you obtain full value from the products and services it provides, while ensuring that it complies with all protection the Data Protection Act 1998 ('the Act') affords to you.
Royal Holloway, University of London will hold and process your personal data securely in accordance with the Act, under which it is registered.
5.3 Collection and use of personal data
5.3.1 Personal data is not stored nor captured through the Website without the prior knowledge and consent of Users.
5.3.2 The Act gives you a number of rights, including the right to know what personal information Royal Holloway, University of London holds about you and the right to access this information.
Please contact the College Secretary’s Office or search the website for more information.
5.4 Cookies, and how we use them
5.4.1 This Website uses cookies, a small piece of information stored on your computer in the form of a file, to facilitate access to restricted areas and to monitor usage by tracking which URLs are accessed and the sequence in which they are accessed (see paragraph 5.5 - Log files for more information).
5.4.2 You can find out more about cookies, their use, and how you can remove them by going to the Interactive Advertising Bureau website All About Cookies or Cookiecentral.com.
You should note that if a User sets up his or her browser to reject the cookie, he or she may still use the Website, although functionality may be impaired.
5.5 Log files
5.5.1 Continuous logs are kept of requests received by the Website's web servers as it is accessed.
5.5.2 Logs are maintained both by Royal Holloway, University of London and third parties contracted by Royal Holloway, University of London - Nedstat and Google Inc.
("Google") - who specialise in monitoring and analysing website usage (see paragraphs 5.5.4 and 5.5.5 for more information).
We use Google Analytics to analyse use of the Website (see paragraph 5.5.5 below).
5.5.3 Each log entry includes the internet protocol (IP) address of the client used (typically, though not necessarily, the IP address of the personal computer (PC) used), the type of client used (typically, though not necessarily, the type and version of web browser used), the URL of the page (or object) requested, the URL of the previous page (or object) requested (known as the 'referrer' and could relate to this Website or another), and the reference number stored in a cookie created by the Website (if one exists).
Royal Holloway, University of London logs additionally contain the username used to access restricted areas of the Website.
This username is not collected by nor shared with Nedstat or Google Inc.
5.5.4 Nedstat may convert your IP address into anonymous statistical information but this will not affect your privacy.
5.5.5 Google Analytics uses "cookies", which are text files placed on your computer, to help the Royal Holloway, University of London analyse how users use the Website.
The information generated by the cookie about your use of the Website (including, without limitation, your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.
Subject to paragraph 5.5.6 below, this information will not include any information from which you will be identifiable.
Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the Website, compiling reports on Website activity for the Royal Holloway, University of London and providing other services relating to Website activity and internet usage.
Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf.
Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google.
By using this Website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.
If you would like to receive more information on Google Analytics, and the kind of information that they collect and process, we refer you to the Google Analytics website (see http://www.google.co.uk/analytics/en-GB/index.html) and its privacy policy on that website (see https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en )
5.5.6 Royal Holloway, University of London is only able to link log entries to individuals where it holds personal data that can be associated with log entries using IP address, username, or reference number from cookies.
This is only possible in relation to Users connected directly to the Royal Holloway, University of London network (ie using an Royal Holloway, University of London IP address) and Users using an Royal Holloway, University of London account (ie using an Royal Holloway, University of London username).
We will only use this information to identify you where we are required to by law or where we suspect that there has been a breach of the law or of these Terms of Use.
6.1 You are solely responsible in all respects for all use of and for protecting the confidentiality of any username and passwords that may be given to you or selected by you for use on our Website.
6.2 You must notify us immediately of any unauthorised use of them or any other breach of security regarding our Website that comes to your attention.
7.1 Royal Holloway, University of London seeks to ensure that people are treated equally regardless of age, disability, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, gender, religion, sexual orientation or personal circumstances.
Royal Holloway, University of London does its best to ensure that the Website is accessible to all its users and potential users, including but not limited to users with disabilities (eg visual impairments, cognitive impairments, motor impairments etc); users for whom English is a second language; users of various software; or any other users who may need to use the Website.
7.2 If you need any advice on making your web content and services accessible, please contact the webmaster.
7.3 Access to our Website is permitted on a temporary basis, and we reserve the right to withdraw or amend the service we provide on the Website without notice (see below).
We will not be liable if for any reason the Website is unavailable at any time or for any period.
7.4 From time to time, we may restrict access to some parts of the Website, or the entire Website, to users who are (as the case may be) students, Royal Holloway, University of London employees or who have registered with us.
8.1 The Agreement forms the whole agreement between you and us.
You acknowledge that you have not entered into this Agreement in reliance upon any warranty or representation made by us or any other person and you waive any rights to damages/ rescission you may have for misrepresentation (other than a fraudulent misrepresentation) that is not contained in this Agreement.
8.2 If any provision or term of these Terms of Use shall become or be declared illegal, invalid or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever, such term or provision shall be divisible from the other terms and conditions and shall be deemed to be deleted from them.
8.3 Failure by either party to exercise any right or remedy under this Agreement does not constitute a waiver of that right or remedy.
8.4 Any formal legal notices should be sent to us at the address at the end of these Terms of Use by email confirmed by post.
8.5 Failure by us to enforce a right does not result in waiver of such right.
8.6 You may not assign or transfer your rights under this Agreement.
9.1 You may link your website to the home page of the Website at http://www.rhul.ac.uk/ , provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it, but you must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists.
Royal Holloway, University of London reserves the right on demand, as it in its discretion thinks fit, to direct you to remove any links to the Website from your website and you shall promptly comply with any such direction or any other lawful direction that we may give to you in relation to the placing of any such link on your website.
9.2 You must not establish a link from any website that is not owned by you.
9.3 Our Website (or any part of its or content on it) must not be framed on any other site, nor may you create a link to any part of the Website other than the home page.
We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice.
The website from which you are linking must comply in all respects with the content standards set out in paragraph 4 above.
10.1 "Royal Holloway, University of London" and "Royal Holloway, University of London Enterprise" are UK registered trade marks of Royal Holloway and Bedford New College.
11.1 The Agreement is governed by English law notwithstanding the jurisdiction where you are based.
You irrevocably agree that the courts of England shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute which may arise out of, under, or in connection with these Terms of Use and for those purposes irrevocably submit all disputes to the jurisdiction of the English courts.
The place of performance shall be England.
11.2 We provide no warranty or guarantee that the Website or information available on it complies with laws other than those of England.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility:
Accessibility
Making our websites accessible to all.
Royal Holloway, University of London seeks to ensure that people are treated equally regardless of age, disability, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, gender, religion, sexual orientation or personal circumstances.
Royal Holloway, University of London does its best to ensure that its Websites are accessible to all its users and potential users, including but not limited to users with disabilities (e.g.
visual impairments, cognitive impairments, motor impairments etc); users for whom English is a second language; users of various software; or any other users who may need to use our Websites.
Please find links on this page to accessibility statements for websites and web applications that are in use at Royal Holloway.
These accessibility statements will help you get the best from our content and services, giving guidance on how to use the websites, and listing the known accessibility issues.
If you have any questions about the accessibility of our websites please contact the Digital team .
Royal Holloway Website Accessibility Statement
American Foundation Accessibility Statement
Campus Connect Accessibility Statement
Epay Accessibility Statement
Equella Accessibility Statement
Extensions Website Accessibility Statement
Intranet Accessibility Statement
Moodle Website Accessibility Statement
Ask Royal Holloway Accessibility Statement

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/modern-slavery:
Modern slavery
Royal Holloway, University of London, procures a wide range of goods, services and works which are sourced from both national and international suppliers.
The university recognises that it has a responsibility to take a robust approach in its supply chains and is committed to a zero tolerance policy in relation to modern slavery and human trafficking.
Read Royal Holloway's Modern Slavery policy statement

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/biological-sciences/biomedical-sciences:
Biomedical Sciences
Here's what you need in order to apply:
Make a note of the UCAS code for the course you want to apply for:
BSc
Duration: 3 years full time
UCAS code: B990
Institution code: R72
Campus: Egham
Biomedical Sciences with a Year in Industry
Duration: 4 years full time
UCAS code: B991
BSc Biomedical Sciences with Integrated Foundation Year
UCAS code: B99F
Gain a thorough grounding in the basis, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of disease by studying Biomedical Sciences at Royal Holloway, University of London.
This comprehensive course will prepare you to join the ranks of biomedical researchers at the forefront of human health investigation.
You’ll study biochemistry, physiology, cell biology, molecular biology and genetics before choosing from a range of optional modules in years 2 and 3, allowing you to specialise and follow your own particular interests.
As a 2nd and 3rd-year student, you’ll receive specialist teaching from local health professionals, allowing you to learn more about subjects including neuroscience and clinical diagnosis of disease.
You’ll have the option to embark on a lab-based individual research project in your 3rd year, joining a renowned research culture that has seen former students contribute to published scientific papers.
100% of our research impact in the Department  of Biological Sciences was judged to be 4* and 3* world-leading and internationally excellent in terms of its originality, significance and rigour in the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF21).
This places the department in the top 25% of departments nationally for research impact.
You’ll benefit from facilities that include state-of-the-art equipment for bioinformatics, mass spectrometry and protein and gene sequencing, as well as our excellent imaging facilities, including confocal laser scanning microscopes for 3D live-cell imaging.
Through your studies you will gain an impressive portfolio of transferable skills, making you an attractive prospect for potential employers.
Invaluable lab experience, specialist learning and communication skills will help you to join our alumni in sectors including medical research, biotechnology and clinical trials coordination.
From time to time, we make changes to our courses to improve the student and learning experience.
If we make a significant change to your chosen course, we’ll let you know as soon as possible.
In this module you will develop an understanding of key scientific concepts and effective science communication.
You will learn how to process and critique different forms of information, and how to communicate science to both scientific and non-scientific audiences using diverse media, forms and methods.
You will also examine ethical issues surrounding research and intervention.
In this module you will develop an understanding of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell biology and the key functions of these structures and organelles.
You will look at the origin of life and the principles of natural selection and evolution.
You will also learn the practical technique involved in microscopy, including fixation techniques for the analysis of cell ultrastructure and aseptic techniques for bacterial culture.
In this module you will develop an understanding of genes and their behaviour in individuals organisms, in populations, and at the molecular level within the cell.
You will look cellular genetics with respect to mitosis, meiosis, inheritance and recombination, and consider the fundamentals of gene expression, its control, and DNA replication.
You will examine genome organisation, transcription, and translation, and gain practical experience of using techniques in microscopy, including slide preparation for the observation of chromosomes.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the fundamental chemistry of life processes and laboratory experiments.
You will look at the basics of biological chemistry, including the chemical bonding and reactivity of important biomolecules, intermolecular forces, 3D structure and isomerism.
You will analyse equilibria in acid/base biochemistry and solve related problems.
You will also learn the basic biochemical lab techniques and carry out consequent data analysis.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the basics of biochemistry.
You will look at some of the key techniques for biochemical analysis, including spectroscopy, and the fundamentals of protein structure.
You will examine structure / function relationships in myoglobin, hemoglobin and the serine proteases, and learn to solve biochemical kinetic problems using the Michaelis-Menten equation.
You will also consider how to solve thermodynamic problems, including equilibrium constants.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the main concepts of classic protein biochemistry including protein purification, enzyme kinetics, and enzyme structure.
You will look at the basic principles behind a number of protein purification techniques, and consider basic enzyme kinetics using the Michaelis-Menten equation and derived methods to analyse kinetic data.
You will examine the underlying biochemistry of a variety of analytical methods and their applications in research and diagnostics, gaining practical experience in performing some of these methods in laboratory practicals.
You will also analyse the concept of biochemical buffers and learn how to make these from stock solutions.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the fundamental physiological systems that are required to maintain complex multi-cellular animals, specifically those involved in communication, transport and homeostasis.
You will look at how systems and specialised organs have evolved and interact to obtain oxygen from the environment whilst maintaining optimal internal conditions for cellular function.
You will consider the mechanisms, organisation, functions and integration of the nervous and endocrine systems to show how neural (somatic and autonomic) and hormonal signalling enable an animal to sense and respond both consciously (e.g.
movement) and unconsciously (e.g.
internal homeostasis).
You will also examine the evolution of the closed circulatory system, separated into pulmonary and systemic circuits and driven by a four-chambered heart, essential for the body-wide distribution of nutrients, oxygen and hormones, and for the removal of waste products.
This module will explain the function of some organ systems in humans and illustrates the consequence of disease on physiological function.
The module will begin by explaining the structure, organisation and function of key brain structures, and how special sensory systems convert light, sound and position/movement into electrical signals that are transmitted to the brain: including how our ability to sense the environment can be disrupted by disease.
This will be followed by an explanation of the function and regulation of the mammalian kidney and the lungs, and the roles of the adrenal gland.
The module then covers aspects of basic haematology; the fluid and formed elements of blood and their role in inflammation and the control of bleeding following vessel damage.
The module will end with an introduction to skeletal muscle function and its neural regulation, how movement is controlled and sensed by the somatic nervous system.This module will explain the function of some organ systems in humans and illustrates the consequence of disease on physiological function.
The module will end with an introduction to skeletal muscle function and its neural regulation, how movement is controlled and sensed by the somatic nervous system.
This module will describe the key principles of academic integrity, focusing on university assignments.
Plagiarism, collusion and commissioning will be described as activities that undermine academic integrity, and the possible consequences of engaging in such activities will be described.
Activities, with feedback, will provide you with opportunities to reflect and develop your understanding of academic integrity principles.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the function and integration of selected human physiological systems in normal physiology and disease.
You will look at endocrine control in the human body, specifically the role of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis and the function and regulation of thyroid hormones.
You will examine the organisation and integration of the nervous, cardiovascular, respiratory and systems and the principles of whole muscle physiology.
You will also consider the composition and functions of blood and haemostasis, and the analysis and interpretation of physiological experiments.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the chemical structure of DNA and RNA, and how genes are organised and expressed.
You will look at gene characterisation using recombinant DNA technology, and will consider DNA as a template for RNA synthesis.
You will also become familiar with molecular biology techniques that are widely used in the life sciences, including the preparation and handling of purified DNA, restriction enzyme digestions, and polymerase chain reaction.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the mammalian immune systems at cellular and molecular levels, and how this is determined by antibody structure and function, the complement system, and the impact of immunoglobulin genetics.
You will look at the role of T cells as effectors and regulators of immune responses, allergic reactions, transplant rejection, and the HIV virus and the pathogenesis of AIDS on the immune system.
You will examine antipody antigen reaction techniques used in immunology, and consider the isolation and purification of lymphocytes, their morphology and abundance.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the structure of the nervous system, including the main types of cells and the transmission of signals within neuronal networks.
You will look at the process of synaptic transmission, including both electrical and chemical synapses.
You will examine the different types of neurotransmitters and receptors and the mechanism of intracellular signaling, considering the role of second messenger signaling pathways.
You will also enhance your practical skills, such as isolating and characterising synaptosomes and using these for the study of transmitter metabolism.
In this module you will develop an understanding of drug-receptor interactions and the methods used to characterise drug action.
You will look at the factors that influence drug action and drug toxicity within the body, examining the concepts of drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion.
You will consider the pharmacology of a number of major drug classes, including antihypertensives, antidepressants, analgesics, general and local anaesthetics and drugs affecting the autonomic system.
You will carry out an individual laboratory or theoretical investigation, supervised by an appropriate member of staff, who will provide guidance throughout.
You will apply the knowledge and skills learned throughout your studies, and learn to organise data in a logical, presentable and persuasive way.
You will produce a report, around 8,000 words in length, and will deliver an oral presentation with a summary of your findings.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the theory, technology, and clinical practice of human molecular genetics.
You will look at a range of genetic disorders and inborn errors of metabolism such as muscular dystrophies, cystic fibrosis, haemophilia, lysosomal storage disorders, haemoglobinopathies, mitochondrial respiratory chain disorders, neurotransmitter synthesis disorders, lipoprotein diseases and primary immunodeficiencies.
You will examine the concepts and significance of human inherited disease gene mapping and consider the importance of the human genome project.
Below is a taster of some of the exciting optional modules that students on the course could choose from during this academic year.
Please be aware these do change over time, and optional modules may be withdrawn or new ones added.
In this module you will develop an understanding of some of the key concepts in microbiology, including the study of bacteria, viruses, and eukaryotic microbes.
You will look at how microbes are distinguished and classified, and discuss bacterial growth and differentiation.
You will examine the importance of microorganisms in health and disease, including human welfare issues such as opportunistic infections and the role of microorganisms in cancer.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the key methologies used in cell biology, becoming familar with modern microscopy techniques and live cell imaging studies.
You will look at the basic mechanisms that regulate the cell cycle and the regulatory mechanisms for DNA synthesis and mitosis.
You will examine mitochondria and chlorpolast organelle functions, and the principles of polar bodies and asymmetric cell division.
You will assess the basic mechanisms underlying cell shape and mobility, and consider the evolutionary constrains of cellular functions.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the processes that lead from a fertilised egg into complex tissues and organisms with well-defined body plans.
You will look at the basic cellular and genetic mechanisms that regulate development, and the evolutionary outcomes of developmental changes.
You will examine model organisms in which both embryological and genetic approaches have been developed, and will explore axis establishment, segmentation, cellular differentiation, organ development, and the widely-shared signalling pathways that underpin them.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the major pathways for electron transfer and energy conversion in living systems.
You will look at how energy is utilised in biosynthesis, and the role of enzymes, coenzymes and metabolic intermediates.
You will examine the priniciple of flux control and metabolic regulation and the mechanisms that balance the activity of key pathways to physiological demands.
You will also consider the main features of human energy metabolism and their relationship to obesity and diabetes, and analyse the importance of protein glycosylation and how protein glycans are biosynthesised.
In this module you will develop an understanding of protein structure, protein folding in vivo, and the principles of protein engineering and protein-protein interaction.
You will look at methods for the separation, purification, detection, and structural analysis of proteins, gaining practical experience in using techniques such as SDS-PAGE and Western blotting.
You will also examine mechanisms of enzyme catalysis and regulation.
You will carry out a literature research project on a biological or biochemical topic of your choice, producing a written report around 5000 words in length.
You will critically evaluate recent scientific publications on your chosen topic, highlighting how data has been used to generate and test hypotheses.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the principles of parasitism and the protective mechanisms used by immuno-competent hosts to limit the spread of infection.
You will look at the biological strategies used by a range of unicellular and multicellular organisms to colonise host causing disease in human and non-human hosts.
You will consider studies on the pathology and the cellular immunity elicited by various parasites, and the immune evasion strategies used by widely distributed human parasites to protect themselves from immune attack.
You will also address the principles and prospects of anti-parasitic vaccination in the 21st Century.
Why do we get sick?
Why are pregnancies complicated?
Why do we grow old?
Why do infectious diseases have a disproportionate effect in men and women?
These fascinating questions are the core of evolutionary medicine.
Through case studies, we will explore contemporary issues in health and disease –ones that we confront on a regular basis– and ask how evolutionary concepts –e.g., life history theory, cooperation and conflict, constraints and trade-offs, coevolution– help us to understand, mitigate, or combat those issues.
We will answer questions like: How does understanding human evolutionary history inform us of the causes of common diseases?
What role does evolution play in reproductive health and chronic diseases?
Why is cancer an evolutionary process that can avoid the action of chemotherapy?
What are the consequences of pathogen evolution for disease outcomes, treatment, and control?
What are some strategies for overcoming or circumventing pathogen evolution in response to medical intervention?
Can we predict the next disease that will emerge in humans?
In this module you will develop an understanding of human metabolism, physiology and immunology.
You will look at the main features of human energy metabolism, including nutrition, the importance of vitamins, and the biochemical basis of specific disorders, such as diabetes, hypercholesterolemia and obesity.
You will consider the disorders associated with lipid dysfunction and examine other metabolic disorders such as hypercholesterolemia.
In this module you will develop an understanding of medical microbiology with particular reference to bacteria and pathogenic eukaryotes.
You will look at pathogen mechanisms for infection, the host immune response to infection, vaccine development, gastrointestinal health and disease, resistance to antibiotics, anti-parasite chemotherapy and the genetic and biochemical validation of parasite drug targets in the kinetoplastidae.
You will examine the role of probiotics in health and disease, and consider a range of microbiological and molecular diagnostics techniques.
The ability to manipulate genes provides one of the most important advances in modern research since the discovery of the structure and function of DNA.
This process, called genetic engineering, is critical for biomedical research since it has enabled an improved understanding of the role of proteins at both a cellular and organismal level – through gene deletion or through the introduction or removal of disease-associated mutations.
This module will provide an advanced-level course on Genetic Engineering.
The module will focus on the use of Genetic Engineering in a range of systems including a simple non-animal model (Dictyostelium), and both in vitro and in vivo animal systems.
The course will describe the use of these models for Genetic Engineering research, the underlying principles in the research, and the practical application of this research in areas of human health and disease, with a particular focus on current advances in these areas.
In this module you will develop an understanding of advanced concepts and recent advances in fundamentally important areas of cell biology relevant to cancer, including developments in microscopy, imaging and molecular genetic techniques.
You will look at current concepts in molecular cell biology, such as cell-cell adhesion and signaling, stem cells in development and in diseases, and cancer and the role of the cytoskeleton.
You will examine topics in cancer biology including oncogenes, tumour suppressor genes and caretaker genes, and the signaling and regulatory pathways these are involved in.
You will also examine the diagnosis and rationale of cancer therapies.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the structure-function relationships in proteins, and how new technologies are being used to exploit protein sequence data.
You will look at how genome-wide analyses can be used to examine regulation in biological systems, and consider modes of specific recognition in mediating protein interactions.
In this module you will develop an understanding of human embryos and the development and function of particular endocrine systems.
You will look at embryonic development, including gastrulation and specification of the axes, and the initial steps in the formation and patterning of the brain and spinal cord.
You will examine craniofacial development, pharyngeal gland formation and sex determination, analysing the cellular and molecular processes involved in detail.
You will also consider some of the birth defects that can arise, the genetic and environmental insults that cause them, and investigations which inform their prevention.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the basic principles of brain development and the molecular mechanisms which regulate this, including the synthesis, storage and release of neurotransmitters.
You will look at the molecular basis of learning and memory, considering brain disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease, epilepsy and bipolar disorder.
You will assess the problem of brain damage in preterm babies and infants, and the methods available to help provide neuroprotection, with insights from a clinical practitioner.
This module is taught by clinicians from Ashford and St Peter’s Hospital, who are experts in their field and work at the patient interface.
You will develop an understanding of the physiology of smooth muscle and the function of the intestine, disorders of the pelvic floor and complications of childbirth, and the causes and treatment of colon cancer.
You will look at the normal physiology of bone, including its formation and function, and examine bone disorders such as calcium homeostasis, metabolic defects, fractures, healing and ageing.
You will also consider the normal structure and function of soft tissues, including muscles, tendons, ligaments and cartilage.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how physiology, biochemistry and biochemical methodologies can be applied to the investigation of disease and monitoring of treatment.
You will look at the chemical pathology of a range of physiological systems, including kidney, liver, heart, thyroid and bone, and clinical biochemical aspects of cancer diagnosis, infertility and epilepsy.
You will examine the rationale behind the analyses used in the biochemical investigation of disease, and consider the clinical aspects of disorders affecting the various organs and systems.
Each year you will take modules worth a total of 120 credits, with most individual modules worth 15 credits.
In your final year, your Individual Research Project is worth 30 credits.
The first year is formative, while outcomes of your second and third year contribute one third and two-thirds of your final degree classification respectively.
You will attend a mixture of lectures, seminars and small-group tutorials, with class sizes that range from 6 to 180 students.
Practical classes are a major part of all first and second year modules, and include experiments that are integral to the subject, helping to familarise you with the material and augment your understanding of key topics.
These are either laboratory-based or field-based with laboratory follow-up.
In your third year, you will complete an individual research project supervised by one of our academics, and you may have the opportunity to contribute towards a published scientific paper.
The individual research project is assessed on the basis of a written report, supervisor assessment, and an oral presentation.
During your first and second years, you will complete essays and reports, and sit written examinations.
In your third year, assignments include a range of activities, such as preparation of posters, oral presentations, creation of leaflets and podcasts, coursework essays, mock research grant applications and scientific news-and-views articles, as well as analysis of data from online repositories in mini-research projects.
Required subjects: Biology plus another science from Applied Science, Chemistry, Maths, Further Maths, Statistics, Computer Science, Physics or Psychology.
A Pass is required in the practical element of all Science A-levels taken.
At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and Mathematics.
Required subjects:
All teaching at Royal Holloway is in English.
You will therefore need to have good enough written and spoken English to cope with your studies right from the start.
For more information about country-specific entry requirements for your country please visit here .
For international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements, for this undergraduate degree, the Royal Holloway International Study Centre offers an International Foundation Year programme designed to develop your academic and English language skills.
Upon successful completion, you can progress to this degree at Royal Holloway, University of London.
Biomedical Sciences at Royal Holloway, University of London is structured to help students progress to further biomedical research.
You’ll gain the invaluable skills and experience you need to work in a wide range of sectors, with a combination of lab experience and independent research making you an attractive prospect for potential employers.
The  Department of Biological Sciences is a close-knit community, with our alumni regularly returning to share their knowledge and experience with current students.
Our alumni have gone on to careers in sectors including pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and medical research.
Home (UK) students tuition fee per year*: £9,535
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £29,900
Other essential costs***: Students are recommended to purchase a laptop before starting their course, to assist with their studies.
How do I pay for it?
Find out more about funding options , including loans , scholarships and bursaries .
UK students who have already taken out a tuition fee loan for undergraduate study should check their eligibility for additional funding directly with the relevant awards body.
*The tuition fee for Home (UK) undergraduates is controlled by Government regulations.
This figure is the fee for the academic year 2025/26 and is shown as a guide.
The fee for the academic year 2026/27 has not yet been announced.
**This figure is the fee for EU and international students on this course in the academic year 2026/27.
Royal Holloway reserves the right to increase tuition fees annually for all students.
For further information see fees and funding.
*** These estimated costs relate to studying this particular degree at Royal Holloway during the 2026/27 academic year.
Costs, such as accommodation, food, books and other learning materials and printing, have not been included.
We value practical teaching which is why this course is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology.
This means your qualification is recognised in the industry, giving you a competitive edge when applying for jobs.
Source: The Guardian Good University Guide, 2025
Source: REF, 2021

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/business-and-management/accounting-and-finance:
Accounting and Finance
UCAS code: NN34
Accounting and Finance with a Year in Business
UCAS code: NN43
Accredited by CIMA, CIPFA and ICAEW professional bodies, our School of Business and Management has a fresh and intellectually challenging approach to research and education.
Specialising in Accounting and Finance at Royal Holloway means that you will benefit from the in-depth knowledge of our academic experts.
As a Bloomberg Experiential Learning Partner , it recognises academic institutions that are leaders in experiential learning through the integration of Bloomberg terminal exercises in its curricula, providing students with the opportunity for hands-on experiential learning, to enhance their financial market awareness and key career skills.
On this course, you’ll study the core areas of financial accounting, management accounting and finance and obtain a thorough knowledge of both theory and practice.
The valuable knowledge and understanding this degree will give you, combined with interpersonal and transferable skills, will lead to excellent career prospects, with our students going on to work at a range of accounting firms and companies, from PWC and Deloitte, to Accenture and London Premier Hotels.
Several of our students have also furthered their studies , specialising in a certain area in their Master's studies, including MSc degrees in Investment, Banking and Finance and Data Analytics.
You may also apply to the professional bodies for exemptions from some of their examinations - the number of exemptions depend on the options you choose and the marks you obtain on your modules.
Your studies will be grounded in the wider business environment, providing you with an understanding of international business, information systems, strategy, and ethical decision-making.
You will receive individual attention and the flexibility to take specialist options , such as business law, auditing and taxation.
As well as graduating with enhanced knowledge of accounting and finance, you will have commercial awareness, the ability to communicate clearly, work in a team, analyse and solve problems , and manage your time effectively.
As a graduate you will be able to apply for exemptions and/or credit for prior learning from selected professional accounting bodies we have agreed exemptions with.
The exemptions from examinations or credit for prior learning that students are granted will depend on modules chosen and the marks obtained on those modules.
We're committed to preparing our students for graduate-level jobs after university and we continually review and refresh our courses to ensure they align with current trends and employer requirements.
In this module, you will develop an understanding of the external and internal environments of organisations and their relevance to help you develop self-awareness and knowledge and skills required to succeed at university, at work and in life generally.
You will look at a range of academic and professional literatures, examine the skills and abilities relevant to applying for or working as a professional, and consider how to communicate with academic and business audiences in a clear and effective manner.
In this module you will develop an understanding of basic mathematical methods for accounting and finance.
You will look at formulae, ratios, forecasting, estimation and probability techniques, including those for modelling risk and uncertainty.
You will learn to calculate, explain and use descriptive statistics and tests of statistical significance, and examine how to summarise and analyse data, including consideration of collection and sampling techniques.
On this module you'll learn about the management of international enterprises and which cross-border challenges that need to be taken into account when firms consider internationalising.
The module also covers the impact of different formal economic, political and legal institutions, as well as more informal institutions, such as culture, religion and language that must all be considered by an internationalising enterprise.
The module also identifies the implications concerning business ethics and sustainability
This module will introduce you to the main current technical language of accounting, double entry, and to financial accounting concepts and theories.
It introduces basic contexts, regulatory and ethical frameworks of accounting and the role of accounting and accountants in organisations and society.
You will consider the processes by which financial transactions and events are collected, recorded and summarised leading to the formation of the financial statements.
You will prepare basic financial statements; Statement of financial position (balance sheet), Statement of profit or loss, Statement of cashflow and Statement of Changes in equity.
You'll also be introduced to some alternative practices of accounting such as valuing non-current assets and inventory and will examine basic principles of financial decision making, with particular focus on developing skills for analysing financial accounting information using ratios.
The module also covers contextual issues including regulatory frameworks, ethics and corporate governance.
This module will provide you with an introduction to the basic techniques and processes of management accounting.
You will look at the current technical languages and practices relating to the provision and use of management accounting information in organisations.
You will learn now contribution-based approaches are used in cost-volume-profit analysis and the allocation of scarce resources, and how marginal and full costing information, including activity-based costing, is used to determine product costs, prices, and overall profits.
You will also consider the concept of relevant costs, specifically in the appraisal of capital investment decisions.
In this module you'll be introduced to the basis of micro economics: supply, demand and costs.
You will explore the types of market structures across the world, focusing on stakeholder impact.
Scenarios and cases will be used in lectures and workshops to develop knowledge of core concepts and to relate these and models to real world organisational challenges.
Limited macro factors and concepts which form the context of organisational operations will also be examined.
On this module you'll explore the foundations of responsible business and will prepare for a business world where the agenda is no longer 'business as usual'.
Using case studies, practical examples and new theories on responsible business you'll explore some of the 17 United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals such as climate action, reduced inequalities, responsible consumption and production and their relevance to business.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the theory and practice of financial reporting.
You will look at the regulatory and ethical background to the composition of financial reporting documents and learn to prepare single-company financial statements, and extracts from statements, in accordance with the international financial reporting standards (IFRS).
You will consider specific accounting issues such as handling of intangibles, and will critically examine and interpret financial statements using quantitative tools such as ratio analysis.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the use of management information systems, in particular those used for performance measurement, performance management, and decision making.
You will look at how management accounting information is used to support short and long term decision making by organisations to gain a competitive advantage.
You will consider traditional and alternative budgetary practices, including preparation of functional budgets, master budgets, and forecasts, and use of management control systems, such as standard costing and variance analysis.
You will also examine the use of transfer pricing methods for performance and decision making within divisionalised structures.
This module builds on the knowledge and skills developed in your first year Professional Skills module, to prepare you for the graduate workplace.
You will evaluate business functions and processes in an interdisciplinary context and develop effective communication skills for business, demonstrate collaborative leadership of self and others and learn to be able to work effectively in a team.
This module introduces the contexts, nature and purpose of investing and financing decisions and to introduce both theory and techniques for appraising financing and investing decisions.
A range of sources of long term finance appropriate to the business will be explained and discussed including a consideration of the role of the capital markets in facilitating access to funding.
You will estimate the weighted average cost of capital, and explain its implications for financing and investment decisions.
You will also explain the importance of working capital management and use and evaluate a range of techniques for managing elements of working capital including calculation of relevant ratios and the operating cash cycle.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the theories and empirical evidence concerning financial management, risk, and the operation of capital markets.
You will look at strategic decisions such as gearing and dividend policy within specified institutional contexts, and consider more practical aspects of business finance, including the preparation of forecast financial statements and their use in business planning and valuation.
You will also examine aspects of business restructuring, the global context for both investing and financing, and further aspects of risk management.
Sustainability accounting and accountability is fundamental in the pursuit of low-carbon and less unsustainable societies.
Recognising that accounting can prove to be transformative, you will explore sustainability accounting and accountability including how it broadens the spectrum of information used in organisational decision-making.
Relevant global context and key concepts are outlined and you will discuss a wide variety of sustainability accounting and accountability topics, including sustainability reporting frameworks and practices.
The role accounting has with key sustainability issues (e.g., climate, water, biodiversity, human rights and economic inequality) are also covered.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the importance of information systems and technologies in the practice of accounting and finance.
You will look at how information systems and technologies are being used in the accounting and finance functions.
You will examine how accounting information systems, including roles, functionality and tasks, differ between larger and smaller organisations and consider issues surrounding the development, implementation and management of information systems and technology, as well as emerging topics, such as blockchain, analytics and information systems security.
You will also gain practical experience in using commonly used software packages such as Microsoft Excel and SAP ERP.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the advanced theory and practice of financial reporting, in the context of governance and corporate social responsibility.
You will look at theories that have been developed to assist in the improvement and regulation of corporate financial reporting.
You will consider the economic concepts of income and value and their application to financial reporting, and how group financial statements are prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards (IFRS).
You will also examine complex accounting issues, such as financial instruments, taxation, employee benefits and leases, and advanced techniques of analysis and interpretation of corporate financial statements, such as trend analysis, segmental analysis, and advanced ratio analysis.
In this module you will develop an understanding of management in theory and practice.
You will look at the ethical and international contexts in which investment management takes place.
You will examine topics such as efficient markets, the capital asset pricing model, arbitrage pricing theory, and models of systematic risk, considering empirical evidence and current practices.
You will evaluate optimal portfolio choices, learning to devise an appropriate portfolio strategy which takes into account the current state of the financial markets.
You will also asses the merits of active and passive bond portfolio management from both a domestic and international perspective and examine recent changes to international fund management and their implications.
In this module you will develop an understanding of approaches to ethical decision making in accounting and finance.
You will critically evaluate decision models for accounting ethics, assessing contemporary issues faced by accountants and finance professionals, including the influence of stakeholders, accounting standards, and moral philosophy.
You will also examine the role of auditing practices in society, looking at look at real world examples, including major accounting and finance scandals.
You will also analyse some of complex ethical issues that surround business decision making, including examples of good and bad practice by governments, corporations and individuals.
The aim of this module is to get familiarised with the importance of business negotiation, by exploring key concepts and frameworks of business negotiation in a variety of contexts.
You'll formulate appropriate negotiation and communication strategies to achieve specific goals and reflect on their effectiveness and you'll be introduced to necessary negotiation and communication skills to thrive in professional settings and in negotiation-related functions.
In this module, you will develop an understanding of the management consulting sector, from large consulting firms to small boutique consultancies.
This will help you decide on the attractiveness of this sector for their careers.
You will be equipped with skills that are key in management consulting, but also relevant and transferable to a wide range of management settings.
You will be introduced to the management consulting sector, its controversies and keys skills necessary to enter the sector.
You will also examine the processes, relationships and practices involved with management consulting.
In particular, we look at consultants themselves, clients, the relationships between them and the ethical issues associated with consulting.
You will also develop an assessed practical exercise applying skills common to management consulting.
This module equips you with relevant entrepreneurial marketing skills to pursue a career in a new business venture or start your own business in a socially responsible and ethical way.
You'll learn to identify opportunities, being innovative and implementing changes by analysing the latest market trends, identify usable resources and assess personal competencies to persistently identify and/or create new opportunities.
Through various individual and group activities you will engage with practical cases from around the world and discussing how entrepreneurial marketers have adapted their leadership styles in different contexts and implemented their ideas in the market with a socially responsible and ethical mindset.
In this module, you'll learn the knowledge and skills needed to be effective in a professional practice environment.
You'll focus on communication and the need to adopt different leadership styles in dynamic business contexts.
The module focuses on careers in accountancy, but the skills developed are transferable and will be useful in any work environment.
In this module you will learn advanced analytical skills to complete the critical scrutiny of contemporary issues, critically evaluating arguments and evidence concerning unstructured problems, and to research a topic in depth.
The topics you'll explore include those related to the cutting-edge research senior members of the academic staff of the department conduct , including contemporary research topics on sustainability issues and more.
External speakers from the accounting profession will be invited for talks on topics and after this module you will demonstrate advanced independent learning-, critical reasoning and self-study skills.
In this module you'll be equipped with advanced analytical skills and will be able to evaluate the role of finance in organisations and society.
Topics included relate to some of the cutting-edge research being undertaken by senior members of the academic staff and include behaviour finance, energy finance, fintech ecosystem, AI and blockchain etc.
Online materials and readings will be used to introduce a contemporary issue that is being researched by each academic which will be supported by workshops in developing the topic.
You will be able to hear from external speakers from the finance profession who will be invited for talks on the topics.
You will take one of the following:
In this module, you will gain a good understanding of the main theories of strategic management and how to apply them in the context of contemporary business environment.
You will be introduced to key concepts and debates about corporate and business strategy.
The changing context in which the corporate strategy is formulated and implemented will be examined.
The module also demonstrates how theoretical debates can be related to corporate strategies via the analysis of case studies covering a variety of industrial settings and situations.
This module aims to provide an in-depth exploration of the key principles, theories, and practices associated with managing human resources within organisations.
It is designed to equip you with a comprehensive understanding of strategic and operational dimensions within HRM and its role in fostering organisational success.
Content covers various HR practices and strategies, including recruitment and selection, training and development, performance management, reward management, legal and ethical considerations, and the emerging challenges in the field of HR.
You will learn to apply these principles to foster a positive work environment, align HR strategies with organisational goals, and navigate challenges in diverse and dynamic workplaces.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the design, planning and control of operating systems for the provision of goods and services.
You will look at the tools and techniques used in the development of operational systems and the factors that affect the choice of operating methods.
You will consider approaches to the planning cycle, inventory management, and production control techniques, including capacity planning, and the merits of push and pull systems.
You will also examine quality control and its management in practice.
This module aims to cultivate a reflective and pragmatic comprehension essential for preparing, analysing, and presenting data through visuals in the context of a rapidly evolving job market, heavily influenced by the exponential growth of AI solutions.
You will be introduced to the principles of data handling, emphasising efficient and effective practices to uncover insights, with a strong focus on visual storytelling and the development of compelling narratives.
You will acquire a thorough understanding of data visualisation and analytics, encompassing advanced concepts, methodologies, techniques, and cutting-edge tools and will gain substantial hands-on experience in manipulating raw data to create insightful visual data narratives, tailored to address the dynamic challenges and opportunities presented by AI-driven markets.
This module explores how exploring and analysing music can help us to deepen our understanding of management, work organisations, working lives and ultimately, ourselves.
Through the lens of music, and using a variety of creative approaches, you will critically evaluate core managerial and organisational concepts and theories.
You will explore the power of music to engage employees, boost morale, and give voice to workers who might otherwise remain unheard.
You will examine the role music can play in helping to identify and tackle our own and others’ unconscious biases.
You will analyse work songs, write lyrics to your own company song and develop your own motivational music playlist.
You will research and analyse contemporary management dilemmas and challenges and, using creative writing and art, gain new insights into the lived experience of work and imagine alternative futures to current work systems.
In this module you will develop an understanding of taxation and tax practice, including the ethical context, in the UK.
You will look at the influence of the EU on UK tax objectives and policies, the administration of the tax system, the different types of tax in the UK, and the ethical principles that relate to undertaking tax engagements.
You will learn how to calculate income tax, national insurance contributions, capital gains tax, corporation tax and VAT in straightforward scenarios.
You will consider the use of quantitative and qualitative information to make recommendations to taxpayers and others, examining the application of tax law and identifying ethical decision-making processes, for example in mitigating tax liabilities.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the assurance process, specifically in relation to the assessment of internal controls and gathering of evidence on an assurance engagement.
You will look at the codes of professional ethics that apply to accountants, and auditors in particular, considering the concepts and need for assurance, the process of assurance, and professional ethics.
You will learn methods of obtaining and documenting evidence, including sampling, written representations and substantive testing, and apply your knowledge to selected case studies to arrive at reasoned conclusions, making recommendations where appropriate.
The aim of this module is to develop in-depth understanding of the characteristics and operation of the international financial markets.
The analysis of international equity, bond, exchange and derivatives markets will be linked to the main concern of governments and international financial organisations taking part in these flows.
This also enables students to appreciate the different trends in the integration of financial markets and financial intermediation within countries, regions and at global level.
The module provides insights into the dynamic phenomenon of financial technology.
You'll gain a core understanding of financial technology applications, and how a wide range of disruptive innovations are reshaping the financial system.
Along with providing the knowledge of a new, rapidly developing, and challenging ecosystem the module draws on practical examples and theories.
The curriculum covers emerging market players, emerging technologies (such as for example, Cloud Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, Real-Time Payments etc.), and you'll analyse some of the key aspects of the relevant regulations of the regulatory frameworks (PSD2, GDPR, Open Banking, MiFID, etc,)
In this module you will develop an understanding of business innovation in the context of new ventures and corporations.
You will look at how changes in technology, markets, and society are affecting how new business models, products and services emerge.
You will consider innovation as a source of competitive advantage and examine the management of innovation, critically evaluating associated risks and uncertainty.
You will also analyse past experiences and how they can be used to exploit future opportunities through innovation.
In this module you will develop an understanding of various aspects of the international financial accounting environment.
You will look at the regulatory background to the composition of reporting documents, considering influences on national financial reporting and international differences in financial reporting systems.
You will examine approaches to the classification of financial reporting systems, and initatives designed to achieve international harmonisation and standardisation of accounting practices.
You will also evaluate communication issues in accounting and analyse the impact of international accountability.
This module will explore the intersections between management and the arts, considering how each can support the other.
The role of management within various arts sectors will be examined.
You'll gain insight into how artistic and creative practices can inform the practice of management, facilitating creative approaches to problem-solving, communicating and addressing business and societal challenges.
This module has been developed for any student considering a career within the arts sector, or anyone wishing to adopt a more creative approach to their working practices.
Your course will be assessed by a combination of examinations and in-course assignments in the form of essays or presentations.
Your understanding of the key management subjects will be achieved by the following learning methods:
Required subjects: GCSE Mathematics at grade B or 6 At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and Mathematics.
All teaching at Royal Holloway (apart from some language courses) is in English.
For international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements, for this undergraduate degree, the Royal Holloway International Study Centre offers following pathway programmes designed to develop your academic and English language skills:
An Accounting and Finance degree at Royal Holloway offers you a route into the accounting profession, and it can also lead into a wider range of careers in business.
It is highly regarded by employers because of the deep understanding of accounting and finance in the context of the business environment combined with valuable interpersonal and transferable skills that can be taken directly into the workplace.
We will help students to recognise their own strengths, skills and abilities so that they can make strong applications for their chosen job or further study.
Graduates have entered accounting firms, investment banks, trusts and government departments in roles such as financial analyst, finance broker, government economist and trainee chartered accountant:
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £23,700
Other essential costs***: There are no single associated costs greater than £50 per item on this course.
This course is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) .
Source:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/classics/ancient-history:
Ancient History
BA
UCAS code: V110
If you are fascinated by the ancient civilisations of Greece and Rome and keen to develop transferable skills such as critical analysis then this course is for you.
Taught by a variety of internationally recognised experts, Ancient History offers the opportunity to study the history of Greece and Rome in the Classical period (600 BCE to 700 CE).
Over three years you will delve into the politics, events and developments underpinning our understanding of many aspects of historical societies and, indeed, our own culture.
You will explore themes, key periods and problems in Greek and Roman history, such as the emergence (and fall) of democracy and the rise, decline and fall of Empires.
You will build skills and knowledge from day one.
In year two, the experience of historical periods will be deepened and widened and you will develop skills in research and concentrate on your individual interests, which will culminate in specialist studies and individual research projects in year three.
As you build knowledge and understanding of a formative and fascinating period of world history, you will have the opportunity to study in other areas of the curriculum, notably: archaeology, literature, philosophy and language.
There is also the possibility of spending a year abroad, experiencing the profound effect these classical cultures have had on history, culture and politics.
As a student of Ancient History you will be part of our Classics Department, where the quality of research that informs our teaching and a friendly, individual approach which shapes the way we guide our students combine to create an unbeaten academic experience.
If we make a significant change to your chosen course, we’ll let you know as soon as possible.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the Greek World in the Classical Period.
You will look at the key events in Greek History from 580 to 323 BC and place these in their historical context.
You will consider historical problems and critically examine information and accounts set out in the Greek sources as well as in the works of modern historians.
You will analyse a range of sources materials, including inscription, historiography and oratory, and develop an awareness of potential bias in these.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the development of Roman politics and society over the extended period of Roman history, from early Rome through to the emergence of the Medieval World.
You will look at the chronology and development of Rome, examining key themes in the interpretation of particular periods of Roman history, including the rise and fall of the Republic and the Imperial Monarchy.
You will consider the difficulties and methological issues in the interpretation of Roman Historiography and analyse a variety of theoretical approaches used by historians.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how different classical disciplines interrelate.
You will focus on specific academic skills such as avoiding plagiarism, approaching and evaluating a range of ancient evidence, using library and other resources, critically evaluating modern scholarship and theoretical approaches, and relating academic study to employability.
The Roman Republic occupies a special place in the history of Western civilisation.
From humble beginnings beside the river Tiber, the Romans expanded to dominate the classical world.
Their armies defeated Carthage and the successors of Alexander the Great, and brought all the surrounding peoples under Roman rule.
Yet the triumph of the Republic was also its tragedy.
Political and socio-economic crisis plunged Rome into a descending spiral of civil war as rival warlords struggled for supremacy, until the Republican constitution collapsed and was replaced by the autocratic Roman empire.
In this module, we explore the history of the Republic from the foundation of Rome to the murder of Julius Caesar on the Ides of March 44 BC.
Students examine the social and political pressures that drove Rome to conquer her Mediterranean empire and the consequences of that expansion for the Romans and for the peoples they conquered.
The major literary sources are discussed in translation, together with the evidence of archaeology and material culture which helps us to bring the ancient Romans to life.
For almost half a millennium, the Roman empire ruled over the ancient Mediterranean world.
This module surveys the golden years of imperial Rome, from the achievement of sole rule by the first emperor Augustus (31 BC - AD 14) to the murder of Commodus (the white-clad emperor from Gladiator) in AD 192.
At its peak, Rome’s empire spanned from Hadrian’s Wall in Britain south to North Africa and east to Syria, enclosing the Mediterranean Sea within a single dominion.
We analyse the political, social and cultural developments under the emperors of the first and second centuries AD, and reassess their achievements and legacies: Claudius’ invasion of Britain, Nero’s cultured tyranny, the terrible efficiency of Domitian, Trajan the conqueror, and the philosophical Marcus Aurelius.
We likewise explore fundamental themes that shaped the wider empire, including imperial frontier policy and administration, the process of Romanisation, and the nature of Roman religion.
The evidence of art and architecture is examined, particularly the monuments from Rome herself and the wealth of material preserved in the buried town of Pompeii, alongside the major literary sources all readily available in English translation.
The Extended Essay is a unit of independent study under the supervision of a member of staff.
Students are required to write a long essay of 8,000 to 10,000 words.
In this module you will develop an understanding of Ancient Greek grammar and syntax and learn elementary vocabulary.
You will acquire basic aptitude in reading Ancient Greek text (mostly adapted, with some possible original unadapted basic texts) and consider the relationship between Ancient Greek language and ancient Greek literature and culture.
In this module you will further your understanding of Greek grammar and syntax.
You will look at Greek prose and/or verse texts, in unadapted original Greek, and learn how to accurately translate passages at sight.
In this module you will develop an understanding of a wide range of texts in ancient Greek.
You will look at set texts in both prose and verse for translation, and complete grammar and syntax consolidation exercises.
You will consider the literary and linguistic features of advanced Greek texts and examine features of grammar, syntax and style.
This module can be taken by anyone with less than a B in GCSE Latin.
If students have a B or better in Latin GCSE or equivalent, they should be looking at Intermediate Latin (unless it was a very long time ago).
The module sets out to provide a basic training in the Latin language for those with little or no previous experience of Latin.
The emphasis is on developing the skill of analysing the structure and meaning of Latin sentences, and on efficient use of the dictionary.
Students will also gain familiarity with a range of literary and epigraphic texts in the original Latin.
A module intended to build on Beginner’s Latin or O-level/GCSE, extending the students' knowledge of Latin to the point where they are ready to read substantial texts.
In this module you will develop an understanding of classical Latin and how to interpret Latin texts.
You will study two set texts in Latin, one prose and one verse, focussing on translation, context and understanding of grammar.
You will gain practice in unprepared translation of texts of similar genres to the prepared texts and will consider selected topics in Latin grammar and syntax.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the framework of Greek literary history from Homer to Heliodorus.
You will look at the chronology of major authors and works, and how they fit into larger patterns in the development of Greek culture and political history.
You will examine ancient literary texts in translation, considering issues in key genres including epic, lyric, drama, oratory, philosophical writing, historiography, Hellenistic poetry, and the Greek novel.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the history of Roman literature from its beginnings until the end of the Republic.
You will look at the work of the major Republican Roman authors Plautus and Terence, Lucretius, Catullus and Cicero.
You will consider the issues in the earlier history of Roman literature, including the relationship with Greek models and the question of Roman originality, literature and politics, the use of literature for scientific or philosophical exposition, and the development of narrative style ant attitudes to the Roman Republican past.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the history of Roman literature in the early imperial period.
You will look at the work of five authors selected from the Julio-Claudian period, considering the ways in which Roman literature responded to the new political conditions established by the Principate.
You will develop your skills in interpretation, analysis and argument as applied both to detailed study of texts (in translation) and to more general issues.
In this module you will develop an understanding of ancient philosophical ideas and the ways in which philosophical arguments are presented and analysed.
You will look at the thought and significance of the principal ancient philosophers, from the Presocratics to Aristotle, and examine sample texts such as Plato's 'Laches' and the treatment of the virtue of courage in Aristotle, 'Nicomachean Ethics' 3.6-9.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how classical Greek and Roman societies developed the concept and role of the individual as part of the wider community.
You will look at Greek and Roman education, and how that encouraged the formation of ideal behaviour and identity.
You will consider the role of rhetoric, and how competition was encouraged within these societies though literary and dramatic contests, sport, military life, and religion.
You will examine how these ideas reflect the role of the individual in the community of the cosmos, and the place in society of 'others', including the lower classes, women, children, the elderly, and slaves.
This is a survey module covering a large and disparate field.
No previous knowledge is assumed: it will offer a basic introduction to the principles of classical archaeology and to the archaeological material of ancient Greece.
The module will help you to place archaeological objects and contexts alongside literature and philosophy and to gain a more rounded understanding of how the Greeks thought about their world and the physical environment they created for themselves.
The main aim of the module is to familiarise you with the material culture of the Greek civilisation from the Bronze Age to the Hellenistic period.
We will examine the principal forms of Greek art and architecture, together with their stylistic development and social context.
We will also consider developments in political organisation and religious practice, as well as evidence for everyday life.
The module will introduce basic methodological concepts and theoretical approaches to the study of ancient Greek material culture.
This module studies the broad spectrum of archaeological evidence for the Roman world.
It will provide an introduction to the main sources of archaeological evidence and key sites across the Roman world.
It will offer a taste of how we can use the evidence they provide in the study of history, society and technology during the period c.
200 BC – c.
AD 300.
It aims to familiarize you with the principal forms and contexts in which art and architecture developed in the Roman world; to introduce you to the uses of material culture in studying history, i.e.
to study the art and architecture of Rome as part of its history, social systems, culture, and economy; and to develop critical skills in visual analysis.
The course has a modular structure, whereby students take 12 course units or modules at the rate of four whole units per year.
At least 7.5 modules of Ancient History must be taken over the three years of the degree, three modules at year 2 level, and three at year 3 level.
You will be taught through a mixture of lectures, seminars and tutorials, depending on the subjects studied.
Much of your work will be outside class: reading in the library or via e-learning resources (we have a comprehensive e-learning facility, Moodle).
You will also be preparing for seminars and lectures, working on essays and undertaking group projects and wide-ranging but guided independent study.
In your final year we provide ongoing support for your dissertation work, which usually includes:
Assessment takes place by a flexible combination of essays, projects, examinations, and tests, various methods being employed depending on the nature of the course unit and the intended learning outcomes.
In the third-year, students complete a guided and extended piece of independent research, a 10,000 word dissertation, on a historical subject.
Required subjects: At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and Mathematics.
Our degree courses not only promote academic achievement but also the means to hone the life-skills necessary to excel, post-graduation.
Studying Ancient History requires research, assessment, reasoning, organization and self-management often on your own or as part of a team.
So, by choosing to study this intellectually demanding discipline you will develop a broad range of skills which are highly prized by employers, including:
Being able to understand and process complex issues, to critically evaluate resources and construct coherent arguments both verbally and in writing is why many Royal Holloway classicists become employed in law, marketing, publishing, the media, government and finance.
Employers like Channel 4, multinational law firm SJ Berwin, The Guildhall (City of London), accountancy firm KPMG, the Natural History Museum, Customs and Immigration, London Advertising, Broadstone Pensions and Investments and the Armed Forces have all recently recruited Royal Holloway alumni from the Department of Classics.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £26,800
Other essential costs***: There are no single associated costs greater than £50 per item on this course
Admissions office: +44 (0)1784 443384
Source: Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025
Source: Guardian University Guide, 2025

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/computer-science/computer-science:
UCAS code: G400
Computer Science MSci
MSci
UCAS code: G403
Computer Science with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: G402
Computer Science with a Year in Industry MSci
Duration: 5 years full time
UCAS code: G404
Computer Science with Integrated Foundation Year
UCAS code: G40F
Want to work at the cutting-edge of computing technology and help in shaping the future of our global society?
Computers, intelligent devices and the internet are central to so many aspects of 21st century life, from business and industry to governance and our personal lives.
Their potential for transforming economies, driving efficiencies and enhancing the well-being of societies is almost limitless.
Our progressive curriculum will give you the knowledge and technical skills that employers need, and introduce you to pioneering ideas and technologies to help you to realise your ambitions.
We cover all the essentials of application development, from programming to software engineering, databases, artificial intelligence, and information security.
You will also explore the fundamentals of computing – what computers do, and how efficiently they do it – and learn about a host of advanced technologies.
From the outset you will be experimenting with designing and building software, working in teams, Scrum-based Agile software development and more, in our well-equipped laboratories.
We are a highly respected, research-focused department with a friendly approach and award-winning teaching.
We offer a short-term summer research opportunities and a dedicated personal adviser to guide you through your studies.
You will also be welcome to join our thriving Computing Society.
We are proud to  hold the Athena SWAN bronze award for increasing female participation in computer science.
The course’s modular structure gives you the flexibility to tailor your degree to your interests.
We also offer you the opportunity to follow a specialist pathway that matches your career ambitions.
At the end of year 1 you will have the option of transferring onto one of these pathways (Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security or Software Engineering), as well as onto a year-in-industry course, or onto our longer and more advanced integrated masters course.
This module teaches programming and object-orientation concepts.
Students will learn about program basics (variables, types, scope, lifetimes), control flow (if-constructs, for-loops, while-loops), data structures (strings, sets, lists, trees), objects (classes and inheritance), exceptions (throwing and catching) and file I/O (streams, file reading and writing).
This module teaches programming and object-orientation concepts, (building on what is taught in Object Oriented Programming I).
Students will reinforce their knowledge about program basics (eg variables, types, scope, lifetimes), algorithms (e.g.
recursion, searching, sorting), data structures (eg sets, lists, trees), objects (eg classes, dynamic dispatch, interface, inheritance, generics), exceptions and I/O (eg streams, file reading, writing and copying).
Furthermore, the course also teaches fundamentals of coding best practices.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the building of computer systems and applying  your knowledge as patrt of a small team to construct a fully-fledged software product.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how the internet works and its key protocols.
You will look at the technologies used for web development, including scripting languages and their potential for adding dynamic content to web sites and applications.
You will consider the role of web services and related technologies, and will examine the fundamental principles of network security.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the formal reasoning for sets, relations, functions and cardinality.
You will look at the structures for program data and representation and learn to write and reason recursive definitions and prove results by induction and contradiction.
You will also consider the representation and reasoning of problems using graphs.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the handling of large and infinite objects within a programming environment.
You will learn how to use formal logic to design, reason about and minimise switching circuits, and write basic programs in assembly language.
You will consider the binary representations of signed and unsigned integers and how to write regular expressions to describe sets and build deterministic automata to recognise these.
You will also examine the use of automata machines in the design and reasoning of sequential flow systems.
This module provides the necessary Mathematics to prepare you for topics such as Machine Learning and Information Security which have become essential to the discipline.
In particular, this will include an introduction to Linear Algebra (taught in a way relevant to Computer Scientists), Probability and Statistics.
In this module you will develop an understanding of software design and engineering processes, including the Waterfall and Agile methodologies.
You will learn how to identify common software requirements and see how these have been considered in existing systems.
You will look the techniques of software design and how software engineers communicate their design ideas.
You will consider the importance of documentation and the usage of current industry-standard notations such as user stories and the unified modeling language (UML).
You will also analyse and critique the design of existing software looking at the user experience as a measure of its fitness for purpose.
In this module you will develop an understanding of software engineering techniques and the managerial discipline required to work as part of a team.
You will look at basic object-oriented concepts and consider the need for effective program documentation, testing, readability, and modifiability.
You will consider the tools used to support software development, such as version controllers, debuggers, and code style checkers, and see how these are integrated into an industry-standard development environment (IDE).
You will deliver a small-scale project using test-driven development.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the role of the computer professional, gaining practical experience in developing medium scale software as part of a team using Scrum-based Agile development.
You will apply managerial discipline and learn about the software lifecycle, team development, standard industrial software engineering, project management, use of version control, and integrated development environments (IDEs).
You will see why project cost and effort is hard to estimate, and consider why project quality is hard to prescribe.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the function and architecture of network operating systems.
You will look at the role of an operating system, considering processes, memory and file systems.
You will learn to write basic shell scripts, see how services are used at the operating system-level, and evaluate the theory and practice of existing operating systems.
You will also examine the UNIX shell, including starting programs, input and output streams, pipes, filters, and utilities.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the basic concepts of database technology, including the need for database integrity and robustness, and the use of a modern database system in a web-based environment.
You will look at database design and the theory of the relational view of data, learn to describe the crucial issues concerning database integrity and recovery from failure, and write search query language (SQL) queries.
You will also consider the process of designing and implementing a database, from the user specifications to the final design, and implement an interface to an SQL database using an application programming interface (API).
In this module you will develop an understanding of the design of algorithms, with a focus on time and space complexity.
You will examine basic algorithms, looking at the implementation and analysis of linear search, binary search, and basic sorting, including insertion sort, selection sort, merger sort, quick sort, and heap sort.
You will consider alternative data structure representations, such as binary search trees, hash tables, and binary heaps, and will gain an insight into the basics of graph algorithms.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how information security may be influenced by real-world design and implementation decisions.
You will look at the different cryptographic algorithms, considering their use, advantages and disadvantages.
You will use these cryptographic primitives to review and evaluate cryptographic protocols, and examine the rational decisions in the design of tokens and secure elements.
This module provides the opportunity to demonstrate independence and originality, to plan and organise a large project over a long period, and to put into practice the techniques taught throughout the degree course.
The aim of this course is to introduce students to the basic principles, methods and techniques of the symbolic AI approach, where one develops an intelligent system using rules, knowledge and actions that are interpretable.
The intention is to provide the foundations of the key principles of symbolic AI, so that these can be combined with non-symbolic AI courses in the area.
The course will start by providing an overview of the approaches in the field by referring to the wider historical context in which the AI vision was set and will further motivate the content to be taught by presenting existing and potential applications.
After the overview, the course will deliver a series of topics from first principles, including the role of first-order logic for knowledge representation, computational reasoning and problem solving systems, the use of search as a capability for exploring alternative solutions, and how AI systems use symbolic knowledge to plan and learn from first principles.
In this module you will develop an understanding of computer and network security.
You will look at software vulnerabilities, hands-on hacking-oriented attacks, memory errors, and web and network security.
You will learn how to identify such vulnerabilities and consider the countermeasures that can mitigate their exploitation.
You will also examine malicious software (malware) as a typical consequence of a successful software exploitation.
In this module you will develop an understanding of key methods and techniques in machine learning.
You will study approaches such as nearest neighbours, ridge regression, Lasso, and support vector machines for both classification and regression tasks.
You will explore the use of different distance measures and the kernel trick, as well as practical kernels and their applications.
The module also introduces conformal prediction and its application to various algorithms.
You will gain experience in implementing basic machine learning algorithms and develop an awareness of how these methods can be applied in fields such as industry and medicine.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the fundamentals behind cryptography and how it is deployed in real systems.
You will look at a range of security services that can be provided by cryptography and the mechanisms behind them, such as symmetric and public-key encryption, hash functions, MACs, digital signatures and authentication protocols.
You will consider the architecture of security systems using cryptography, including key management, implementation issues, cryptographic standards and crypto politics, and examine real-world applications such as 3G, EMV, and SSL/TLS.
The module covers key areas of cyber security with the critical national (information) infrastructure forming its background.
Fault and attack models for information systems and cyber-physical systems are covered in the form of multiple techniques including variants of attack trees allowing probabilistic attack and defence refinements.
The module covers models of large-scale networks and their robustness properties to both random failures and particularly to deliberate attacks and discusses how key elements of the CNI such as the Internet but also other infrastructure sectors such as power and transport sectors can be captured by such models.
The security of cyber-physical systems and particularly industrial control systems is another major component of the module, including case studies of attacks by state actors and analyses of control system protocols as well as properties peculiar to CPS.
This module introduces students to system verification using model-checking techniques that are now adopted in industry.
Model checking is a formal technique that, over the last two decades or so, has proved to be a very attractive approach towards verifying the correctness of computer-based control systems.
It allows for desired behavioral properties of a given system to be verified on the basis of a suitable model of the system through systematic inspection of all states of the model.
Elements of language theory and automata Formal modelling of concurrent systems and logical requirement specifications Temporal logic (linear and branching) (Symbolic) model checking Introduction to the SPIN and SMV model checkers.
This course samples topics from various aspects of algorithms construction and analysis, including Graphs, graph algorithms, and applications, e.g., directed and undirected graphs; directed acyclic graphs and acyclic orderings; and connectivity in directed graphs; Algorithm design paradigms: General methods for designing and analysing efficient algorithms, such as dynamic programming, a more careful treatment of the divide and conquer method, and general strategies such as backtracking search or greedy approaches; Further application areas, such as string algorithms, network flows, and logic problems; Complexity and lower bounds: NP-hardness and NP-completeness; problem reductions; conjectural lower bounds, and lower bounds against problems in P; and methods for dealing with NP-complete problems, including heuristic approaches, exact algorithms, and tractable special cases.
We firmly believe that how we teach is at least as important as what we teach, and we know the importance of giving you the time and space to experiment and put theory into practice.
We encourage you to use your creativity, both in project teams and independently, and to have fun while you learn.
We use a variety of teaching methods, including lectures, small-group tutorials, supervised computer lab classes and problem-solving sessions.
You will also be expected to complete guided independent study and group work.
Our programming and software engineering teaching is very hands on, allowing you to learn at your own pace, whatever your previous level of experience.
All students attend laboratory classes that give you the chance to develop real applications with imagination and creativity..
We are proud of our award-winning teaching.
Professor Dave Cohen won a College Excellence Teaching Prize for the re-design of our second-year software engineering courses, and he was shortlisted for a Times Higher Education Award for Most Innovative Teacher of the Year.
The British Computer Society (BCS) has distinguished our software engineering teaching as an exemplar of 'best practice' in computer science education.
Assessment is through a mixture of examinations and coursework.
Most course units have a written examination taken at the end of the year in which they are taught, but around half of your final award will come from assessed coursework, which could include project reports (including the full unit project in year 3), essays, oral presentations and software submissions.
Required subjects: Computer Science or Mathematics or Physics.
At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and B/6 Mathematics.
For students taking the BTEC Extended Diploma please click here to see the specific modules you must take in order to meet the entry requirements for this course.
Computer scientists are required in a vast array of fields, including the arts, the media, finance, aerospace health and, of course, the IT sector, using the power of computing to solve real-world problems and build systems that can improve people’s lives.
Our graduates are highly employable, with a wide range of practical and transferable skills.
By the time you leave us you will know how to develop large and complex systems, solve technical problems and analyse information.
Your coursework will have honed your teamwork, communications, time management and self-motivation skills.
You will also have the flexibility to adapt to changes in technology, to innovate, and to critically evaluate the implications of exploiting new technologies.
We work closely with partners in industry who advise us on our curriculum, to make sure it keeps abreast of the latest market needs and trends.
This means our graduates are up-to-speed with the latest developments and ready to contribute to the next generation of computing systems.
In recent years, they have successfully pursued careers in everything from network systems design and web development, to business management and finance.
They now work in organisations such as Amazon, American Express, Apple, Bupa, Capita, CGI-Logica, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Symantec, among many others.
Find out more about what some of our graduates are doing here .
We run jobs fairs and a short-term work placement scheme, and your personal adviser and the campus Careers team will be on hand to offer advice on career opportunities.
We maintain strong links with our alumni, who can often provide advice, contacts and networking opportunities.
Source: The Complete University Guide, 2026
Source: REF 2021
Source: The Times Good University Guide, 2025

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/drama-theatre-and-dance/drama-and-creative-writing:
Drama and Creative Writing
UCAS code: WW48
By combining the study of Creative Writing with Drama, you'll gain a deeper understanding of how theatre performance and creative writing interact - whether you specialise as a playwright, or choose to take the poetry or fiction options in creative writing.
Choosing to study Drama at Royal Holloway will put you at the centre of one of the largest and most influential Drama and Theatre departments in the world.
You'll create performances, analyse texts, and bring a range of critical ideas to bear on both.
On this course the text and the body, thinking and doing, work together.
There's no barrier between theory and practice: theory helps you understand and make the most of practice, while practice sheds light on theory.
By moving between the two, you'll find your place as an informed theatre-maker, and by studying a variety of practices, by yourself and with others, you'll get knowledge of the industry as a whole, and learn how your interests could fit into the bigger picture.
We are top-rated for teaching and research, with a campus community recognised for its creativity.
Our staff cover a huge range of theatre and performance studies, but we're particularly strong in contemporary British theatre, international and intercultural performance, theatre history, dance and physical theatre, and contemporary performance practices.
Studying Creative Writing at one of the UK's most dynamic English departments will challenge you to develop your own critical faculties.
Learning to write creatively, you'll develop your own writing practice.
Course units are taught by nationally and internationally known scholars, authors, playwrights and poets who are specialists in their fields who write ground-breaking books, talk or write in the national media and appear at literary festivals around the world.
You will take the following modules in Drama:
In this module you will develop an understanding of a range of literary and cultural writing forms through reading, discussion and practice.
You will look at poetry, drama and prose fiction alongside stand-up comedy, adaptation, translation, songwriting, and other forms of creative expression and articulation.
You will learn how to offer clear, constructive, sensitive critical appraisals, and how to accept and appropriately value criticism of your own work.
In this module you will develop an understanding of a range historical perspectives on the function, forms, and value of creative writing.
You will look at the genesis of particular genres, such as the short story, the novel and the manifesto, and consider relationships between historical genres and the contemporary writer.
You will interrogate your own assumptions about creative writing and critically examine the relationship between creative writing and society.
This module concentrates on a particular mode of writing, genre, theme, issue or idea.
You will be encouraged to make creative work in relation to the focus, and develop your writing practice in relation to wider contexts relevant to the contemporary writer.
Creative Writing Special Focus courses are open to both creative writing and non-creative writing students.
In this module you will develop an understanding of non-traditional approaches to performance making that constitute the broader term ‘devised’ practice.
You will look at methods of engaging with contemporary life, focussing on a number of key areas of devised practice, including their contexts, forms, and modes of documentation.
You will consider the generative roles played by autobiography, the body, political activism and everyday life and use theoretical and practical research to develop your own performance pieces.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the methods of theatre directing.
You will look at the role of the director from preparing a play text to staging a successful production, considering the collaborations between actors, designers, playwrights and producers.
You will exmaine a variety of approaches to classic texts and new writing, and hone your skills by directing your peers in short scenes from a play of your choice.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the difference between stage acting and acting for camera.
You will learn techniques for 'translating' your stage acting skills to mediated performance.
You will collaborate through the year with directing students in the Department of Media Arts on an internal monologue film, a silent film, and a short scene, and these can later be used as part of an audition reel.
In this module you will develop an understanding of a range of theatre forms that integrate dance and drama.
You will look at the variety of ways that practitioners have chosen to bring text and movement into creative dialogue, using scores, play texts, choreography and movement processes.
You will examine the values and principles that drive such experimentation and reflect on the historical, political and cultural contexts within which these practitioners worked.
You will consider the work of practitioners such as Pina Bausch, DV8, Frantic Assembly, Complicite, Caryl Churchill and Martin Crimp, and develop a small group performance devised in response to selected texts and styles of movement/dance.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the role of spatial design in a performance context.
You will look at how designers respond to and make space for theatre to happen, and through the study of visual composition and visual langauge, will explore the role of spatial design in a performance context.
You will consider the the work of a variety of practitioners and will test out your design ideas in a series of practical and performance workshops focusing on textual analysis, space and place, object, performer and the spectator.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how theatre practitioners have frequently sought to represent social reality in order to critique it.
You will look at the naturalist stage of the late nineteenth century through to contemporary verbatim performance, and explore the methods and implications of theatre’s 'reality-effects'.
You will consider why so many theatre companies and practitioners in the twenty-first century have turned to documentary, tribunal, verbatim and other forms of reality-based performance, and examine a range of contemporary plays and performance texts from around the world, building an awareness of the politics, possibilities and limitations of 'staging the real'.
In this module you will look at the work of debbie tucker green, one of the most exciting black playwrights of the early twenty first century, who's critical acclaim has recognised her original experimental linguistic virtuosity.
You will explore the the performance possibilities of her playtexts, considering writing form alongside the topical social and political human rights issues she portrays, such as genocide, urban teenage violence, sex tourism and mental health.
You will consider tucker green’s impact as a black British woman playwright by situating her plays in relation to trends in plays by other contemporary black British women playwrights, and examine her work within the context of 21st Century black British new writing.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the wide-ranging discussions of ecology and environmentalism in Shakespeare's plays.
You will look at the relations between humans and the natural world, and consider contemporary environmental debates and theatre practices.
Guest speakers, such as David Haygarth, Head of Energy and Sustainability at Royal Holloway, will address scientific and commercial topics such as the UN 15 sustainable development goals, and the Caryl Churchill Theatre’s green credentials.
You will explore a range of plays by Shakespeare which stage the natural world, including A Midsummer Night’s Dream, As You Like It, King Lear, and The Merry Wives of Windsor.
You will also examine how environmentalism can impact both theatre and Shakespeare in performance.
In this module you will develop an understanding of children's theatre and the current success of theatre for young audiences.
You will look at the innovative performance styles of theatre companies such as Oily Cart and Theatre-rites, and consider how their work has been pushing the boundaries of contemporary theatre.
You will examine the Unicorn theatre, the first purpose-built theatre for children in London; playwrights such as Charles Way, Philip Ridley, Neil Duffield, Mark Ravenhill and David Greig; and the work of theatremakers such as Mark Storor and Sue Buckmaster, who bring a blend of visual art, puppetry and live art to performances for children.
You will critically analyse how performance installations can excite children’s imaginations, focusing on the visual, tactile and aural elements of theatre and performance.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the diverse art forms that investigate memory in dynamic conversation and the nature of art, history, and humanity.
You will look at the disruption to the purpose, value, and nature of art in the aftermath of the cataclysmic events of the Holocaust, and move through the twentieth century to consider different cultures of memory, memorialisation, trauma, and witnessing.
You will examine a wide range of cultural textual and performative genres, including first-hand testimony, plays, films, graphic novels, museums, and public monuments.
In this module you will develop an embodied understanding of culture.
You will look at different cultural contexts for dance production, considering the context of where, when and how you dance.
You will examine the cultural production and consumption of dance, exploring theories grounded in cultural studies and their implications on dance and dancing bodies, such as Marxism, post-modernism, feminism, post-structuralism, post-colonialism, gender and sexuality, and psychoanalysis.
You will focus on popular dance, global popular culture, and dance on screen, and investigate the relationship between dance practices and the social, political and economic context in which they emerge.
You will be encouraged to devise performances which creatively engage with cultural studies.
Each year, you'll take two modules in each subject.
Drama explores a whole range of dramatic and theatrical forms, conventions, periods, traditions and activities.
You'll learn how to get intellectual ideas across in presentations and through performance.
You'll also learn to work well in teams.
In your first year, a foundation course, you'll get a grounding in contemporary theatremaking and critical theories.
In your second and final years, you'll study alongside single honours students, taking half of your modules in Drama.
In your first year of Creative Writing, you'll take two introductory modules, before going on in your second year to specialise in two literary forms.
In your final year, you'll wrap up by taking one of those forms to honours level.
The course has a flexible structure: students take twelve course units, four per year.
Some are compulsory, and others you can choose.
In your second and third years, you'll make up the marks that count for your final degree award.
You'll also take a study skills course during your first year, to equip you with writing skills to make your degree count.
This course won't count towards your final degree, but you'll need to take it to pass on to second year.
You'll be assessed through examinations, essays, seminar presentations, practical assignments and creative portfolios.
In Drama modules, you'll often be assessed as part of a group.
Required subjects: A in an essay-based Arts and Humanities subject at A-Level At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including Maths and English.
All teaching at Royal Holloway (apart from some language courses) is in English.
There are plenty of performance opportunities to get stuck into while you're here, and they'll stand you in good stead when you graduate.
You'll be familiar and confident in performance situations (skills which are vital for leading meetings and make you viable for visible leadership roles).
You'll come off as credible and composed.
You'll also walk away with considerable experience of technical, intellectual, imaginative, and practical skills, valued by most employers.
Aside from these performance skills, you'll also get skills in research and project management from the academic side of the course.
Our industry links mean you'll be able to pursue work experience with theatres and creative arts agencies.
Recent graduates in the Department of Drama & Theatre have gone into careers in acting, writing, broadcasting (including at the BBC), literary agency, arts management, sound design, marketing/PR, teaching and community theatre work, as well as postgraduate study in different fields.
Lots of our graduates also start their own performing arts companies.
Find out more about what our graduates are doing now.
Other essential costs***: There are no single associated costs with studying this course greater than £50 per item.
It is a requirement to purchase a pair of safety boots in the first year, for which a range of cost options are available.
Ticket costs for mandatory theatre trips are capped at £10.
Source: QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2024 (Drama, Theatre and Dance)
Source: Complete University Guide, 2025 (Drama, Theatre and Dance)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/earth-sciences/earth-climate-and-environmental-change:
Earth, Climate and Environmental Change
UCAS code: F764
Earth, Climate and Environmental Change MSci
UCAS code: F767
Through Science and in everyday life we understand that climate change is happening all around us.
As our planet continues to warm up and climate patterns change, bringing extreme and unpredictable weather, environments will become hotter, drier or wetter, and the natural resources we rely upon will become increasingly threatened and all life of Earth will be severely impacted.
Fieldwork is the glue that brings together all aspects of the taught programme in Earth Sciences, as well as providing a chance for staff and students to get to know each other.
The fieldwork programme is designed to provide progressive training throughout your degree.
The fieldwork programme includes year 1 trips to Devon, Pembrokeshire, Charnwood Forest, and Oxfordshire and year 3 trips to Southwest England.
There is also the opportunity for fieldwork in the third-year project.
This module introduces the 4.6 billion-year history of our Evolving Earth and provides you with the skills to interpret that history.
The module is subdivided into two complimentary streams that closely integrate.
One stream (palaeontology) considers the story of life from its origin to the rise and fall of the dinosaurs, concluding with our own recent human evolution.
It focuses on major events in evolution, and introduces you to the key concepts including systematic palaeontology, palaeoecology, palaeobiology, evolution, and taphonomy.
The other stream (sedimentology) considers earth surface processes and palaeoenvironments and teaches you how to recognise the changing environments through time using techniques including rock classification, textural analysis, facies analysis and graphic logging, palaeoflow analysis, and stratigraphy.
Because life and environments have co-evolved and are co-dependent, palaeontology and sedimentology need to be taught in close parallel, providing you with a powerful synthetic understanding of how our Earth has evolved in the past and continues to change in the future.
With the adoption of the Paris Agreement and the recent COP26, a seismic societal shift towards issues related to sustainability and climate change is taking place globally.
The next generation of geoscientists are now required to understand the complex interrelations between human activities and a changing Earth system.
With this module, students will explore key themes at the core of human-Earth interaction such as anthropogenic climate change, geohazards, environmental pollution, and sustainable exploitation of energy resources and energy-critical elements.
In this module you will develop an understanding of basic concepts in chemistry and physics and how to apply these to geological processes.
You will look at atoms and atomic structure, the periodic table of elements, reactions, equations, geochemical analysis, the composition of the earth, interpretation of phase diagrams, solubility of minerals, weathering and the hydrological cycle.
You will also consider Newton’s Laws, kinematics, circular motion, planetary orbits, gravity, magnetism, electricity, resistivity, stress, strain, seismicity, isostasy, radioactivity, and geochronology.
In this module you develop an understanding of the skills required to practice geology in the field, carrying out a series of activities in South Devon and Pembrokeshire.
You will learn to describe and interpret the origin of sedimentary, igneous and metamorphic rocks and how to prepare a geological map and cross-section using standard symbols.
You will examine stereographic projections, sedimentary logging, the construction of stratigraphic columns for the identification of rocks, and the analysis of structural features using stereonets.
In this research led module skills in scientific writing, communication and data interpretation will be developed alongside an understanding of current research topics in Earth, Climate and Environmental Change.
A series of seminars will be led by experts on a range of research topics in the field of Earth, Climate and Environmental change.
From these seminars, you will gain an understanding of cutting edge research and the way in which research projects are planned and carried out.
A literature review exercise on one of the research topics from the seminar series will be undertaken with support from tutors.
You will receive training in techniques for literature searching, synthesising a large quantity of literature and reference managing.
Data interpretation skills will be developed through a short guided quantitative project.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the hazards associated with geological activity, their causes, and approaches to risk management.
You will look at volcanoes, earthquakes, and radon, and the hazards associated with the exploitation of geological resources and associated anthropogenic activity, including asbestos, the mining industry, and contaminated land.
You will examine a variety of geological and geochemical data, and learn to interpret and analyse these in order to make scientifically justified decisions as to the level of risk.
In this module you will develop an understanding of advanced chemical concepts relevant to the Earth Sciences.
You will focus on isotope geochemistry and consider techniques that are directly applicable in most geological contexts.
You will attend practical classes and conduct a small project involving the analysis and interpretation of a real geochemical dataset.
By the end of the module students should: Have gained an appreciation of some aspects of anthropogenic impact on the environment by visiting a range of field sites Understand the principles of environmental sampling, including sampling strategies, sources of error and sample contamination issues Have gained experience of a range of sample preparation methods and how to produce analytical data for a number of different sample types Understand how ICP-AES can be used for environmental analysis and gained practical experience of laboratory techniques Have gained experience of safe laboratory working practices Have developed team working skills, including time management, negotiation, and co-operation Have further developed their data analysis and report writing skills.
Be able to plan and undertake an independent field-based environmental project.
The purpose of this module is to embed GIS and programming skills for the creation, analysis and interpretation of geospatial data and coding skills to facilitate data collection, analysis, modelling and interpretation.
The module explains the origin of GIS and trains students in the creation of georeferenced point, line and polygon data, combine raster and vector data, and data analysis.
It also introduces Python and the use of arrays, reading and writing, branching and repeating, and plotting.
Projects can be field and/or laboratory based, generating new scientific data, or they can be computational, analysing existing data that has not been subject to detailed and critical analysis.
Early in term 1 you will submit a project plan to the supervisor and course leader and will receive written feedback on the project plan.
Formative feedback will also be provided at the end of term 1 following presentations showing progress made so far.
You will be expected to regularly meet with your project supervisor for guidance.
At the end of the project you will present the results of your research as a scientific report and as an oral presentation.
This module will provide you with a working knowledge of basic meteorology.
The module will begin with atmospheric basics and terminology including didactic sessions and workshops/practicals on solar radiation, thermodynamics, water vapour, stability, clouds and precipitation.
It will progress into skill sessions (lectures and practicals) on radar, interpreting satellite maps and weather reports and finish with sessions (lectures and practicals) putting it all together (review and consolidation) for understanding of winds, fronts, air masses and thunderstorms.
The module will finish up with lectures and practicals demonstrating how basic meteorological understanding can be applied for career useful consideration of meteorological hazards: tropical and extra tropical cyclones, regional winds boundary layers and pollutant dispersal, numerical weather prediction and atmospheric optics.
This course has two main aims:
1) To introduce you to the evidence for and mechanisms of modern climate change – what climate change is, how the climate change is manifested, what physical mechanisms are driving it, and what its future status might be.
2) Methods of research in multi-disciplinary topics, report writing, and communication of complex ideas for policy makers using Earth Science as a subject matter.
The Earth’s climate has changed across geological time, due to the interaction of a huge array of inter-related climate forcing agents.
These changes have been reconstructed using many different lines of chemical, biological and physical proxy data, and mechanistically interrogated using computer simulations (Earth-System models).
In this module, you will be taught about the key features of major climatic events in Earth’s history and should gain an appreciation of the typical rates and magnitudes of change that characterise these episodes.
A key aim of the module is to demonstrate some of the techniques used for quantitative palaeoclimate reconstruction, and for you to learn the critical evaluation skills needed to interpret these datasets.
These skills will be developed through class practical exercises and a summative task that requires the interpretation of a raw palaeoclimate dataset.
The module will cover hazards associated with geological activity, their causes and risk management including topics such as volcanoes and earthquakes, and those associated with anthropogenic activity such as mining and land contamination.
Students will work in small groups to investigate geohazards pertinent to a city of their choice, bringing together all aspects of the course including physical, chemical and anthropogenic hazards.
Formative assessments draw together a variety of geological, numerical and geochemical data that require analysis and interpretation of these data.
Under the guidance of a departmental supervisor the student will design and execute an independent research project.
The project may utilise data collected in the field, laboratory, and/or scientific literature.
Data handling using statistical or GIS techniques must be integrated into the project.
Departmental facilities are available for use by students either in supplementing data already acquired or in producing their main database.
BSc Geology and MSci Geoscience projects must be based on a minimum of 21 days of mapping, either through field observations or digitally using remote sensing and other data as appropriate (which need not be terrestrial).
Projects based on field observations will be supporting by at least one day of guidance in the field by a departmental supervisor.
Students on other departmental degree courses must complete a project in a topic appropriate to their degree.
Guidance on data analysis and presentation will be provided in timetabled classes following the data collection stage.
All students submit a written report, with other material as required, in a style appropriate to their topic (e.g.
consultancy report, scientific paper) and give an oral presentation at the end of their project.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the key events in the history of life and their environmental impact using the fossil and sedimentary record.
You will analyse fossil assemblages using stratigraphic principles such as absolute dating, lithostratigraphy, biostratigraphy and sequence stratigraphy.
You will consider how to interpret sedimentary rocks, and examine the importance of fossil assemblages in the interpretation of events in earth history.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the theory and practice of seismic, gravity, magnetic and resistivity surveying.
You will consider the methods used to manipulate, analyse, and display geophysical data to solve geological exploration problems, and examine the strengths and weaknesses of the different data types.
The module will introduce you to the principles of deep and shallow geothermal energy and its current and potential use for producing electricity and space heating (and, for heat pumps, also space cooling).
Geothermal energy is the close to other geological topics such as hydrogeology, volcanology, and hydrocarbon reservoirs.
The module will underline the ideal combination between geothermal energy (steady source – always there) and other but non-steady renewable sources (solar, wind and wave energy).
The module will provide clear and detailed overviews on the main geothermal energy sources, namely (1) shallow geothermy (heat pumps), (2) hot-dry-rock (enhanced geothermal systems), and (3) natural geothermal (hydrothermal) systems, both in sedimentary basins and in active volcanic areas.
Highly successful projects (most shallow geothermy and natural systems project) and the less successful (many hot-dry-rock projects) will be analysed to learn from them.
The focus is on quantitative methods for understanding and using geothermal systems, including the basic physical principles that control the formation and maintenance of such systems, petrophysical principles, thermal principles, and using large datasets to assess the potential of geothermal systems in different geological environments.
The module also covers the environmental, political/social, and economic aspects of the exploration and use of geothermal energy.
The module aims to provide the students with knowledge and skills for analysing and exploring geothermal energy, both shallow and deep, in the UK and worldwide.
The aim of the course is to provide students with practical and analytical skills in Geochemistry and provide a geochemical stream throughout the degree programme.
The focus of the course is on practical skills.
Practical analytical skills are highly sought after in industrial and academic geological research and will allow future non-practitioners to understand the constraints of modern Geochemical analysis.
The course will be run in two streams: The first stream will be weekly one hour lectures/workshops which will concentrate on the theory of analysis of air, water and solid samples for isotopic ratios, uncertainty propagation, advanced isotopic techniques and weathering.
The second stream will be weekly three-hour practicals in the departmental research laboratories.
Practicals will be designed to collect and analyse air, water and solid samples, prepare the samples for analysis, run on the relevant machine, reduce the data and interpret the data with uncertainty and then write up as a report for one formative and two summative pieces of assessment.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the structure and evolution of the Solar System, with a focus on the physical and chemical properties of planetary bodies.
You will study the formation of the Solar System and explore the processes that shape planetary surfaces, including impact cratering, volcanism, tectonism and erosion.
You will examine planetary interiors and atmospheres, and learn how to interpret remote sensing data using techniques from geology, geophysics and geochemistry.
The module also includes a detailed study of the Earth–Moon system, terrestrial and giant planets, planetary satellites, comets and meteorites.
You will learn to evaluate scientific data, test hypotheses, and communicate key findings from planetary science and space missions.
The module will introduce you to the Geoscience (and wider background) needed to understand the exploitation of the subsurface for the storage of carbon dioxide (to reduce greenhouse gas emissions) and the storage of renewable energy (e.g.
compressed air storage within salt).
These new uses of the subsurface are expected to become significant businesses through the 2020s (in response to the Paris Climate Agreement), and the Petroleum Industry has the necessary skills, knowledge and resources to develop these.
Consequently, many of our future graduates will likely find significant career opportunities in these new areas rather than in traditional hydrocarbon extraction.
The module introduction will cover the environmental, economic, political and social background so that you understand the business model that will enable this new industry (specifically the how and why of carbon pricing).
You will then investigate the geophysical methods required to evaluate potential subsurface structures.
You will also look at the science behind subsurface utilization (e.g.
issues such as what structures and sediments are needed and how these are similar to, or different from, the structures and sediments that form hydrocarbon reservoirs).
In summary, the module aim is to produce graduates who can explore and exploit sedimentary basins in all the ways they are likely to be important during the 21st century.
Classroom teaching methods are highly diverse including lectures, practicals, tutorials, fieldtrips, and other learning modes.
Students will typically spend 75% of each module (90 of 120 hrs) engaged on independent tasks; however, this will vary, module-to-module, to reflect the diverse fields being synthesised, and diverse subject-specific approaches to teaching, with practical lab-based or field-based modules having higher level of classroom time.
Students on this course will benefit from pastoral support from a personal tutor.
A combination of assessment methods will be used (exam, projects, coursework, moodle quizzes, presentations and team exercises)  and innovative assessment modes will be encouraged as new modules are developed for this course.
Required subjects: A-level in at least one science-based subject such as Mathematics, Physics, Geology, Chemistry, Geography or Biology.
You will graduate equipped with the specialist knowledge and practical skills to tackle the scientific challenges of a rapidly changing world, ideally prepared for a scientific or technical career in your chosen field.
Graduate destinations include postgraduate research, climate and environmental consultancy, analytical careers, Government/civil service, remote sensing agencies and regulatory bodies.
Climate service companies, mining, extractive, and energy industries employ a large number of Earth Scientists to handle their environmental/climate obligations.
The majority of our graduates are working in geological careers, addressing global problems like climate change and waste disposal, or have a role in global exploration for the raw materials we need – water, minerals, oil and gas.
Many others go on to study for a PhD degree and become a research scientist.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/economics/economics:
BSc (Econ)
UCAS code: L101
Economics with a Year in Business
UCAS code: L102
Elevate your understanding of the world with our dynamic Economics degree.
At Royal Holloway, we offer more than just a degree; we provide a transformative educational experience that equips you with the knowledge and skills needed to navigate the complexities of global economies.
Dive deep into economic theories, financial markets, and policy analysis.
Our comprehensive curriculum ensures you gain a solid foundation in microeconomics, macroeconomics, and econometrics, empowering you to decipher the forces shaping societies and markets.
Whether you aspire to work in finance, public policy, or international development, our Economics course opens doors to a myriad of opportunities.
Join us and embark on a journey where your passion for understanding economies transforms into a powerful career.
Working with leading researchers, you will learn to dissect economic trends, conduct robust data analysis, and make informed decisions that drive success for businesses, governments, and non-profit organisations.
You will be trained to use market-leading software, including python and R, and be offered the opportunity to work toward certifications in each.
Students benefit from our newly created data lab facilities.
Learn from accomplished faculty members who are not only experts in their fields but also dedicated mentors invested in your academic and professional success.
Principles of Economics is a first-year undergraduate module in how the economy works.
The module is suitable for students with or without A-Level economics or equivalent.
We will cover the basic theories of macroeconomics (that of the economy as a whole) and microeconomics (the behaviour of individuals, firms and governments and the interactions between them).
The module adopts the state-of-the-art CORE approach (Curriculum Open-access Resources in Economics) to teaching Principles of Economics.
The approach has three pillars which we rely on throughout the module:
Data Skills for Economists is about understanding the data we encounter constantly in everyday life and the data that social science researchers create as they explore and analyse the world around us.
We'll endeavour to understand such questions as:
Computers equipped with statistical software are a big part of the answer to the third question (above) so, accordingly, you'll spend much of your time learning to analyse and display data using the R statistical software package (R is the industry standard).
We'll develop an ethos of clear communication of numerical information that will be supported by our growing understanding of statistical concepts and our growing proficiency with computers.
Simultaneously, we'll delve into the seamy underside of the tricksters who try to fool you with falsified data.
Understanding their game can provide at least some degree of inoculation against their attacks.
On this module you’ll learn how to think like an economist, by learning to write essays, how to present data, how to collect economic data and how to do economic research.
There are four sections each lasting half a term.
The sections are economic institutions, economic history, applied economics and policy & experimental & behavioural economics.
In each section, students get an overview/introduction to the topic based on economic theory which is followed by some applications/data.
The aims of the module are to cover the basic mathematical and quantitative tools used by economists every day.
The module gives an emphasis to the mathematical tools, which are applicable to solving a wide range of economic problems.
The first half of the module is devoted to linear algebra, specific functions of one and more variables used in economics, manipulating those functions and finding their minima and maxima.
In addition, the first half of this module delivers the rules of integration and differentiation, which prepares the you to apply constrained and unconstrained optimisation techniques in their subsequent 2nd and 3rd year of studies.
Constrained and unconstrained optimisation techniques are also discussed.
The second half of the module is devoted to optimisation theory which in turn will use the concepts of vectors and matrices, drawn from linear algebra, and require the study of concave functions.
The knowledge of matrices will help you solve systems of linear equations, which are used in both microeconomic and macroeconomic planning and forecasting.
This module will be composed of an introduction to Employability, library resources, team building, and CV making.
Career services will provide a session on self-awareness and decision making and library services will present their relevant resources.
Finally, the Economics department will organise some team building exercises.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the models of individual optimisation and their applications.
You will look at the key determinants of an individual’s behaviour in a variety of circumstances and the behaviour of firms in different market environments, such as perfect competition, monopoly and oligopoly.
You will consider how changing circumstances and new information influences the actions of the economic agents concerned, and examine the properties of competitive markets and the need for government intervention to correct market failures.
In this module you will develop an understanding of macroeconomics and macroeconomic policy-making.
You will look at a variety of contemporary and historical macroeconomic events, and the differences between the short, medium and long run.
You will consider why some countries are rich and some are poor, why different economies grow at different rates, and what determines economic growth and prosperity.
You will examine the role of monetary and fiscal policy, its impact on the economy and its limitations.
You will also analyse how taxation, budget deficits, and public debt affect the economy.
The aim of this module is to provide you with a solid understanding of the essentials of empirical research techniques (i.e.
econometrics) used by applied economists.
The module will cover core econometric topics that are needed by all wishing to undertake econometric analysis, with a particular focus on topics in both time series and cross section econometrics that can be used by students of industrial, business and finance.
The aim of this module is to extend your knowledge of the essentials of empirical research techniques (i.e.
The module will build on the topics covered in Econometrics 1.
Career services will provide a session on how to be ready to apply for an internship at the end of the second year.
Students will prepare for a psychometric test and will undertake a series of a mock interviews in order to improve their interview technique.
Finally, students will attend at least one Econ@Work talk to be aware of professional life and challenges.
This third-year course will deepen the elements covered previously in Employability 1 and 2.
Career services will provide a session on how to be ready for employment at the end of the year.
Students will prepare for a psychometric test and undertake a series of mock interviews in order to improve their interview technique.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the economic principles underlying the working of national and international financial institutions.
You will look at what a financial system is and does, and the distinct functions of each component.
You will consider the key financial instruments and the relationship between assets, agents, and institutions, and learn to solve simple problems using quantitative and graphical tools.
You will critically evaluate country differences and analyse the interdependencies and rapid change of the modern financial world.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the principal-agent problem, the Coase theorem, theories of the firm, the role of transaction costs, moral hazard, adverse selection, and issues surrounding organisation, investment, governance and expansion of corporations.
You will look the role of incentivisation and how conflicts of interests shape economic interactions.
You will consider the role of transaction costs in determining the existence, scale and scope of firms, and examine why government regulation may be inferior to market solutions when dealing with externalities.
You will also analyse the developments of Anglo-American industrial and Japanese capitalism.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the process of economic growth at the world level, and the sources of income and growth differences across countries.
You will look at Piketty's work on income distribution and economic growth, Malthus' work on population and economic growth, and Solow's standard economic growth model.
You will examine why some countries are rich and some are poor, and consider the differences between countries that explain economic success and failures.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the mathematical models used to study and analyse strategic interactions between agents.
You will look at the fundamental concepts in game theory as applied to economics in general and microeconomics in particular.
You will become familiar with basic equilibrium concepts such as Nash equilibrium and subgame perfect equilibrium, and be able to find equilibrium outcomes of simple games including the use of backward induction.
The aim of the module is for students to understand how to use data in order to draw relevant conclusions, and how to present those conclusions.
This aim includes both how to abstractly think about data and data analysis, and how to concretely implement techniques using the Python programming language.
As the module serves as an introduction to the language, the first part of the module provides students with general programming tools, and, as the module progresses, these tools will become more and more focused on data science applications.
Of course, being an Economics module, these applications will take the form of economic and financial investigations.
As a lab class, students will have significant hands on experience with material and will investigate problems on their own, under the continued guidance of module leaders.
By the end of the term, students will have the tools to be able to conduct their own research projects.
As a final project, students will be provided with a dataset, asked to draw insights into it, and to present their findings both visually and narratively.
The aim of the module is to advance the quantitative skills of the students and familiarize them with the use of Python and R in empirical work in economics.
This includes collection, manipulation and presentation of data on economic phenomena, as well as the use of regression-based econometric techniques to draw causal inference and perform prediction and forecasting.
This module will analyse the economic issues of behaviour and outcomes in labour markets.
It will focus on topics relating to labour supply and demand, wage formation and earnings inequalities, e.g.: Labour Demand; Labour Supply; Human Capital and Compensating Wage Differentials; Inequality in Earnings; Labour Mobility; Discrimination; Unemployment.
The module presents the main facts about modern war and, to a lesser extent, terrorism.
In parallel we will develop broadly applicable empirical tools to help us measure key phenomena and drive our analysis.
Specific topics include the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Rwandan genocide, the economics of rebellion and the possible long-run decline of war.
This module, together with Economics of Warfare 2, will prepare students of a lifetime of critical data consumption beyond the particular world of war and terrorism.
The module aims to introduce the student to what factors affect corporate financial decisions.
Particular emphasis is given to the concepts of Net Present Value and Risk.
The learning outcomes include: Understand what the goals of a firm are; Understand how investments are valued (Internal rate of returns) in order to help with good financial planning); Understand the concepts of risk, agency costs and how they feed into financial decision making; Understand the process of price formation in financial markets; Understand venture capital and different types of debt finance and debt valuation, including leverage.
In this module you will develop an understanding of economic inequality.
You will look at the factors that determine wage differentials among workers from a theoretical and empirical point of view.
You will consider why similar workers are paid differently and examine how labour mobility can improve the allocation of workers to firms, enhance aggregate productivity, and reduce inequality.
This module equips students with the fundamental theoretical tools for the analysis of the banking sector and will be useful for anyone considering further study or a career in this area.
Topics covered include perfectly competitive and oligopolistic models of banking, moral hazard and adverse selection in the loan market, the macroeconomic implications of the credit market, the money multiplier, fractional reserve banking, bank runs, financial fragility and contagion.
The module’s textbook will be Freixas and Rochet “Microeconomics of Banking”, but will also use "Understanding Financial Crises", Clarendon Lectures in Finance by Franklin Allen and Douglas Gale.
The module applies the methodology of economics to the analysis of political behaviour and institutions.
Articles on social choice, constitutional theory, and public economics are studied alongside ones on voters, parties and pressure groups, macroeconomics and politics, capitalism and democracy.
Emphasis is placed on the rise of populism in Western democracies, economic strategies to mitigate it, as well as on political decisions around lockdowns in pandemics.
Students are exposed to advanced formal models of political behaviour and data techniques to explain recent political events.
The module provides an overview of the literature in development economics.
The overarching interest is what creates and what reduces poverty and how poor people live their economic lives.
Students will be introduced to theoretical and empirical approaches to the understanding of binding constraints to development, household decisions and organisation, effectiveness of public policy and alternative arrangements that arise when markets and institutions fail.
This module is a one-term module in international trade suitable for students with basic knowledge in microeconomics.
The module aims to further develop the student's analytical skills and to illustrate how these skills can be fruitfully applied to a variety of economic situations.
The primary objective of the module is to teach the theory of comparative advantage and the factor proportions theory of international trade and to critically discuss these theories and their relevance in understanding real world issues.
Empirical work requires obtaining the correct data for the question at hand, and nowhere has more data than the internet.
Nonetheless, the data created by our modern internet driven economy is not always structured or easily available.
The aim of the module is to provide students with the tools to be able to collect the right data to answer important economic questions.
These techniques include using APIs, static web scraping, and browser emulation for scraping dynamic webpages, all facilitated by the Python programming language.
Data visualization techniques are central to both for revealing structure and patterns in the data at hand and for conveying these patterns to relevant audiences -- it forms an integral part of the "data journey" from data acquisition, through analysis to product.
The aim of the module is to provide students with the tools to be able tackle data of various structures and natures and select and implement appropriate and efficient tools data visualization and presentation in current standard software, including R.
The content will introduce the notion of the psychology of data visualisation, outline key development tools and methods, describe how to achieve analytics storytelling for impact, distinguish between univariate- and multivariate analysis, and other forms of data -- e.g geographical and time-series data -- and structures including groups, hierarchies, networks and high-dimensional data.
Students will have significant hands-on experience with material and will investigate problems on their own, under the continued guidance of module leaders.
By the end of the module, students will have the tools to be able to conduct their own presentation and visualization choices, and create a portfolio of high-quality presentations of complex data structures.
This module provides students on the BSc Economics, BSc Economics and Data Science, BSc Financial and Business Economics, BSc Finance and Mathematics courses with an optional course in macroeconomic time series analysis.
The module material will focus on Bayesian time series analysis and will include examples of how to use Python via Jupyter Notebooks to implement the analysis in the course.
The content will be useful for any student aiming to begin a MSc in Economics or macroeconomics.
Upon completion of the module, students will be able to draw random samples from important distributions, estimate Bayesian regression models (including time-series Bayesian models), produce economic forecasts using Bayesian Time Series Models and communicate the results to others.
Teaching is mostly by means of lectures and seminars, the latter providing a forum for students to work through problem sets and applications in a smaller and more interactive setting.
Outside of scheduled teaching sessions, students work independently, or collaboratively, researching, reading and preparing for seminars.
Assessment is usually carried out by end of year examinations as well as class tests and assignments.
Final year students can choose to complete an extended essay, which offers students the chance to conduct an original piece of research.
Required subjects: GCSE Maths at grade A or 7.
An Economics degree at Royal Holloway will equip you with an enviable range of practical skills and can lead into a variety of career paths.
We will help you to recognise your own strengths, skills and abilities so that you can make strong applications for your chosen job or further study.
We also provide support through short dedicated careers modules, which include employability workshops, events and guest speakers.
Gain excellent career prospects in public and private management, financial institutions and government.
Our graduates are employed by companies such as Citigroup, Barclays, Bloomberg, Deloitte, KPMG and government departments such as the Ministry of Defence.
Accredited by CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants).
On completing this course you'll be able to apply for 4 exemptions.
Source: Economics degrees, 2025

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/electronic-engineering:
BEng
UCAS code: HH61
Electronic Engineering MEng
MEng
UCAS code: H61H
Electronic Engineering with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: H661
Electronic Engineering with a Year in Industry MEng
UCAS code: H6H1
Electronic Engineering with Integrated Foundation Year
UCAS code: HH6F
The products of Electronic Engineering are all around us in our lives.
The breakthroughs made by today's electronic engineers help to create the mobile devices, personal media, computers, smart transportation and domestic appliances we use every day, and also have a more profound impact on issues such as environmental sustainability, healthcare and information security.
This evolution creates a demand for people with a passion to enhance and deliver more sustainable technology, and there has never been a more exciting time to study Electronic Engineering.
Study at Royal Holloway's Department of Electronic Engineering and you'll have access to a purpose-designed building, with £20 million invested in state-of-the-art equipment and facilities including labs, collaboration and research spaces.
You'll benefit from research-led teaching from expert academics building international reputations in diverse fields including renewable energy and music technology.
You will enjoy a rewarding blend of practical and theoretical study, working in pairs, groups and individually with one-on-one support from your own Personal Advisor.
Opportunities for student placements, internships and industry relevant projects will enrich your degree, and our connection with industry advisors ensures that your course covers latest knowledge and skills to encourage entrepreneurship and market awareness in all stages of your learning.
Join us at our beautiful, well-established Surrey campus within easy reach of London.
You'll become a part of a vibrant, international student community as you prepare for a rewarding career in your chosen field.
Follow your passion for the creative, innovative world of Electronic Engineering and develop the ingenuity, invention and product development skills you need to thrive in this rapidly expanding industry.
Working in groups, you will carry out a project using methods and techniques that parallel industrial practice.
You will develop prototypes which solve one or more elements of a given issue.
You will look at digital logic in the context of combinational and sequential logic with discrete logic gate circuits (AND, NOT, OR, NAND, XOR, XNOR) and consider how their responses can be modelled in practice using Boolean algebra, truth tables, De Morgan's theorem and Karnaugh maps.
You will also become familiar with the professional team working attitudes and skills required to take projects from inception to the fabrication of a final product prototype.
In this module you will develop an understanding of programming in C++.
You will learn how to use mathematical and computer-based models to solve electronic engineering problems and how to apply quantitative methods in C++.
You will look at the concept of a computer program and compilation in the context of objective-orientated programming, and examine the digital representation of numbers, user interfacing, printing to screen, iterative and conditional statements, and error handling.
The aim of this module is to provide theoretical and practical knowledge of electronic components and their use in circuits.
This module covers the electrical properties of both passive (including resistors, capacitors, inductors) and active electronic components (including diodes, photo diodes, LEDs, transistors, ICs, opto-isolators, opto-couplers) and how they are typically used in practical circuits during laboratory sessions.
The design and analysis of analogue circuit behaviour is covered in the context of the use of phasors to represent voltage-current phase differences, transient and steady-state design and analysis of passive and active filters, time and frequency domain representations of the small signal responses of amplifier circuits.
The aim of this module is to provide an introduction theoretical and practical knowledge of communications engineering.
In terms of indicative content, this module will include the description of a signal and its characterisation in the time and frequency domains, considerations, introduction to analogue and digital signals; linear time invariance, random variables, Gaussian random processes, probability, thermal noise; introduction to modulation techniques including RF modulation, spectral and power considerations, pre-emphasis and de-emphasis, baseband recovery, error detection and correction, PLLs, multiplexing; introduction to digital signal transmission including sampling theorem, a2d and d2a conversion and quantisation, numbers of bits, error bit probabilities, introduction to digital signal processing.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to solve problems involving one variable (either real or complex) and differentiate and integrate simple functions.
You will learn how to use vector algebra and geometry and how to use the common probability distributions.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to solve problems involving more than one variable.
You will learn how to use matrices and solves eigenvalue problems, and how to manipulate vector differential operators, including gradient, divergence and curl.
You will also consider their physical significance and the theorems of Gauss and Stokes.
In this module you will move from prototype design to product creation.
Working in groups, you will take on a specific management function within the context of industrial practice.
You will use the results of analysis and apply technology by implementing engineering processes to solve engineering problems.
You will demonstrate the ability to use relevant materials, equipment, tools, processes or products and use creativity and innovation in a practical context to establish an innovative solution.
The aim of this module is to provide theoretical and practical knowledge of software engineering for electronics.
This module introduces software engineering processes including the software lifecycle and the techniques used to produce and manage complex, fit-for-purpose, safe, large, cost-effective software systems in practice from both a technical and non-technical point of view.
The concepts of software design, analysis and creation will be explored in the context of real-world examples and software architectures.
The aim in this module is to understand the mathematical interactions that the combination of various system types impose upon signals and their conveyance in communication applications, quantifying the interplay of deterministic cost factors such as bandwidth, energy, power and interference.
The aim of this module is to provide theoretical and practical knowledge in control engineering.
This module will make extensive use of MATLAB and the control toolbox in the context of solving control engineering problems and its indicative content includes the step response of first and second order systems and the effect of varying the time constant on overshoot and settling times, the use of bode plots, root locus, Nyquist plots, error estimation.
Practical control systems will be explored theoretically and practically.
The aim of this module is to provide theoretical and practical knowledge on the materials that underpin electronic devices.
The indicative content for this module encompasses the solid-state physical macro- and nano-scale properties of solid conductor, insulator, semiconductor and optoelectronic materials that make them useful in electronic devices, their structures, the behaviour of electrons, electrical conduction, lattice vibration, thermal conduction, how dopants are used, and their interaction with light where appropriate.
Existing electronic materials as well as future deveopments will be explored.
Analogue Electronic Systems  covers electronic engineering in content to extend and deepen your knowledge of electronic circuits and systems
This module introduces the full and holistic life cycle analysis in relation to electronic products and components, their environmental impact and sustainability.
You will develop an understanding of closed loop technology  renewable and sustainable technologies and challenges, motivators for sustainable engineering and the notion of ‘green engineering’.
Ethical and social impact of engineering and technology will be covered together with real-world case studies.
In this module you will engage in theoretical and practical work on an agreed specific area relevant to electronic engineering.
This will usually be a prototype that demonstrates the feasibility of a product or a fully functioning prototype depending on the nature of the topic itself.
You will be allocated a supervisor and progress will be monitored against the specification in terms of implementation and testing as appropriate.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the scientific principles underpinning practical signal processing.
You will look at the mathematics behind signal processing and consider new and emerging technologies within the field.
You carry out practical work in digital filter design involving the use of MATLAB.
In this module you will develop an understanding of modern techniques used in company management to tackle the challenges of the business sector.
You will look at company management structures, company finance, statuary requirements, human resource management, project management techniques, managing risks, health and safety requirements, and how to deal with problems that arise during the project lifecycle.
You will consider the role of codes of practice and industry standards, and examine relevant legal requirements governing engineering activities.
This course module will help you develop your knowledge and understanding of advanced digital systems design.
You will learn the principles of designing digital logic circuits, hardware description languages and control unit design, acquire the skills to design controllers from written specifications, and evaluate and make decisions about specific digital system designs.
In this module you will develop an understanding of a range of renewable energy generation concepts.
You will look at technologies such as wind generators, solar generation, hydro and marine generation concepts, geothermal dynamics and biofuels.
You will consider the different sources of primary energy as well as the energy conversion and electricity generation principals that are exploited.
Using your engineering skills, you will build your own renewable micro-generators.
In this module you will develop an understanding of voice synthesis, recognition and processing in the context of present-day and future engineering systems that make use of a voice input or output.
You will look at the synthesis of human speech and singing in terms of the sound source and sound modifiers in practice to create electronic voice signals.
You will consider standard voice processing techniques, used, for example, to enhance speech quality and to remove background noise and improve perceived voice quality.
You will also examine techniques used for automatic speech recognition, such as Apple's 'Siri' system.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the human factors in healthcare engineering.
You will look at critical safety issues in healthcare engineering and material compatibility in the context of implantable devices.
You will consider the operation of systems such as eye trackers, hearing aids, cochlear implants, pacemakers, wearable health monitors and examine the role of assistive technologies, electronic enhancement for condition diagnosis, medical robots and drug delivery control.
All taught modules are worth 15 credit units and there are eight of these in all years except the final year (year 3), where there is an individual project worth 30 credit units.
In many modules you will carry out practical project work, involving problem-solving using theory developed within the module and electronic circuit building and/or software skills as appropriate.
Teaching activities will include lectures, workshops and seminars, and practical project work will be carried out in groups and individually in purpose-built thinking and fabrication laboratories.
Various assessment methods will be used including examinations for theoretical subjects, formal presentations, reports and practical demonstrations for project work with an additional viva voce examination for final year individual projects.
You will be expected to review material after lectures to support your learning and to preview scripts before coming to laboratory sessions.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills are highly valued and sought after in the industrial workplace and are essential for effective group working.
You will develop these as part of project-based work and will be assessed formally on them.
All students will have an allocated Personal Advisor as someone with whom any issues can be discussed to enable appropriate advice and help to be given as appropriate.
Required subjects: A-level in Mathematics At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and Mathematics.
Study at Royal Holloway, University of London Department of Electronic Engineering and lay the foundations for a rewarding career in your chosen field.
Graduates of Electronic Engineering have excellent employment prospects, with an abundance of well-paid job opportunities in an expanding industry struggling to cope with a significant skills shortage.
You’ll develop a strong transferable skillset including verbal and written communication skills, team work and commercial awareness, preparing you for a career in a range of areas within Electronic Engineering and beyond.
Royal Holloway is located within the South East regional hub of electronics businesses, meaning you’ll benefit from links to some of the top UK-based electronics companies.
On successful completion of this programme you will receive a degree accredited by The Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Source: Complete University Guide, 2026

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/geography/geography-bsc:
UCAS code: F800
Geography BA
UCAS code: L700
The interactions between humans and our physical world are fascinating, from our responses to the physical features and phenomena of our planet to the interplay between regional geographical characteristics and the cultures that call those regions home.
Study Geography at Royal Holloway, University of London and you’ll enjoy a universal subject, exploring topics including social development, patterns of trade and how geographic factors interact with both one another and human goals.
This adaptable course lets you choose from a range of optional modules to suit your preferences in years 2 and 3, from Political Geography to Global Warming to Post-Capitalist Cities.
Fieldwork is a key part of the experience of doing Geography at Royal Holloway.
As well as being excellent research training, our extensive programme of fieldwork helps bring the department together as a real community.
The department offers a substantial and exciting range of field trips in the UK and overseas.
Current locations include Cyprus, Spain, Malawi, Sicily, London and New York.
The cost of the Year 1 fieldtrip to Spain is included in the student fee.
You’ll benefit from a renowned research culture, with the highest quality research and teaching in a supportive learning environment.
You’ll acquire a broad range of skills and knowledge to take into your future career or further study and Geography graduates enjoy excellent employability prospects in a range of fields.
Study Geography at Royal Holloway at you’ll have access to state-of-the-art equipment, including world-class facilities for GIS, image analysis, advanced cartography and the physical and chemical analysis of soils, sediments and water.
Pursue your passion for Geography with us and graduate in a strong position to enjoy a rewarding career.
In this module you will develop and understanding of the factors that control the physical, biological and chemical forces which shape the Earth’s surface.
You will look at oceanic and atmospheric processes, plate tectonics, hydrology and coastal processes, glaciation, and arid environments.
In this module you will develop an understanding the complexity of the relationship between people and environment.
You will examine how and why ecosystems vary spatially and the impact of human activity, such as deforestation and agriculture, on the physical environment.
You will also consider the nature of environmental change, including climatology.
In this module you will engage with key issues in human geography.
You will consider human geography as a distinctive way to approach the world, examining key questions about globalisation, inequality, identity and the nature of place.
You will look at approaches to economic, cultural and historical geography, and the development of the discipline, celebrating geographers’ active involvement in the challenges facing humanity.
This module will introduce you to human geographical perspectives on political processes, societies, development and the environment.
You will develop an appreciation of the importance of scale, networks and spatial patterns, and how geographers have approached the challenges of inequality at local, national and global scales.
This module will provide you with an introduction to the methods for collecting, interpreting and presenting physical and human geographical information, in both the field and in the laboratory.
You will conduct physical and human geography fieldwork in the local area, with activities including surveying and mapping, vegetation sampling and identification, soil and water analysis, interpreting past history, exploratory and inferential data analysis, questionnaire design, interviewing, and visual and textual interpretation.
This module will provide you with an introduction to the use of Geographical Information Systems (GIS) in physical and human geographical research, giving you practical experience in the use of ArcMap (an industry-leading GIS software package).
You will look at the use of satellite remote sensing for geomorphological mapping, census classifications and boundaries, and volunteered geographic information.
In this module you will develop your practical research skills on a week-long field-trip to Andalusia in Southern Spain.
You will spend four days, guided by staff, looking at specific local examples of physical, environmental, social, economic and cultural processes.
You will then spend two days, working in small groups, conducting a short piece of original research on a topic of your choice.
In this module you will develop your skills in research design, data collection and analysis.
You will learn how to handle and process advanced human or physical geography data sets, and further your ability to apply geographical information systems (GIS) techniques.
You will also start to plan your dissertation, thinking about proposal design, and risk and research ethics assessments.
In this module you will have the opportunity to conduct field research in Cyprus, Malawi, New York, Sicily or London, with each destination focussing on a different area of Geography.
You will develop your ability to analyse and problem-solve in the field, collecting, interpreting and combining different types of geographical evidence.
The dissertation gives you an opportunity to undertake an individual piece of geographical research, on a topic of your choice, around 10,000 words in length.
You will be allocated a member of staff as a dissertation adviser who will provide advice on research design, data collection and analysis.
Through this dissertation route, students undertake an individual and independent piece of geographical research in conjunction with a placement organisation.
Overall, the aim of this collaborative approach is for students to learn how to connect knowledge and approaches to human or physical geographical research with those practiced in partner organisations.
Students will also gain workplace skills including performing in a team of experts within a professional environment.
This module focuses on the use and management of resources, in the context of inputs and outputs to environmental systems, with an emphasis on processes and the impacts of human activities.
Throughout the course, students gain hands-on experience through practical work relating to the processes, functioning and management of environmental systems in the context of sustainability.
These practical elements form the basis of the formal assessment.
Students develop an understanding of resource use and waste impacts at a range of levels, particularly global, regional and local, and over a range of time scales, investigating ideas of direct impact and environmental storage of materials.
This material will be taught with links to physical processes, but will inevitably include links between human exploitation of environments and environmental impacts.
This module focuses on two overall themes: 1) the earth surface processes responsible for shaping the physical landscape and 2) natural hazards, where extreme earth surface process events pose a societal risk.
The course is centred on the following key geomorphological systems: slopes, rivers, glaciers and dunes.
Key hazards covered relating to these systems include landslides, floods, glacier lake outburst floods and dust storms.
The module concludes with consideration of how plate tectonics and earth surface processes operating over millions of years shape landscape evolution.
This module develops an appreciation of the historical context which underpins theory concerning environmental history, present-day environmental problems, and the prediction of future environmental changes.
Practical training in laboratory methods relevant to testing such theories is involved, and you will train for readiness to undertake fieldwork and third-year independent studies (dissertations) in a range of topical research themes in Quaternary environmental change.
Laboratory practicals are designed to give experience in using a number of fundamental methods used in the analysis of stratigraphical records, which underpin the reconstruction of former environmental conditions.
The accent is on the careful observation and logging of data, and on precision and accuracy in description and analysis of the processes leading to rapid environmental change.
Training is provided in data presentation and in the construction of scientific reports, as well as other key skills in the field of quaternary Science, such as the use of electronic resources and bespoke software packages for bibliographic searching, inspection of large databases of relevant palaeoenvironmental information and practical approaches such as radiocarbon calibration.
This module will provide a sound theoretical and historical background to biogeographical research and the basis of biodiversity.
The main themes to be explored are: dispersal strategies of organisms; the principal factors limiting species distribution at the present day (climate drivers, vegetation, physical barriers, competition and niche-specialisation, predation and parasitism); geographical centres for origination and dispersal, including coverage of plate tectonics and land bridges; natural selection and evolution; the role of past and present ecosystems; island biogeography; the Quaternary histories of different groups of flora and vertebrate and invertebrate fauna; natural and anthropogenic threats to ecosystems; extinction and the effects of disease.
This module introduces key concepts and ideas in political geography and geopolitics promoting an appreciation of the relationship between politics and geography through a range of different theoretical lenses, a series of diverse contexts, and at a variety of scales.
Each term, the lectures will be broken down into several key components beginning with an introductory lecture, tracing the emergence of political geography.
Both terms 1 and 2 will then proceed with a series of ‘lens’ lectures, introducing students to a range of theoretical lenses and analytical frameworks through which to engage and analyse contemporary and historic geopolitical issues.
These lenses include: objects, feminist geopolitics, popular geopolitics (taking place through an interactive workshop), infrastructures, mobilities, and technologies.
The course then moves on to a series of ‘context and theme’ lectures, which will provide students with an opportunity to apply the lenses to key thematic areas and contexts within contemporary political geography.
This module introduces the concepts and theories used to interpret and explain urbanisation and urban processes, providing critical knowledge of urban political economy, urban political ecology and urban social movements.
It refuses a neat division of the social and the natural by equipping students with critical tools to analyse the ecological transformations implied by political economic shifts and contested by urban social movements.
This module emphasises the importance of spatial variations in a globalising world; how spatial relations are an inherent and important feature of economic, social, and political activity; how particular places and environments are constituted, contested and remade; the significance of spatial and temporal scale on urban processes; and the development of an appreciation of change in urban systems, providing insights into the nature and philosophies of the discipline of geography.
This module is concerned with the character of place and culture in the modern world.
It explores both the material cultural transformations wrought by processes of modernisation and how people understand and imagine the places, spaces, times and environments they inhabit.
More specifically, the module addresses issues of global geographies of cultural change, especially the relationship between the local and the global; questions of place, identity and landscape, especially at the local scale; the significance of place and space in the invention of modern traditions, including places of memory (memorials, museums), symbolic national landscapes, and post-modern urban design; and nature-society relations.
The module addresses ways of representing and interpreting the world; spatial relations and systems linking spaces at a variety of scales; patterns of change in the development of the modern world; the production of differences in society and place; the changing place of cultural geography within the discipline as a whole.
This module develops within students concern, critical awareness and informed concern for ‘distant strangers’ and other cultures, linked to the notion of responsibility in an unequal and interconnected world.
The course addresses theories, paradigms and critiques of development; the environment-development interface and sustainability, the changing international economic and political order; the roles of state and non-state actors such as NGOs and; trade and aid policies.
Processes, causes and consequences are explored with reference to spatial variations, differences and inequalities, and their implications for different places and at different geographical scales, highlighting the complex nature of interdependences.
Explicit attention is devoted to the historicity and contextuality of changing perspectives on development as process and problematique.
This in turn provides insights into the nature and philosophies of the disciplines of geography and development studies.
This module reflects the changing face of coastal and shoreline management, linking coastal functioning with the impacts of human activity on the coast.
It is suitable for both physical geographers, and human geographers with an interest in the interface between human activity and the physical environment.
This module aims to provide a detailed discussion of the science behind global warming.
In particular, we will focus on three main themes.
Firstly, how do we know that global warming is really occurring and how do we know that it is down to us?
The first part is, therefore, a series of debates that address the main issues that are proposed by climate sceptics and present the scientific arguments that may refute them.
These lectures cover issues such as; 1) how do we distinguish between “natural” and “human” climate changes, 2) when did humans start to influence the climate system and how do we know, and 3) how are key global warming datasets, such as the “Hockey Stick curve” generated and what are the assumptions that it is based upon.
The second part will look at the prediction of climate change.
What are the current predictions for future warming?
What are they based upon and how robust are they?
Finally, we will deal with the impacts of this global warming on different components of the Earth system, namely the cryosphere (ice sheet collapse and sea level change), extreme weather events (such as hurricanes), ecosystems (desertification etc) and the response of different parts of Europe to changing temperature and rainfall regimes.
In this module, we use peatlands to explore how scientific knowledge of an environmental system can contribute to policy, management and conservation decisions.
Peatlands are globally important ecosystems because of their environmental and social value.
Because they are large carbon reservoirs (storing twice as much carbon as all the world’s forests) there is growing interest in how peatlands function, so that their behaviour and carbon-sink strength under a changing climate and different land uses can be understood.
Peatlands also support biodiversity; supply water, food and fuel; and provide valuable environmental and archaeological archives.
However, peatlands are vulnerable to over-exploitation and many peatlands have been degraded due to human use, poor management and impacts of climate change.
This module takes a holistic view of peatlands and explores the scientific basis of the human and environmental impacts on an ecosystem and how conflicts between different ecosystem users can be managed.
This module covers the range of human impacts on the river environment and the range of strategies which have been developed to manage contemporary river channel change.
Principles of flood hazard evaluation, flood forecasting and flood defence are also a major theme.
The evolution of river channel management in recent years has been radical.
The ‘techno-fix’ hard engineering approach has been seen to involve unforeseen channel changes involving progressive impacts upstream and downstream.
Such changes have then required unsustainable further management interventions.
The problem has been that engineering interventions have often not been in sympathy with the natural balance of river processes.
Recently therefore, geomorphologists and river managers have explored strategies of ‘working with the river’.
This has led to the increasing importance of ‘river restoration’.
The module will cover this debate and the principles of river restoration using seminars and case studies.
This module provides a detailed critical assessment of modern and Quaternary glacial environments, processes and products, including glacial erosion, transport, deposition and tectonism, and glaciofluvial and glaciolacustrine systems.
The module is delivered by lectures and practical work.
The emphasis is on understanding the links between the cryosphere and environmental change, past, present and future.
There is considerable spatial variation in the nature of the cryosphere, giving rise to wide-ranging climate responses, and these are considered in detail; the conceptualisation of patterns, processes, interactions and change in the Earth system at a range of spatial scales is a key aspect to the course.
The spatial and temporal scales of physical processes are considered in detail, contrasting alpine glaciation, polar ice sheets, and low latitude glaciation on annual and millennial timescales.
Students will examine how remote sensing has led to paradigm shifts in our knowledge of global environmental change through improvements in spatial resolution (e.g.
LiDARs) and global (synoptic) observations of the earth’s surface afforded by land observation satellites (e.g.
Landsat).
The module is divided into four themes – Geosphere (examining how high-resolution LiDAR data has contributed to improved understanding of earth surface processes), Biosphere (examining how satellite data has contributed to quantifying land use and forest change at the global scale), Cryosphere (examining how satellite data has enabled the monitoring of changes to ice sheets, sea ice, glaciers and snow in response to global warming) and Hydrosphere (examining how satellite data has enabled quantification of physical properties, such as temperature, of oceans and large lakes).
This module links the long-term environmental and geomorphic development of arid regions with present day human resource use and examines the future challenges posed by the environment to human populations.
While many of the processes and issues discussed are common to all drylands, the course concentrates on African arid zones to provide geographical focus.
Three broad subject areas are covered.
Geomorphology: Firstly, the location and geomorphic character of Africa’s drylands will be discussed.
Thereafter, a process based geomorphological approach will be used to explain the formation and distribution of landforms in Africa’s arid zones.
This section of the course will focus on the role of time, wind and water in producing the distinctive geomorphology of drylands.
Climate change and Archaeology: This section of the course investigates the late Quaternary climatic history of Northern and Southern Africa, emphasising the evidence used to infer past climate changes in arid zones and the changing consensus on Africa as an active or passive driver of climate.
The archaeology of the Sahara is discussed, highlighting the role of climate change in the formation of ancient civilizations in Egypt and Libya.
Contemporary issues: Dust, water and global warming.
This section of the course focuses on human exploitation of African drylands.
The main issues covered are dust, water provision and use and the prediction and potential impacts of global warming.
This module encompasses a range of topics relating to Pleistocene and modern mammals, their adaptations to changing environmental conditions, and their interactions with humans on a range of spatial and temporal scales.
The module is suitable for both physical and human geographers who have an interest in the interplay between biogeography, (palaeo) ecology, Quaternary environmental change and archaeology.
This module aims to provide an overview of the geography of volcanoes and allow students to develop their research interests in either the physical geography of volcanoes or the influences of volcanoes on aspects of human society.
Students will first need a good basic grasp of the underlying tectonic and volcanological influences on different volcanic provinces, volcanos, and an overview of major volcanic centres and eruptions as context for the remainder of the course: (1) Volcanos and climate change including abrupt and long term trends and also Super-volcanoes and significant Quaternary climate change; (2) Volcanic products as tie markers of the correlation of climatic records and the testing of climate models; (3) Volcanic impacts on past societies including genetic bottlenecks, species extinctions, societal collapse, major loss of life and economic stress; (4) recent volcanic impacts on societies and management and mitigation strategies; (5) human compounding of volcanic risk; and (6) volcanoes as drivers of economic development including geo-tourism.
A key aim is to show that the geography of volcanoes requires a sound ability to build and analyse data and information to test ideas.
The key aims of this module are: (i) to provide a critical background in theories and concepts relating to urban and regional development; (ii) to provide knowledge of the changing role of urban and regional policies in the UK; (iii) to develop an understanding of the role of the state in addressing problems of geographical variations in standards of living; (iv) to provide practical examples of urban and regional policies and programmes; (v) to provide the critical and intellectual skills to appraise such policies.
The first half of the course will explore the roots and development of urban regeneration policies from the ‘Choketown’ conditions of the nineteenth century through to inner city problems of the twentieth century.
The second half of the module will look at contemporary themes in regeneration and urban policy such as the role of community and the pursuit of ‘sustainable’ forms of regeneration.
This module looks at four geographical questions.
By way of introduction, we will start by mapping out how commodities have geographical lives, such that their movements can be followed through places of production, ‘exhibition’ and consumption.
We then consider each of these types of place in more depth.
In thinking about commodity exhibition, we will analyse the interrelations between geography and practices of marketing, branding and advertising.
The coursework project asks you to apply these insights in an analysis of a specific, self-selected advertising campaign or genre, exploring how adverts associate products and often mythical geographies.
In terms of the geographies of commodity production, the focus is on experiences of work.
We will examine how work and workplaces are shaped both by practices of surveillance (the monitoring and control of workers) and forms of display (where workers ‘perform’ for customers).
Turning to consumption, the module argues that the ‘lives’ of commodities don’t end at the moment of purchase but carry on in how we use them.
Foci here will include shopping, media consumption, the material geographies of home, fashion, dress and embodiment and the so-called ‘experience economy’ (where we don’t consume things so much as experiences).
As more of the planet’s population becomes urban, so too does the focus of global capital.
Cities of the twenty-first century therefore are increasingly characterised by neoliberal strategies that creates as many problems as it does advantages.
Increased security, the reduction of public spaces, increased privatisation, homogenous urban policies and a push toward hyper-mobility are some of the processes which characterise the contemporary Global City.
But many of these processes which represent the logic of capitalism are being resisted by a variety of urban people, communities, institutions and even government procedures; creating a tension that is rife throughout cities all over the world.
Are these practices of resistance, subversion and protest forging a post-capitalist urban landscape, or are they pockets of anti-capitalism that are destined to fail?
Do they empower ordinary citizens to affect urban change or are they problems for urban governments to rectify?
This module will outline how these activities are creating post-capitalist cities, and explore what these cities look like.
This module examines the relationship and interaction between geopolitics (and geopolitical knowledge), the media and communications technologies.
In particular, this module combines an interest in both (i) the role of ‘the media’ (film, radio, television and journalistic output) in communicating real-life events and ‘geopolitical imaginaries’ to audiences, and (ii) the emergence of the media and communications technologies as official devices of geopolitics and ‘statecraft’.
This is an advanced level module which examines the connections between exploration, "discovery", and science in the making of geography.
It considers how we came to know the world as a question of geography, and how the geographical knowledge which emerged from voyages of "discovery" in the fifteenth century (and later) was central to the development of the Western scientific tradition.
Through an examination of the practices of science and geography—observing, mapping, collecting, measuring—the module considers how knowledge about the world was put to order and how, in turn, it facilitated Europe's various imperial projects.
In tracing the production, circulation, and reception of geographical knowledge, the module addresses certain important epistemic questions, including what we take reliable knowledge to be, whom we consider to be credible producers of it, and how its reception is influenced by social, political, and religious circumstances.
The module offers a history of geography and science as a series of related practices.
It explores the making of geographical knowledge in the "field", its circulation in text, talk, specimen, and image, and it role in defining scientific understandings of the world.
This module is about the geography of collecting and collections.
The gathering up of objects from places near and far, their arrangement according to some principle or system, and their display in a variety of forms are all inherently spatial processes.
The history of collecting raises questions about the geography of acquisition, especially the networks through which artefacts and specimens are obtained whether for learning, for profit or for pleasure.
Similarly, the evolution and exhibition of collections – whether in the home, the museum or the gallery - depends on particular kinds of spatial arrangements through which objects take on their meaning.
While these subjects are not new to geography as a discipline – there is a long history of object and image collections being used as resources for teaching and research in our discipline – they have recently taken on new significance.
Geographers have re-discovered the significance of material culture and object-based research methodologies; new possibilities for collections research have been developed in the digital era; and there are new imperatives for public engagement beyond the academy.
All these developments are reflected in the growing significance of collaboration between geographers and museums.
This module considers ‘home’ as a key site in the contemporary world.
Conceptually the module considers the long-established suppression of home and its more recent revival in research across the humanities and social sciences.
The focus is on both the global North and global South providing an understanding of the complexity of meanings and experiences of home in different communities and countries across the world.
The module is structured to encourage students to explore both the making of home, but also challenges and disruptions to home through engagement with vibrant inter-disciplinary literature on this topic.
Ultimately the module encourages students to consider the theoretical, empirical and policy importance of geographies of home.
What is an atmosphere?
How can we feel, sense, and know atmospheres?
Why do atmospheres matter for geography?
These questions are increasingly important in the context of rapid climatic change, global aerial mobility, the rise of cloud computing and shifts in atmospheric law and politics.
Starting from the assumption that the atmosphere is an increasingly important (indeed an urgent) realm of thinking, working and acting for geographers, this module explores several currents of research and practice engaged with the atmosphere.
In this way, the module traces an alter-geography of air and atmosphere as they fold and shape Earthly geographies.
Given the liminality, ephemerality and invisibility of atmospheric matters, concepts and imaginaries are important points of reference.
The module therefore enrols both humanistic and physical geographical themes in identifying how artists, scientists and geographers have tapped into concerns with the atmosphere, with wide-ranging implications for changing geographical relationships to our planet and its gaseous shell.
The course has a modular structure, whereby students take four course units per year.
Some course units are compulsory while others are options, thereby offering flexibility and choice.
Assessment is by a mixture of coursework and end-of-year examination in varying proportions, depending on the course units you choose to take.
In the final year you will complete a 10,000 word dissertation on a topic of your choice, which you will research and write with individual guidance from your tutor.
The first year is foundational and marks do not count towards your final degree.
The second year and final year marks do count, with more importance being given to the final year marks in order to reward progress and achievement.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures and small seminar groups, tutorials and practical workshops.
The department has a substantial and varied programme of field training and laboratory work, giving you the opportunity to apply your skills and knowledge in a practical setting.
Private study and preparation are essential parts of every course, and you will have access to many online resources including the University’s comprehensive e-learning facility, Moodle – which provides a wide range of supporting materials.
We use a range of assessment models to suit different learning styles, from fieldwork exercises and reports, individual and group presentations to coursework essays and examinations.
In your final year you will have the opportunity to write a research-led dissertation.
The Department of Geography at Royal Holloway, University of London is ranked among the top UK Geography departments for employability.
Our graduates are in demand in a range of sectors, from environmental conservation to NGOs, media relations and the Civil Service.
Our dynamic research culture also means you'll be in a great position to progress to further postgraduate study.
Excellent industry links provide students with opportunities for graduate placements and work experience, helping you take the first steps in your future career.
Recent alumni have progressed to careers in wildlife conservation, coastal management and the media, among other fields.
Other essential costs***: You will have the opportunity in your first year to go abroad and carry out fieldwork for no additional cost.
In your second and third years you may choose to participate in fieldwork abroad that will incur additional costs of between £750 and £2000.
However it is possible to complete the degree course with no additional fieldwork costs.
On successful completion of this programme you will receive a degree accredited by the Royal
Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers).
Admissions office: +44 (0)1784 276884
Source: The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025
Source: The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/health-studies/health-studies:
UCAS code: B900
Health Studies with Integrated Foundation Year
UCAS code: B90F
BSc Health Studies at Royal Holloway, University of London is a new degree with a focus on promoting healthier populations and environments, an exciting area leading to a huge variety of career pathways for graduates who are prepared to make a difference in the world.
Delivered by our new Department of Health Studies, this course is designed to equip a new generation of health practitioners with the skills to address health protection, health promotion and sustainable living frameworks to address 21 st -century issues that impact human and environmental health.
Study BSc Health Studies and you will benefit from stimulating, interdisciplinary teaching to inspire and challenge you, and the flexibility to explore your own interests.
You’ll be part of a supportive learning environment with small group seminars and tutorials encouraging development, cooperation and effective team-working.
Your course will include challenge led placements across all three years with community, national and international partners, plus frequent opportunities to network and collaborate with local and national partners in the sector.
The Health Studies department builds on world-class research and interdisciplinary collaborations at Royal Holloway and is developing new areas of growth with leading experts in health and environmental sectors, including the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the Harvard-led Planetary Health Alliance.
We are partners with the Royal Society for Public Health and our BSc Health Studies students get free membership in their first year.
Through a collaborative approach to learning and practical experience, you will learn how to evaluate, discuss and practice solution-focused approaches to various challenges that affect health and wellbeing in society.
You’ll develop your understanding of the relationship between health frameworks and the environment through a global health focus and systems approach thinking.
From navigating and influencing systems, writing policy, managing data and developing research skills, to having the confidence to build partnerships and drive essential projects, you will graduate with the knowledge and exposure to go on to a rewarding career promoting the value of health for our communities and environment, and to bring about lasting changes that save lives.
We offer
The aim of this module is to provide an understanding of the different health professional roles and how they play a vital role in treatment, rehabilitation and improving health and wellbeing in health and social care.
You will explore codes of conduct, collaborate working, communication theories, team roles, conflict resolution, contemporary issues in health and social care, serious case reviews and inquiry reports, amongst others.
This module will provide students with an understanding of the wider social and environmental determinants of health and how the determinants impact health attitudes, behaviours, and health outcomes.
This will also address strategies and interventions at the individual, community, national and global levels.
This module aims to provide an overview of health systems from a multi-disciplinary perspective.
Students will gain understanding of the role of public and environmental health policy, organisational structures, technology and management on the health and wellbeing outcomes.
It will equip students to be effective health leaders.
This module will have some structured lectures and seminars to prepare, guide and supervise students before, during and after the four weeks of professional placement attendance.
This module enables students to synthesize the knowledge and understanding gained from theory into practical application to gain and enhance skills required of a competent and reflective practitioner.
The focus will be on experiential learning supported by reflection and critical analysis.
The Professional Placement1 will focus on equipping students with communication, influencing, health practice competencies and team working skills for career development.
Evidence of skills gained, a SWOT analysis and Personal Development Plan (PDP) will be collated into an E- Portfolio.
This module aims to provide students with an understanding of physical and mental health conditions.
It explores the relationships between physiology, physical health, lifestyle factors and mental health and wellbeing.
The aim of the module is to provide students with concepts and theories of health promotion and health protection frameworks.
This will give students an understanding of the determinants of health, strategies and interventions that can be undertaken at the global, community, or individual levels to improve health.
This module aims to provide an interdisciplinary understanding of sustainability and the way organisations and individuals can impact the environment and the population health outcomes.
This will equip students to adopt a critical approach to solutions and strategies for sustainable living.
The module aims to develop knowledge and an understanding of the purpose and process of research and enable students to demonstrate research awareness and evidence-based practice to support services and the wider healthcare outcomes.
The module aims to explore the policy priorities in the health and social care sector and the impact policy has in key areas of local, national and global health and social care settings.
The module aims to provide students with knowledge, understanding and skills essential for partnership working and ethical practice at organisational and individual practitioner levels.
It addresses the theoretical, policy and practice challenges and provides students the opportunity to analyse and develop more effective inter-professional working.
This module will have some structured lectures and seminars to prepare, guide and supervise students before, during and after the mandatory four weeks of professional placement attendance.
The Professional Placement2 will be building up on the previous year and focus on the student’s preparedness to navigate health systems, apply health policy, evaluating evidence and set targets for own development towards professional career.
Evidence of skills gained (certificates of completion, induction records), an updated SWOT analysis and Personal Development Plan (PDP) will be collated into an E- Portfolio.
This module aims to provide knowledge and understanding of the issues and concepts relating to population health wellbeing and risk by investigating determinants of health and assessing causality.
This will give students evidence-based understanding of the complexities and risk to human and population health from social, economic and environmental factors.
The aim of the module is to provide students with an understanding of the influence of the determinants of health, power and discrimination, and the impact on social inclusion and exclusion.
The students will use social theory and lived narratives to understand social issues and learn ways to challenge inequality in health across the population.
The aim of this module is to enable a student to carry out their research plan drafted from the previous research methods module.
This allows the student to plan, manage and carry out the research process using the methodology selected for investigation.
Students will immerse themselves in the current literature to develop their research and navigate systems like ethics applications or access to resources for implementation as appropriate.
They will manage their timeline and resources to be able to complete their project.
Students will be able to choose their area of interest and will be provided with a supervisor for the duration of their project.
The Professional Placement3 will focus on equipping the students to lead, manage and facilitate change in health settings and set targets for own development towards professional career.
Evidence of skills gained (certificates of completion, induction records, project plans), an updated SWOT analysis and Personal Development Plan (PDP) will be collated into an E- Portfolio.
All modules are core
The course has a modular structure, with a mix of teaching modules each year.
Some larger modules will address holistic areas in more depth or allow for extra time for project development and management, including a dissertation module.
You will be taught by staff from multidisciplinary backgrounds to allow exposure to diverse and global perspectives of health as well as innovative and creative application of theory.
A programme of lectures, seminars, tutorials and independent learning, both online and in-person will include a large emphasis on experiential and case based learning with peer support and group discussions.
This ensures that all students are exposed to a professional environment in a safe space where you can develop your communication and networking skills in preparation for placements.
Placements will be organised by the course team for all students and can be hybrid in nature depending on the placement provider and the demand for the project.
You will undergo placements in small groups and therefore will also have peer support during this period as well as placement mentor and an academic supervisor.
Designed to equip a new generation of health practitioners with the skills to address health protection, health promotion and sustainable living frameworks, this degree will lead to rewarding career paths promoting the value of health for our communities and environment.
Our commitment to your future career is reflected in the diverse topics you will study on your degree course and through other initiatives.
You will graduate with the knowledge, transferable research and employability skills that will make you a highly desirable candidate for employers in a variety of sectors.
From roles in public health advice, voluntary services, wellbeing counselling, and community development projects to planetary health organisations and ecology, NGOs, private sector or higher education, your degree can lead you to a rewarding career in a diverse world.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £22,100

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/law-and-criminology/law:
Law
LLB
UCAS code: M100
Law with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: MM10
LLB Law with Integrated Foundation Year
UCAS code: M10F
Our Department of Law and Criminology has a reputation for high quality research and teaching.
Whilst studying Law at Royal Holloway you will explore the fundamental principles of justice, equity and equality within the framework of English and European law.
This degree is for anyone looking to start a career in law, whether as a barrister or a solicitor, it is also for those who are interested in the legal system and the ways in which laws are made and upheld.
You will be equipped with a wide range of transferable skills which are highly sought after by employers in a wide variety of fields.
You will consider the different laws which apply to different legal problems within the legal system.
This will enable to understand how the law regulates agreements between individuals and the relationship between the individual and the state.
In addition to acquiring invaluable legal skills in research and oral presentation, you will have the opportunity to choose from a range of subjects in fields such as family law, medical law, company law and international law along with criminology options in terrorism, sentencing and penal policy and gender and crime.
Our balanced approach to research and teaching guarantees high quality teaching from subject leaders, cutting edge materials and intellectually challenging debates.
You will receive individual attention and flexibility to acquire expertise within a specialist field.
For students starting their LLB degree after 21 September 2021, the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE) is the new way to qualify as a solicitor in England and Wales.
Doing the SQE provides more flexibility in how you train to become a solicitor and we have secured an agreement for our students with a provider of the training needed after your degree, subject to terms and conditions.
For students wishing to qualify as a barrister, the Common Protocol on legal education agreed between the Solicitors Regulatory Authority and the Bar Standards Board recognises Royal Holloway as a qualifying law degree provider , which means that on successful completion of this course you will have fulfilled the academic stage of training to become a barrister.
Constitutions establish and control the powers of the state and regulate the relationship between the state and its citizens.
This module examines the UK’s uncodified constitution, primarily considering the main characteristics of the British system of government, including the division of powers between the legislature, executive, and judiciary and between Westminster and the devolved regions; key constitutional concepts and their associated challenges, including Parliamentary sovereignty, conventions, the rule of law, and human rights protection before and after the Human Rights Act 1998; and how administrative law, particularly judicial review, controls the actions of the government and public authorities.
Contracts form the legal basis of commercial transactions.
This module examines the legalities regarding the formation of contracts, the capacity to contract and the performance of legal obligations as well as remedies for breach of contract.
In particular, you will examine the following areas: introduction to contract; invitation to treat; offer and acceptance; consideration; Promissory Estoppel; intentions to create legal relations; implied terms; express terms; exemption clauses; unfair contract terms; mistakes; types of misrepresentation; misrepresentation and remedies; duress; undue influence; frustration and force majeure; breach of contract and remedies; and third-party rights.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the general nature of criminal law and learn how to apply the general principles of criminal liability, including the liability of accomplices.
You will look at the elements of an offence and the various requirements for actus reus and mens rea, considering how they apply to various offences against the person or property.
You will examine selected principal offences against the person, including fatal and non-fatal offences involving physical violence such as assaults and those involving sexual violence.
You will also asses selected principal property offences, including theft, burglary, robbery and deception, and the inchoate offences and the liability of accomplices.
This module serves as an intensive introduction to the fundamentals of the legal system and legal study.
It explores elements of the historical, philosophical and social context of the English Legal Systems, including issues of law, morality and justice.
Additionally, various sources of law, including at national and international level, and through treaties, statute and case law will also be studied.
This module focuses on employability by involving students in practical skills sessions such as mooting, client interviewing, and negotiation.
It is designed to develop core professional competencies that are required by the legal and non-legal professions.
This module examines the various types of interests which can exist in land, including the rights and duties under these interests, how they can be protected against third parties acquiring other interests in the land, and how they can be transferred.
In particular, you will examine fundamental concepts; contracts relating to land; adverse possession; leases and licences; mortgages; co-ownership and the family home; freehold covenants; easements; and protection of interests in land (both registered and unregistered).
This module provides you with an introduction to the law of tort, focusing on general principles of tort liability in the law governing reputation and misuse of private information, negligence, intentional interference with the person and the law of nuisance.
Specifically, you will develop an understanding in the following areas: the function and purpose of the law of tort; an introduction to the law of negligence and its importance in the law of tort; an examination of the duty of care and its breach including how is it manifests in specific torts such as employers liability, vicarious liability, occupiers liability, economic loss and psychiatric injury; an examination of the remaining aspects of negligence such as causation and remoteness; general defences; defamation and misuse of private information; trespass to the person including harassment; and finally, interference with property rights and enjoyment in the form of nuisance and the rule in Rylands v Fletcher.
This module examines the role of the European Union (EU) in the free movement of peoples, goods, services and capital.
You will explore the legal enforcement of treaties on which the Union is based, with a consideration of both national and international systems.
You will examine these treaties and the various EU institutions created under them (and incorporated into domestic law), examining their legal and policy-making powers.
In particular, you will look at the laws and functions of the EU Institutions including the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Council and the Court of Justice of the EU, and explore how free movement works across national borders and how the law of the EU is enforced.
In this module you will examine equity and its relationship with the common law.
You will explore the concept of a trust and the laws associated with governing the creation and administration of trusts.
You will explore the development of equity historically and explain how purpose trusts operate.
You will look at how charitable trusts are created and consider the duties of trustees.
You will consider the nature and scope of fiduciary obligations and consider when those obligations might be breached and the consequences of such.
You will also consider particular types of trusts, including secret trusts, resulting and constructive trusts.
We use a variety of different methods of assessment.
These might include an essay about a controversial issue or an established case, an analysis of a video, a report of an experiment or a critical analysis of a recently published research.
Some course units involve oral presentations.
Assessment is both summative and formative, and you will be provided with detailed comments on essays and other coursework.
Many course units also have a written examination in May or June.
Progression to the next year is dependent on passing the compulsory course units.
The combination of quality and range of assessments helps our students to develop a wide portfolio of skills and learning.
A Law degree at Royal Holloway makes you highly employable in the UK and internationally.
As well as a career in law, the transferable skills gained will form the basis of a career in the criminal justice agencies.
You will be equipped with the knowledge, skills and experiences essential to advance your future career or move onto further study and pursue a career in research and evaluation in academic and policy contexts.
Our graduates have gone on to careers with employers including law firms, the Crown Prosecution Service, the police, the probation service, the prison service and the National Crime Agency.
Source: The Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/liberal-arts/liberal-arts:
UCAS code: Y000
Liberal Arts with an International Year
UCAS code: Y001
Liberal Arts with a Language Year Abroad
UCAS code: Y002
Liberal Arts with Integrated Foundation Year
UCAS code: Y00F
The 2025 National Students Survey positions Royal Holloway as second overall in the UK for Liberal Arts, a degree which is ideal for creative and inquisitive individuals who have a wide range of interests.
Choosing to take this highly-prized degree at Royal Holloway will provide you with the opportunity to create a bespoke course that is perfectly aligned to your individual interests and passions.
Liberal Arts involves an internationally-recognised approach to study that will prepare you for life in our rapidly changing world.
Multifaceted, diverse and adaptable graduates are increasingly sought by employers looking for people able to respond quickly and effectively to shifting needs and opportunities.
This degree is truly interdisciplinary and will allow you either to retain a broad focus across various disciplines or to specialise in one or two areas of interest, as you choose from a vast range of subjects available across the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
Core modules in years 1 and 2 will enable you to connect with your fellow Liberal Arts students and provide you with a strong foundation upon which to base your chosen studies, and you will be prompted to think about how to bring different disciplines into conversation with each other.
In first year, you will also developing valuable cross-cultural skills by choosing a Cultural Fluency Option: French, German, Italian or Spanish language and culture, either as a beginner or at an advanced level.
You will be taught by internationally renowned experts in their fields and be fully supported by a Personal Tutor.
This course has a strong emphasis on teamwork alongside individual development and will equip you with skills of critical thinking, creativity and adaptability.
•    Ideal for creative and inquisitive students who have a wide range of interests.
•    Study a language – beginners’ or advanced – for one, two or three years.
•    An internationally prestigious degree.
•    Choose a broad or concentrated focus for your studies.
•    Develop your curriculum with your Personal Tutor.
This module is the core introduction to the Liberal Arts degree.
You will focus on the unifying theme of 'encounters', and engage with some of the distinctive qualities of the course.
It will introduce them to some of the ways in which cultures have developed through historical, philosophical and creative 'encounters', dialogue, tension and movement.
Core teaching will be delivered collaboratively by tutors from a number of different departments.
Through the in-depth study of selected case studies you will begin to appreciate the value in the comparative and interdisciplinary approach allowed by the Liberal Arts programme, and develop some of the key skills in analytical and critical thinking that will be essential to your studies.
This module takes the theme, 'Power, Society and Cultural Practice'', and examines it from a number of multidisciplinary and multimedia perspectives.
It is designed to build on the first year module for Liberal Arts ('Cultural Encounters').
It encourages students to refine the approaches developed in that module, and to develop further their critical and creative approaches and practices in a comparative manner.
The module places a particular emphasis on cultural practices across a range of media and will enable students to perceive the connections between ostensibly disparate forms of communication and discourses.
Optional modules in Liberal Arts may include:
In this module you will develop an understanding of the key concepts of ecology and conservation, working up from organisms to populations and their interactions, through to communities and ecosystems.
You will look at ecological patterns and processes and consider the fundamental interactions between species and their abiotic environment.
You will also gain practical experience in using ecological sampling techniques, carrying out biostatistical analyses and experimental design.
This module provides you with a general introduction to criminology and forensic psychology.
You will explore official, populist, sociological and psychological meanings of crime through study of the development of criminology as a distinctive field of research and scholarship.
You will develop sociological understandings of crime and the history of punishment, before turning to forensic psychology and its contribution to understanding offending behaviours, punishment and rehabilitation.
In this module you will develop an understanding of a range of Old and Middle English texts.
You will look at a range of Old and Middle English poetry and prose in their original language.
You will learn to translate passages of Old and Middle English texts and consider the forms, styles and themes.
You will examine works such as 'Beowulf', Chaucer’s 'Canterbury Tales' and the works of the Gawain-poet.
You will also analyse the formal structures underlying Medieval Literature and the history and culture of the time.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to think, read and write as a critic.
You will look at the concepts, ideas and histories that are central to the ‘disciplinary consciousness’ of English Literature, considering periodisation, form, genre, canon, intention, narrative, framing and identity.
In this module you will develop an understanding of Shakespeare’s dramatic and literary craft.
You will look at the historical context of the plays and the relevance of the plays today.
You will examine a range of Shakespeare’s work from the Elizabethan Comedies and Histories, including 'Twelfth Night', 'Henry V', 'Hamlet'.
'King Lear' and 'The Tempest'.
You will analyse key critical approaches to Shakespeare and consider the performance history of the plays.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the origins, developments and innovations of the novel form.
You will look at a range of contemporary, eighteenth and nineteenth-century novels and learn to use concepts in narrative theory and criticism.
You will consider literary history and make formal and thematic connections between texts and their varying socio-cultural contexts.
You will examine novels such as 'The Accidental' by Ali Smith, 'Things Fall Apart' by Chinua Achebe and 'North and South' by Elizabeth Gaskell, analysing their cultural and intellectual contexts.
In this module you will develop an understanding of a variety of major poems in English.
You will look at key poems from the Renaissance to the present day.
You will engage with historical issues surrounding the poems and make critical judgements, considering stylistic elements such as rhyme, rhythm, metre, diction and imagery.
You will examine poems from Shakespeare to Sylvia Plath and analyse topics such as sound, the stanza and the use of poetic language.
This module investigates the origins of our ideas about human rights and duties, revolution and democracy, consent and liberty.
Key original texts are studied, ranging from Plato and Aristotle in the ancient world to Machiavelli, More, Hobbes, Locke and the Enlightenment in the transition from the early modern to the modern world.
The module takes a wide view of the boundaries of ‘European Political Thought’, also introducing several political thinkers from the Islamic world like al-Mawardi, Ibn Khaldun and Ibn Taymiyya.
Like their Christian counterparts elsewhere, their work marked a close engagement with Greek philosophy, and explored the question of what the presence of an almighty creator God meant for the conduct of human politics.
This module always keeps an eye on what the close and careful reading of classical texts has to offer for our understanding of politics in the present.
Working with primary sources, rather than the learning of factual details, stands at the centre of both how the module is taught and how it is assessed.
The early modern period was an age of change.
It has been seen by many as the beginning of modernity, for it witnessed the consolidation of both national monarchies and the central state, the split of Christianity with the emergence of the Reformation, the spread of Islam to the Balkans, European expansion into the ‘new world’, the introduction of print, and significant changes in patterns of consumption.
This module assesses the impact that these processes had on the lives of ordinary early modern Europeans and on their ways of making sense of the changes in the world around them.
For example, we examine how the process of state-building brought about a new culture of discipline and self-restraint in everyday life; how people’s attitudes to the sacred and standards of morality changed with the spread of the Reformation and Counter-Reformation.
We ask whether the introduction of print revolutionised ordinary people’s access to information and knowledge, and whether the encounter with Native Americans stimulated the development of a separate European identity, perceived as superior.
This module also addresses continuities and changes in the domestic and private spheres of individuals’ lives -- gender relations, patterns of family life, ideas about childhood and intimacy, attitudes to health and hygiene, birth and death.
Throughout the emphasis is on the experience of ordinary people.
From the Enlightenment to the collapse of Communism, Europeans have struggled to make sense of and shape a continent in the grip of profound changes.
Revolution, industrialisation and urbanisation transformed the face of politics and societies and spawned a series of new ideologies that continue to shape our world today.
This module surveys a range of major events and dynamics from the late eighteenth to the early twenty-first centuries, including the French Revolution, the emergence of the nation state, the decline of monarchy, the rise of mass politics, the emergence of the working classes and the middle classes, the First World War, the Russian Revolution and the rise of fascism, the Second World War and the Cold War.
In studying specific events and developments students are also introduced to more general concepts like revolution, constitutionalism, liberalism, nationalism, industrialisation, urbanisation, socialism, communism, fascism, parliamentary democracy and the welfare state.
Exposure to different historical methods and conflicting interpretations helps students to hone their own analytical skills.
The emphasis throughout the module is on recovering the experiences of Europeans across more than two turbulent centuries when the very shape of the modern world was fiercely contested.
The module introduces students to the history of the non-Western world over the past one hundred years or so, a period that resulted in - as some historians have suggested - the decline of the West and the rise of the Rest in political terms.
In regions such as Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America, the twentieth century was hugely significant, witnessing the downfall of empires and long-held ideologies, on the one hand, and, on the other, the advent of revolutionary struggles and movements that created new nation-states.
Its legacies continue to affect and shape the world on a regional and global level.
The lens through which this exploration takes place is provided by the lives and careers of some of the most influential non-Western political leaders, including advocate of non-violent resistance MK Gandhi, architect of Communist China Mao Zedong, South African anti-apartheid politician Nelson Mandela, Cuban revolutionary Che Guevara, and Al-Qaeda’s Osama bin Laden.
Whether nationalists, monarchs, communists, dictators, or inspired by religious belief, their individual stories provide students with the starting point for exploring - both thematically and comparatively - key developments that have shaped their respective countries and the world in which we live today.
The terms ‘Middle Ages’ and ‘Medieval’ are often used to evoke a dark and bigoted world, wracked by war, pestilence and superstition and oppressed by tyrannical kings and scheming priests.
The image is not entirely false as all those things certainly did happen in the Middle Ages.
But then again, they also occurred in most other periods of human history, including the twentieth century.
Those aspects aside, the period from c.400 to c.1500 saw Western Europe transform itself from the poorer part of the retreating Roman empire to a wealthy, sophisticated and dynamic society that was starting to explore the world far beyond its borders.
This module explores some of the changes and developments that took place along the way and answers some of the questions that you may always have wanted to ask: What happened after the Roman empire fell?
What was ‘feudalism’?
How were castles and Gothic cathedrals built?
Why did the Pope become so powerful?
What were the Crusades?
Why did the Hundred Years’ War go on for so long?
How did Europe survive after losing as much as half its population in the Black Death?
And does this remote era have any relevance whatsoever to the modern world?
These companion modules (Introduction to Media Histories 1 and Introduction to Media Histories 2) introduce students to media histories encompassing complementary accounts of film, television, video games, computing, the internet, and social media.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the key debates in critical theory.
You will look at a range of different methods in studying film, television and digital media, including artistic achievement and critical interpretation, close textual analysis, ideological analysis, national cinema, and psychoanalysis.
You will examine the relationship between the intentions of individual film and programme-makers and wider processes.
You will consider films and television programmes in close detail, analysing the relationship between how something is achieved and what it means.
This module allows students to apply their critical understanding of screen narratives.
They will do this through original creative screenwriting, detailed analysis, and theory.
Students have to adapt a story into a 10m screenplay.
This could be a short story, an album, or a video game.
The visual image has always played an important role in society, as a source of enjoyment and pleasure, and also as a means of communicating values, celebrating beauty, shaping thought and challenging assumptions.
This module aims to develop understanding of the ways the visual image functions and the concepts and techniques needed to analyse it.
This module examines images of French society through a selection of key literary texts and concentrates on how questions of social change, social mobility, success and failure, ambition and honour, oppression and alienation have been portrayed.
Delivered by the appropriate specialist in the School of Modern Languages, the classes will offer a taste of the literature of the relevant periods, along with a discussion of its distinguishing stylistic features, and an overview of its intellectual, social, and historical background.
Terms that often confuse or put off students new to literature (such as Romanticism, Realism, or Existentialism) will be explained and briefly contextualised.
By the end of the module, students will have acquired an insight into a range of representative texts from a variety of periods and an understanding of the ideas and social structures they portray.
The module aims to develop reading and writing skills in French.
Classes use French as much as possible and the course is assessed in French.
The module uses a blended approach: it is based on a beginners' coursebook with additional material on Moodle and as weekly hand-outs based on authentic material.
Themes studied vary from year to year but are likely to include every-day life in France, an introduction to French-speaking society and culture, regions and traditions.
The module aims to develop speaking and listening skills in French.
Classes use French as much as possible and the module is assessed in French.
The module aims to expand students’ ability to express themselves in accurate written French.
Major grammatical issues will be taught and/or revised, and students will work on a wide range of authentic material in French to expand their vocabulary and range of expressions.
Key linguistic features of the texts will be identified and discussed to improve the student’s language acquisition and analysis skills.
The course will be taught and assessed in French.
The module aims to expand students’ ability to express themselves in accurate spoken French.
Students will work on a wide range of authentic material in French to expand their vocabulary and range of expressions and to introduce them to contemporary issues and culture.
This module will introduce students to key areas of interest in contemporary German Studies, including literature, film, and history.
The module presents key developments in German history through the lens of literature and the visual arts, in a lively and accessible way.
Students will gain an insight into German culture and history from the Middle Ages to the present, and acquire skills and knowledge that will serve them throughout their degree.
Works by numerous writers and artists will feature.
The module aims to develop reading and writing skills in German.
Classes use German as much as possible and the module is assessed in German.
Themes studied vary from year to year but are likely to include every-day life in France, an introduction to German-speaking society and culture, regions and traditions.
The module aims to develop speaking and listening skills in German.
Themes studied vary from year to year but are likely to include every-day life in German-speaking countries, an introduction to German-speaking society and culture, regions and traditions.
The module aims to expand students’ ability to express themselves in accurate written German.
Major grammatical issues will be taught and/or revised, and students will work on a wide range of authentic material in German to expand their vocabulary and range of expressions.
The module will be taught and assessed in German.
The module aims to expand students’ ability to express themselves in accurate spoken German.
Students will work on a wide range of authentic material in German to expand their vocabulary and range of expressions and to introduce them to contemporary issues and culture.
The first term begins with an introduction to themes and ideas in the literature of the Middle Ages – autobiography, love, writers and readers – to provide a firm basis for the study of the three great writers of the Italian Middle Ages.
The module then continues with a brief introduction to Dante’s writings, and a close, detailed reading of his earliest work, the Vita Nuova in which he tells the story of his love for Beatrice.
In the second term the module covers a selection of the stories from Boccaccio’s most famous work, the Decameron, and a selection of the poems Petrarch wrote for his lady, Laura, which later inspired lyric poetry all over Europe.
Visual and dramatic interpretations of the work of these three authors will also be included in the module.
The module aims to focus on some of the symbolic passages in the process of nation-building in Italy in the 19th and 20th centuries, as Italy reached its unity only in 1861.
Through the study of Foscolo’s Last Letters of Jacopo Ortis (1798), Collodi’s Pinocchio (1880), Calvino’s The Path to the Nest of Spiders (1947), and Tomasi di Lampedusa’s The Leopard (1958) the module aims to give students an understanding of how and why Italy was born so late as a political entity.
By focussing on the different stages of the process of Nation building in Italy, the module also aims to make students aware of how Italy’s national identity developed: two books (Foscolo’s and Collodi’s) were written in the 19th century, and will help students to understand the pre-Risorgimento (the making of Italy), and the post-Risorgimento (the making of the Italians); whereas the other two books (Calvino’s and Tomasi’s) come from the 20th century, and will help students to understand the Resistenza (the making of the Republic), and the post-war Italy (the crisis of nationhood).
Students will learn about the causes and consequence of the Fascist rule in Italy between 1922 and 1945, and study the political and cultural developments of the period.
Topics include: ideas of Fascism, Futurism and Fascism, the Cult of Mussolini, and popular culture.
The module aims to develop reading and writing skills in Italian.
Classes use Italian as much as possible and the module is assessed in Italian.
Themes studied vary from year to year but are likely to include every-day life in France, an introduction to Italian-speaking society and culture, regions and traditions.
The module aims to develop speaking and listening skills in Italian.
Themes studied vary from year to year but are likely to include every-day life in Italian-speaking countries, an introduction to Italian-speaking society and culture, regions and traditions.
The module aims to expand students’ ability to express themselves in accurate written Italian.
Major grammatical issues will be taught and/or revised, and students will work on a wide range of authentic material in Italian to expand their vocabulary and range of expressions.
The module will be taught and assessed in Italian.
The module aims to expand students’ ability to express themselves in accurate spoken Italian.
Students will work on a wide range of authentic material in Italian to expand their vocabulary and range of expressions and to introduce them to contemporary issues and culture.
Students on this module will be introduced to some of the most important literary, visual and cinematic works from twentieth century Latin America.
The works from selected writers pertaining to the Latin American Literary Boom will feature on this module, as well as some of the Nobel Prize winning poets from Latin America.
Students on this module will be provided with samples of the artistic wealth (both in styles and techniques) from artists across the Latin American continent.
Attention will be paid to the question of identity as reflected in the cinemas of Cuba and Mexico; two of the most important film industries from Spanish speaking America.
The module aims to develop reading and writing skills in Spanish.
Classes use Spanish as much as possible and the module is assessed in Spanish.
Themes studied vary from year to year but are likely to include every-day life in France, an introduction to Spanish-speaking society and culture, regions and traditions.
The module aims to develop speaking and listening skills in Spanish.
Themes studied vary from year to year but are likely to include every-day life in Spanish-speaking countries, an introduction to Spanish-speaking society and culture, regions and traditions.
The module aims to expand students’ ability to express themselves in accurate written Spanish.
Major grammatical issues will be taught and/or revised, and students will work on a wide range of authentic material in Spanish to expand their vocabulary and range of expressions.
The module will be taught and assessed in Spanish.
The module aims to expand students’ ability to express themselves in accurate spoken Spanish.
Students will work on a wide range of authentic material in Spanish to expand their vocabulary and range of expressions and to introduce them to contemporary issues and culture.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the key tenets of film theory and learn to apply these to a selection of important pre- and post-war European and international films.
You will look at aspects of film style, genre and national and international contexts.You will consider canonical works from a century of cinema history by filmmakers such as Joseph von Sternberg, Alfred Hitchcock and Pedro Almodovar, and examine significant examples of technique and style.
The purpose of this module is to provide students with an introduction to the early phase of film history.
Broadly speaking, the module will be concerned with the period between 1895 and the early 1930s, from the invention of motion pictures to the establishment of sound cinema.
During this phase, film-making was largely national but the absence of the spoken word gave film a truly cosmopolitan dimension, with directors, actors and technical personnel moving freely across national boundaries.
Nonetheless distinctive national film cultures emerged, with Italy specialising in dramas set in the ancient world, France making ample use of theatre and popular literature, Germany developing the new medium within broader artistic phenomena such as Expressionism, the Soviets pioneering political montage, and, of module, Hollywood, and its studio system, popularising stars and genres across the world.
This module will introduce students to a number of different media encountered in the study of visual culture.
By understanding the technical characteristics of a range of art works students will be able to assess the expressive and stylistic possibilities of offered by different media.
Students will study a rich variety of visual cultures in Europe and Latin America from the Middle Ages to the present day.
Mediaeval illuminated manuscripts, mural decorations in Renaissance Italy, sculpture, photography and fashion and textiles will be among the media that will be the object of our analysis this year.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the fundamental algebraic structures, including familiar integers and polynomial rings.
You will learn how to apply Euclid's algorithm to find the greatest common divisor of two integers, and use mathematical induction to prove simple results.
You will examine the use of arithmetic operations on complex numbers, extract roots of complex numbers, prove De Morgan's laws, and determine whether a given mapping is bijective.
In this module you will develop an understanding of basic linear algebra, in particular the use of matrices and vectors.
You will look at the basic theoretical and computational techniques of matrix theory, examining the power of vector methods and how they may be used to describe three-dimensional space.
You will consider the notions of field, vector space and subspace, and learn how to calculate the determinant of an n x n matrix.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how mathematics has been used to describe space over the last 2,500 years.
You will look at ruler and compass constructions from ancient Greece, the influence of algebra on geometry in the renaissance, and the intricate and beautiful fractal patterns developed by Benoît Mandelbrot in the 1970s.
You will learn to sketch simple curves using polar coordinates, draw and classify conics, and use simple arguments to distinguish between countable and uncountable sets.
In this module, you will develop an understanding of the key concepts in Calculus, including differentiation and integration.
You will learn how to factorise polynomials and separate rational functions into partial fractions, differentiate commonly occurring functions, and find definite and indefinite integrals of a variety of functions using substitution or integration by parts.
You will also examine how to recognise the standard forms of first-order differential equations, and reduce other equations to these forms and solve them.
In this module you will develop an understanding of key mathematical concepts such as the construction of real numbers, limits and convergence of sequences, and continuity of functions.
You will look at the infinite processes that are essential for the development of areas such as calculus, determining whether a given sequence tends to a limit, and finding the limits of sequences defined recursively.
In this module, you will develop an understanding of how the techniques for solving differential equations can be applied to describe the real world.
You will look at situations from balls flying through the air to planets orbiting the stars, including why the moon continues to orbit the Earth and not the Sun.
You will consider the chatotic motion of a pendulum, and examine Einstein's theory of special relativity to describe the propagation of matter and light at high speeds.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the notion of probability and the basic theory and methods of statistics.
You will look at random variables and their distributions, calculate probabilities of events that arise from standard distributions, estimate means and variances, and carry out t tests for means and differences of means.
You will also consider the notions of types of error, power and significance levels, gaining experience in sorting a variety of data sets in a scientific way.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the calculus functions of more than one variable and how it may be used in areas such as geometry and optimisation.
You learn how to manipulate partial derivatives, construct and manipulate line integrals, represent curves and surfaces in higher dimensions, calculate areas under a curve and volumes between surfaces, and evaluate double integrals, including the use of change of order of integration and change of coordinates.
This course introduces students to the socio-cultural contexts, functions, philosophies, techniques, and organising principles of a variety of musics of the world; musics from at least three continents will be studied.
These musical traditions will be approached from both theoretical and practical perspectives, also giving a variety of opportunities for hands-on experience.
Course content will vary from year to year according to staff interests, availability of musicians to provide workshops, and to ensure freshness of approach.
A typical curriculum might cover the following regions and theoretical themes:
This course introduces students to a range of key debates and issues in contemporary musicology and to a range of key issues concerning music in the contemporary world.
It encourages students to think about music’s relation to social and cultural contexts and introduces them to unfamiliar musical styles and repertoires as well as broaden understanding of those closer to home.
It hones students’ skills in reading a wide variety of critical and theoretical writing about music.
This course will survey some of the key contemporary issues in music that have arisen from the changes of the modern world, as well as contemporary debates in musicology.
The twentieth century in particular has seen a transformation of musical cultures across the world, and this course looks at a range of the issues and controversies that have emerged as a result.
The study of music has broadened to include many more social, cultural and political.
This course will introduce students to truly contemporary ways of studying music, combining approaches and issues traditionally associated with musicology, ethnomusicology and popular music studies, divisions which are becoming increasingly blurred.
Lecture topics may include:
• Ideas of ‘authenticity’ in music
• Value judgements about music
• Protection and preservation of music
• Heritage and revivals
• Music and tourism
• New forms of fusion and hybridity
• The idea of ‘world music’.
• Music and identity
• Music and gender
• Music and race
• Music and nationalism
This course introduces a wide range of repertories within the history of music.
It stimulates students to relate features of musical compositions and performances to their wider historical contexts and gives students a fundamental knowledge of specific musical cultures.
It provides students with opportunities to develop skills in research and information retrieval and in critical reading of primary and secondary literature, to receive formative feedback on those skills, and to build a foundation for higher-level study.
The course will offer students a conceptual map of musical styles, composers and practices by introducing them to a wide chronological range of repertories, from early music to music of the twentieth century.
It will emphasise questions of change, interaction and transmission through the study of specific forms and repertories in their historical context.
Lectures will be designed around major repertorial moments (e.g.
Stravinsky in 1910) or problems (e.g.
the post-Beethovenian symphony), to bring together questions of form, style, performing practice and historical context.
This course introduces concepts underlying the historical and critical study of music.
It enables students to begin thinking critically about the priorities that underlie historical texts from different intellectual traditions and stimulates them to relate features of musical compositions and performances to wider historical contexts.
This course introduces students to the different kinds of historical question that we can ask about music, and interrogates some of the terminology and categories frequently used in the secondary literature (e.g.
canonisation, reception, tradition, nationalism, exoticism, the work concept).
Case-studies are used to illuminate specific topics and problems in the historiography of a wide variety of musics.
This module will introduce you to foundational thinkers and texts in the history of political thought and international relations theory.
The first half will explore ideas of community, politics, order and justice in ancient early Christian thought from Socrates to Augustine.
The second half will explore how themes of war, peace and the state, as well as liberalism, imperialism and resistance, are developed from the early modern to contemporary period in thinkers such as Hobbes, Kant, Hegel, Smith, Mill, Marx and Fanon.
This course provides an introduction to developmental psychology, which seeks to understand and explain changes in an individual’s physical, cognitive, and social capacities across the lifespan.
The overarching themes are to describe changes in an individual’s observed behaviour over time, and to uncover the processes that underlie these changes.
The course begins by introducing the historical and conceptual issues underlying developmental psychology and the research methods used for studying individuals at different ages.
It then proceeds to address physical development in the prenatal period, followed by cognitive and social development during infancy.
The course then examines change during childhood by introducing major theories of cognitive development and addressing the social contexts of development (parents, peers, and social relationships; morality, altruism, and aggression).
The course concludes by addressing the physical, cognitive, and social changes of adulthood and ageing.
This module provides an introduction to the concept of abnormal psychology.
The course starts with developing an understanding and knowledge about how we define abnormality in psychology and how this has developed and changed throughout history.
Different approaches to understanding abnormal psychology are covered, starting with the biomedical model of abnormality.
Following this, social and cultural approaches to abnormality are covered, followed by the philosophy of abnormality.
Psychodynamic, behavioural and cognitive approaches to abnormality are also covered in detail.
There is a focus on psychological disorders as we currently classify them in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM).
The hierarchy of evidence in clinical psychology research is also covered.
‘We seem, as it were, to have conquered and peopled half the world in a fit of absence of mind.’ (Sir John Seeley, The Expansion of England, 1883).
Despite Seeley’s assertion of accidental conquest, at its zenith the British empire decidedly controlled over a quarter of the world’s global real estate, and a fifth of the world’s population.
The economic, cultural and global impact of British colonialism is still very much apparent today - from contested borders and inter-state disputes, through languages and cultures, to the inequities in wealth and trade that exist between the prosperous ‘North’ and the underdeveloped ‘South’.
Why, then, was imperial expansion so vehemently defended by its protagonists in the nineteenth century?
And what made colonial conquest, colonisation, and economic exploitation of non-European spaces feasible on such a global scale and for so long?
These are the ‘big questions’ that underpin this module.
Using documentary sources and specialist texts and articles, we investigate various aspects of British colonial rule from the perspective of its practitioners and from that of their colonial ‘subjects’.
The intention is to understand European imperialism on its own terms, to interrogate the cultural and conceptual discourses that underpinned its existence, and to reflect upon the many ways in which the history of European empire has shaped the modern world in which we live today.
At the beginning of the twentieth century, the British Empire reached its zenith and yet, by the 1960s, it had all but disappeared.
This module covers the history of Britain’s expansion and contraction in the first two-thirds of the twentieth century, from the outbreak of the Anglo-Boer War to the achievement of African independence during the premiership of Harold Macmillan.
Case studies focus on the Empire’s presence in metropolitan life, the emerging Dominion powers; the contribution of the empire to the First World War; the rise of Indian nationalism; the Empire in the Middle East and South-East Asia; and the role of the Cold War in decolonisation.
Recurrent themes include economics and empire; the meaning of ‘race’; the nature of colonial rule; global power and international relations; local responses to British colonialism; and the rise of colonial nationalism.
In antiquity, the history of science was not always a narrative of progress, and common beliefs and scientific theory were generally at odds.
This module explores some of the unexpected twists and turns in the history of ancient science, for instance attempts at explaining phenomena such as earthquakes, volcano eruptions or even thunder or rainbows and considers topics including horoscopes, music theory, alchemy and atoms.
The approach of this module is firmly comparative, and the geographical scope is wide: from the British Isles to the Crusader States.
The period c.1000–1250 in Europe saw many key developments, including: the establishment of universities and of the Inquisition; the persecution of heretics, religious minorities and of perceived sexual deviants; and the growth of vernacular literature.
The traditional historiography of western political thought has a tendency to jump from the Ancient Greeks to Augustine to Machiavelli, ignoring the wealth of ideas and theories to be found in between.
This module seeks to supplement, and even challenge, this standard canon by paying attention to the ‘lesser’ thinkers that helped to shape the intellectual dismodule of the medieval and early modern periods.
Beginning with Cicero, this module proceeds chronologically to explore the development of central debates about the role and nature of authority in society.
This module studies the birth of a new European order.
It runs from the slow disintegration and eventual collapse of the Roman empire in the West to the beginnings of a new European empire under the Carolingians.
The Germanic ‘barbarians’ who took over former Roman provinces and areas under Roman influence in what we now call Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Spain evolved between them a collection of states and a range of international relations that would shape the whole of European politics and society for centuries to come.
We take a mixture of thematic and narrative approaches to this vast topic, using primary sources in translation throughout, and explore the nature of the new states, their ruling elites, their religion and culture, and their relations (friendly and hostile) with the wider world of the old Byzantine empire and the new empire of the Islamic Caliphate.
Between 1914 and 1947, Europe was in the grip of continent in what the French leader Charles de Gaulle termed a ‘Second Thirty Years War’.
The First World War swept away much of the old order, triggering the collapse of the great continental empires and giving birth to a series of parliamentary regimes unstable new nation states.
The October Revolution launched a radical new project that redefined the political landscape of the continent and fuelled the emergence of the radical Right.
Beset by economic crises and political radicalisation liberalism and parliamentary democracy were soon in full retreat as a series of brutal regimes took power.
These new states used repression but also welfare in order to construct new hierarchies of insiders and outsiders as European populations were drawn into new methods of surveillance and persecution.
The module examines Italian fascism; Nazism; Stalinism; the civil war and the origins of the Franco regime in Spain; and the Holocaust in a wider continental framework context that highlights the shared experience of Europeans from Moscow to Madrid and from Brussels to Berlin.
In the first half of the twentieth century, Europe was the dark continent.
Europe has changed more since 1945 than during any other time in history.
From a rubble-strewn, war-torn continent to one of the richest, most privileged parts of the world, the transformation has been remarkable.
Yet this process was neither inevitable, nor without risks and tensions.
This module explores the major political developments of the second half of the twentieth century, including: the consequences of the end of the Second World War; the occupation of Germany, denazification, and the Nuremberg Trials; the postwar tensions between the superpowers which led to the onset and course of the Cold War in Europe; the communist takeover of Eastern Europe; the ‘thirty glorious years’ of economic growth, social democracy and integration in the EEC in Western Europe; decolonisation and its consequences for the European powers; the collapse of the dictatorships in Spain, Portugal and Greece; the oil crises, the end of the ‘postwar boom’, and the rise of neoliberalism; the fall of communism and the demise of the Soviet Union; and the major postCold War events such as German unification and the wars in Yugoslavia.
Beginning in the years shortly before the Fourth Crusade captured and sacked Constantinople in April 1204, this module traces the slow decline and fall of the Byzantine empire (also known as Byzantium).
It will examine how the Byzantines regrouped in the successor state of Nicaea and slowly recovered from the disaster of 1204 and ends with the Ottoman capture of Constantinople in 1453 and the fall of last Byzantine outpost of Mistra seven years later.
The Tudors represent a compelling family drama of powerful men and women, passion and betrayal, jealous rivalries and resentments played out over three generations.
The Tudor period is one of the most familiar and popular periods of British history, with the charismatic Henry VIII and his daughter Elizabeth I featuring in countless films, TV programmes, and books.
Yet beyond being good ‘box office’, the Tudors matter.
This was a hugely formative period, which saw dramatic change, innovation, and exploration.
During the sixteenth century, institutions were created, laws passed, and precedents set that remain at the heart of the English polity today.
The Tudor period saw the beginnings of the modern state, the development of national bureaucracy and administration, the establishment of the Church of England, and the genesis of a belief in national sovereignty.
Drawing on the most recent historiography, this module reconsiders familiar assessments of these most infamous of monarchs.
In recent years, Henry VII has emerged less as a dour man than a tenacious and farsighted survivor who laid the foundations for the achievements of his son and grandchildren.
Edward VI is now considered less a weak and sickly boy manipulated by powerful men, but a young man on the threshold of power.
Mary should be considered a political pioneer, the first woman to wear the crown of England and who showed that women could rule with all the power of kings.
Elizabeth was less an unimpeachable ‘Good Queen Bess’ than a reckless monarch whose refusal to marry and name a successor ultimately led to the demise of the Tudor dynasty and the accession of a Scottish king to the English throne.
The accession of James VI of Scotland to the English throne in 1603 saw the union of the crowns and the establishment of the Stuart dynasty in England.
During the century that followed, Britain’s political and constitutional foundations were forged.
It was an age of intense religious debate and radical politics.
The demise of the Stuart dynasty in 1714, left the monarchy changed forever.
This module explores a century that would redefine the country and remains critical for understanding the nation today.
This module explores one of the most vibrant centuries in British history.
Frequently seen as an age of liberty, luxury, elegance and excess it examines the period from the accession of the Hanoverian George I to the death of George IV at the end of the ‘Regency’ period.
Yet beneath this commercially successful and fashionably polite society lay fears of riot and disorder, debt, poverty and rising crime rates.
Two striking results of this were campaigns for greater public decency and the expansion of laws imposing the death sentence for hundreds of criminal offences.
The module asks: to what extent did the Georgian era witness the birth of modernity, consumer society, commercialised leisure and freedom of the press?
Were the British a polite and commercial people, or an ungovernable rabble?
How ‘bloody’ was the penal code in a period when public sentiment began to turn against hanging?
In answering these and other questions, students also make use of digitised primary sources such as Eighteenth Century Collections Online and The Old Bailey Online.
The Ottoman Empire was the largest and longest-surviving Muslim empire in history.
This module explores the empire at its height, when it reached Croatia and Algeria in the west, the Persian Gulf in the east, Ukraine in the north and Yemen in the south, while being centred in the Middle East and Balkans.
Covering the period from the conquest of Constantinople to the accession of the modernising Sultan Selim III, the module traces dramatic changes in the both the internal dynamics of the empire and its position in the world, exploring topics including the political structure of the empire, the role of Islam and religious conversion, the place of the large non-Muslim population, Ottoman literature and culture, and the empire’s relations with Christian powers in Europe.
Connecting Europe with Asia and Africa, the Ottoman Empire played a critical role in the emergence of the modern world, and the module engages with key questions in early modern global history, including the development of the concept of Europe and the shift of economic and political power from east to west.
After the Fall of Byzantium almost all Greeks lived in the Ottoman Empire and the Frankish outposts in the Eastern Mediterranean.
This module will examine the history of the Greeks who remained under Ottoman and Frankish rule, and those who chose to try their luck abroad, laying the foundations of the first of many Greek diaspora communities linking East and West.
The main part of the module will be devoted to a detailed overview of the political, social and cultural history of Greece and the leading Greek diaspora communities throughout the world during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
This module will provide an introduction to the main medical schools and writers from the Hippocratic Corpus to Galen, situating medical theory in the wider context of classical philosophy.
It will also cover the reception of ancient medicine in Late Antiquity, the Middle Ages and the Arabic world.
The period 1000-1400 in western Europe witnessed the development of mass heresies, commanding wide and often international followings.
This module will follow the responses to these from the preaching and launching of a crusade to the development of the Inquisition.
Beginning with a brief overview of Iberia, Africa and the Americas in the late fifteenth century, this module explores how subsequent encounters between societies on both sides of the Atlantic created the complex world of colonial Latin America.
This module examines the social, cultural, economic, political and religious development of Latin America from the first encounters to 1650 and emphasises the transatlantic connections between Spain, Portugal, West Africa and the Americas that resulted in the dynamic movement of people and ideas within and across the broader Iberian world.
Themes covered include colonial encounters and issues of translation, religious change and local religiosity, Iberian and indigenous contributions to scientific knowledge, colonial hierarchies and inequalities, exploitation and enslavement, and strategies of resistance.
Students gain not only a basic understanding of social transformations in early colonial Latin America, but also approaches to critically analysing the impact of hierarchies of gender, race and status on individuals living in colonial society
This module scrutinises the main political, cultural, and social features and the historical “turning points” of this comparatively young nation state of Italy.
Students will discover how the past shapes and influences the present in Italian culture and politics and will learn the challenge of the various unresolved issues and how the state reacts to them.
It will also explore the forces behind the unification of the country in the 1800s, fascism, the impact of the Cold War, the high levels of politicisation in national life as well as the figure of Silvio Berlusconi who has dominated recent Italian politics.
This module will examine superpower relations during the Cold War, including the collapse of the USSR and the period of uncertainty which followed.
It takes a global comparative perspective in telling the history of international relations in the period 1945-91, and the development of a ‘New World Order’ to 1998.
Key themes will include nuclear tensions and the space race, and the proxy-wars waged in China, Korea, Afghanistan, the Middle-East and elsewhere in an era of ‘peace that is no peace’, as George Orwell predicted in August 1945.
This module explores American economic hegemony from the Atlantic Charter to the end of the Great Recession.
Topics in America’s long run ‘rise and fall’ include the Marshall Plan; the ‘Golden Age’ of western economic growth; the rise of welfare spending and economic planning; the fall of the Keynesian consensus; stagflation and the rise of the New Right; the rise of the less-developed economies; the end of the Soviet system; and the collapse of U.S.
and UK banking.
Who were the Victorians?
What did they believe in?
How far were notions of vice and virtue in conflict in the Victorian period?
And how are the Victorian years still relevant to us today?
This module offers an overview of the dramatic political, gender, cultural and social contours of life in the British Isles during the Victorian period, so often still seen as the height of British progress and self-confidence.
The module is framed between the accession of Queen Victoria to the throne in 1837 - aged just eighteen – and her death in 1901.
Topics studied along the way include the role and image of the monarchy; the decline of the aristocracy; the lives of the urban and industrial working classes; race and Black lives; politics in the age of Gladstone and Disraeli; feminism and the Victorian women’s movement; marriage, morality and Victorian sexuality; democracy, citizenship and the demand for the vote from various voices; religion, science and doubt; Victorian art and visual culture; and famine, loyalism and nationalism in Victorian Ireland.
This is a module that is essential for anyone wishing to understand not just the Victorians, but the nature of the world they bequeathed, and leaves students wanting to study modern British history in greater depth during their final year of study.
This module seeks to investigate politics, society and culture in modern Britain during the sixty-year period encompassed between the outbreak of World War One in 1914 and Britain’s entry into the European Economic Community in 1973.
Topics include the impact of two world wars upon British cultural life and gender roles, the decline of Liberalism and rise of Labour, the growth of leisure and the mass media, post-war immigration, and the end of the British empire.
This module offers an overview of US history since 1900.
It examines the social, cultural, economic and political contours of that history, incorporating topics such as westward expansion, industrialisation and urbanisation, the progressive era, the First World War, the Great Depression and the New Deal, the Second World War, the Cold War, domestic developments in the 1960s, the Civil Rights Movement, developments in the 1970s and the rise of the New Right in the 1980s.
The module examines the domestic and foreign policy concerns of the Clinton administration.
Particular attention is devoted to Clinton’s efforts to reshape his party and his administration’s efforts to secure peace in Northern Ireland and Israel.
The module also assesses the varied ways in which the War on Terror reshaped America’s foreign policy and how foreign policy concerns impacted the subsequent election.
It concludes with an examination of President Obama’s successful campaign and evaluates the role that racial and religious prejudice played in his election.
Particular attention is given to the shaping experiences of race, ethnicity, gender and class in the American experience.
This module examines the difficult years of the early 20th century in Spain, including the civil war.
It seeks to explain the causes of Spain's superstructural instability by looking not only 'top-down' at political tensions and economic contradictions, but also 'bottom-up' at the social and cultural fragmentation of Spain during this period.
This module adopts a thematic approach within a broadly chronological framework.
It explores state and society under the rule of General Franco, and traces the processes of social, economic and cultural change which precipitated the crisis of the dictatorship and Spain's transition to democracy.
This module explores how China made its transition from isolated, self-contained ‘Middle Kingdom’ in the middle of the nineteenth century, to its present-day status as global superpower.
The module starts with the Opium Wars, which announced the arrival of foreign powers in China, but also marked the beginning of its opening up to a new age.
It then follows China’s development, navigating the major themes of Chinese modern history including the social stresses and political movements that led to the overthrow of the Qing Dynasty in the Revolution of 1911, and the May Fourth Movement of 1919; the origins and effects of the Sino-Japanese War; the rise of Chinese Communism and its impact after Mao came to power, from the Long March to the Cultural Revolution; and China’s progress since 1978 in balancing communist principles with market-driven economic growth.
Overall, the module examines how a new nation was built, not just in political and social terms but also through the experiences of the people who lived through it.
The module explores perceptions of the holy man in different religions and traditions through the centuries, in the wider historical and cultural context.
Through a variety of visual sources such as icons, reliquaries and other forms of sacred art, and textual sources (in translation), including scriptural, theological, philosophical, hagiographical, and hymnographical texts, students familiarise themselves with important aspects of sanctity and spirituality, assessing the place and role of holy men and women in society, both in East and West.
Covering Hindu, Buddhist, Greek, Jewish, Christian and Islamic traditions, the module examines the ideals, practices and experiences of hermits and coenobetic monks, stylites and holy fools, martyrs and married saints, among other groups, looking at ways in which ‘holiness’ and ‘sacred space’ can be a significant aspect of historical research in our attempt to understand a period, a society and a culture.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the core concepts of the digital age, looking at how today's computer networks, devices and infrastructure underpin nearly all forms of aesthetic, cultural social and political life.
You will consider the concepts of technicity, affective turn, digital subjectivity and extended mind, creative expression and participation in the digital era, amateur production, free software, fun and politics, self-organisation, media archaeology and sonic architectures.
You will examine the systematic challenges brought about by digital change and critically interpret and analyse digital phenomena.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how creativity is constrained and enabled by the industrial logics of the creative industries.
You will focus on film, television and digital media, exploring issues such as economics and financing, pitching and commissioning, policy and regulation, copyright, formats and global trade, ratings and audience measurement, branding and marketing, digital production logics, and production cultures.
You will also consider a number of important industry-oriented research skills, such as interviewing, market/demographic analysis, locating and interpreting legal documents, and archival research.
This module expands students’ knowledge of concepts characteristic of ethnomusicology and equips them with stimulating approaches to understanding, enjoying and studying their own music as well as that of others.
It broadens students’ understanding of the possibilities of music as human activity and of the wider contexts in which music exists in the world.
It raises issues concerning the political and ethical challenges involved with studying and writing about music across the globe, whether historically or in the contemporary world, and develops students’ ability to critically think and write about music in contexts that are both familiar and unfamiliar.
This module will involve a combination of the study of musical repertoires from different parts of the globe and introduction to a range of methodologies that might be applied to a broad range of musics and contexts.
Particular repertoires and areas will vary, but approaches and issues may include: the idea of music as culture/society; looking at music beyond concepts of ‘art’; understanding the strengths and problems of fieldwork as a methodology; looking at musical change and hybridisation; issues relating to music and gender, sexuality, class, ethnicity or religion; studying musical instruments; mapping music geographically, socially and historically; and the colonial legacy of ethnomusicology and ethical issues of contemporary research.
This module explores ways that electronic media and technology have brought about change in and opened up new possibilities for musical production, consumption, sounds, practices, experience, contexts and meanings.
It considers the role of electronic media and technology in preserving and documenting musical culture as well as in changing it, and it examines how developments in electronic media and technology have affected and continue to affect dynamics of power in musical production and consumption across the world.
The module explores the effects of electronic media and technology on popular, traditional and classical musics and introduces concepts and techniques for the study of the interaction of music, media and technology.
It also encourages a deeper and more critical understanding of music, music making and musical culture through study in both familiar and unfamiliar cultures and contexts.
The module will introduce students to a range of ways in which electronic media and technology have affected and transformed musical cultures across the world through their fundamental ability to: record and store musical sound; create new sounds, new ways of combining sounds and new ways of synching sound with other media; turn musical sound into a commodity; separate musical sound from live performance context; amplify music; mass produce music; mass disseminate music; and greatly alter dynamics of power in the production and consumption of music.
The module will cover a range of key phenomena and issues in contemporary musical culture that are inextricably linked to electronic media and technology.
Exact topics will vary, but may include: popular and mass-mediated music; recorded music; electronic music; the impact of technology on compositional practices; music industries; piracy; film music, video and multimedia; music and the Internet; globalisation; debates on the value of mass mediated music; and questions of power and representation.
This is an introductory course exploring jazz in its historical, theoretical and practical developments.
It aims to expose students to the major historical periods of jazz and their associated musical characteristics.
It also addresses important social and political influences that have fed into the making of the genre and its different scenes.
A small component of the course will be dedicated to basic jazz theory and practice.
There will also be critical consideration of meta-narratives in the making of jazz as a musical canon.
Democracy in Britain explores the theory and practice of modern British politics.
It’s designed primarily to familiarise students with the ways in which British democracy has evolved, how it operates today and some of the challenges that confront it.
You’ll gain knowledge of the ‘nuts and bolts’ of the political system and you’ll learn about how and why the system operates in the way it does, the quality of contemporary democratic governance and key features of political behaviour in Britain.
The first half of the module will focus on the character, development and institutions of Britain’s ‘traditional’ democratic system.
The second half will focus on dynamic elements of British democracy, including political parties and party competition, political and especially voting behaviour, and attitudes towards democracy.
This module concerns the theories underlying discussion of political problems and issues today.
Examining a range of key ideas and the thinkers who have developed them, the module will consider what lies at the roots of contemporary debates about laws, policies, protest, and resistance, and it will it enable you to make sense of these debates.
Topics covered will likely include liberty, equality, human rights, punishment, democracy, gender, race, multiculturalism and cultural hegemony, civil disobedience, resistance and political violence – as well as other issues in domestic and international justice.
Throughout, the module aims to show how abstract theories have practical relevance, and conversely how questions about what states, citizens and other actors ought to do are illuminated by thinking about them theoretically.
In general, it offers a broad survey of political theorising today.
This module examines the relationship between states and markets, power and wealth, in International Political Economy (IPE).
You’ll be introduced to the key concepts and theoretical debates in IPE.
It tackles issues such as the globalisation of trade, finance, and production, the continued problems of development and democratic governance in the world economy, and emerging questions surrounding global flows, networks and spaces.
You’ll explore the history of regimes, crises, and competing theories of political economy from the nineteenth century to the present day.
Throughout the module the emphasis is on how political institutions operate in international politics to regulate the creation of wealth, and who benefits from these arrangements.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the main theoretical approaches of the study of political behaviour.
You will look at major current controversies in the field of political behaviour and critically analyse and evaluate theoretical and empirical arguments through the interpretation of bivariate and multivariate analysis of data.
You will consider the ways in which individuals directly or indirectly influence political choices at various levels of the political system, and the relationship between voters and political parties.
You will also examine the theory and practice of how electors decide whether (or not) to vote and whom to vote for.
This module provides a comprehensive overview of Security Studies as a field of International Relations.
You’ll start by examining the issue of security and key security issues and then move on to look at more general theories of security and how these have changed, especially in an age of terrorism.
The second half of the module will focus on the sub-field of military innovation studies as states around the world renew their focus on conventional/hybrid warfare and defence spending rises.
It will explore the defence reforms of major powers including Britain, China, Germany, Russia, Ukraine, and the USA.
We will examine the content and sources of change in defence policy, including changes to the objectives of defence policy, military procurement, force structures, and military doctrine.
The module will analyse the extent to which these reforms have helped states concerned to deliver defence and security policy and the factors which facilitate effective innovation, emulation and adaptation within military organisations.
It also explores the challenges that states face in mobilising societies to face contemporary security threats.
This module introduces students to major political thinkers from the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, including the works of Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Wollstonecraft, Mill, Marx, Nietzsche, and Douglass.
The module will introduce you to the themes, argumentative strategies, and critical interpretations of these thinkers, and critically assess these interpretations against the texts themselves.
It also aims to show how study of these thinkers illuminates contemporary discussion of freedom, pluralism, sovereignty, and legitimacy, even where no reference is made to them.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the scope and limitations of global governance.
You will look at the creation of international organisations and the role of states in this process, how different organisations are designed, and the effectiveness and functioning of different types of organisation.
You will consider the role of international organisations in creating policy, pursuing organisational objectives, and altering the relations between actors at various levels.
You will also examine the significance of major challenges for global governance, such as countering international terrorism, policing organised crime, and preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the modern human rights regime.
You will look at what human rights are and their historical origins, including governance and the international legal regime.
You will consider genocide and debates about intervention, examining the war in the former Yugoslavia, genocide in Darfur, and current issues in Syria.
You will explore transitional justice, the laws of war and international criminal tribunals, and assess the remedies available to victims of human rights abuses.
The purpose of this module is to provide a broad overview of how citizens, politicians and the media interact across Western democracies during both electoral and governing periods.
The first part of the module will focus on the production and consumption of political news, while the second part will address campaigns and their effects as well as focusing on contemporary debates in political communication, including ethical issues.
While the module will cover key aspects of political communication in the United Kingdom, the focus will be mostly comparative across countries.
Seminars are centred on practical activities that allow students to apply the knowledge presented in the module to contemporary real-world examples of political communication in action.
Examples include analysis of political speeches, advertisements, candidate debates, campaign strategies, and news coverage of political issues.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the major debates in European and some Anglo-American philosophy.
You will look at the key texts by eighteenth and nineteenth-century philosophers Immanuel Kant and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, examining the continuing significance of their ideas.
You will consider the major epistemological, ethical and aesthetical issues their idea raise, and the problems associated with the notion of modernity.
You will also analyse the importance of the role of history in modern philosophy via Hegel's influence.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how the rationalist and empiricist traditions in philosophy influence contemporary thought in the philosophy of mind.
You will look at the continuing relevance of the mind-body problem to the question of what it is to be a human being and consider the connections between the analytic and European traditions in philosophy with respect to language, subjectivity, and the phenomenology of experience.
You will also examine the importance of consciousness to contemporary debates in philosophy, psychology and cognitive science.
This module will enable you to develop detailed and more critical understandings of core criminological theory and key issues within the discipline.
Drawing on sociological, biological and psychological perspectives as a way of understanding criminal behaviour, you will consider key issues such as drug use, organised crime, white collar crime and terrorism.
Lectures and seminars promote the application of these theoretical perspectives through case studies and empirical research.
This module provides you with a sociological analysis of contemporary society, helping you to understand major social and economic changes in the contemporary world through key sociological debates concerning, amongst others, the changing nature of the organisation of production and the changing nature of class.
You will also examine the transformation of cultural forms in contemporary society and apply these theories to contemporary social issues.
In this module you will develop an understanding of vectors and matrices within the context of vector spaces, with a focus on deriving and using various decompositions of matrices, including eigenvalue decompositions and the so-called normal forms.
You will learn how these abstract notions can be used to solve problems encountered in other fields of science and mathematics, such as optimisation theory.
In this module you will develop an understanding of ring theory and how this area of algebra can be used to address the problem of factorising integers into primes.
You will look at how these ideas can be extended to develop notions of 'prime factorisation' for other mathematical objects, such as polynomials.
You will investigate the structure of explicit rings and learn how to recognise and construct ring homomorphisms and quotients.
You will examine the Gaussian integers as an example of a Euclidean ring, Kronecker's theorem on field extensions, and the Chinese Remainder Theorem.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the basic concepts of graph theory and linear programming.
You will consider how railroad networks, electrical networks, social networks, and the web can be modelled by graphs, and look at basic examples of graph classes such as paths, cycles and trees.
You will examine the flows in networks and how these are related to linear programming, solving problems using the simplex algorithm and the strong duality theorem.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the concepts arising when the boundary conditions of a differential equation involves two points.
You will look at eigenvalues and eigenfunctions in trigonometric differential equations, and determine the Fourier series for a periodic function.
You will learn how to manipulate the Dirac delta-function and apply the Fourier transform.
You will also examine how to solve differential equations where the coefficients are variable.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the convergence of series.
You will look at the Weierstrass definition of a limit and use standard tests to investigate the convergence of commonly occuring series.
You will consider the power series of standard functions, and analyse the Intermediate Value and Mean Value Theorems.
You will also examine the properties of the Riemann integral.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the basic principles of the mathematical theory of probability.
You will use the fundamental laws of probability to solve a range of problems, and prove simple theorems involving discrete and continuous random variables.
You will learn how to forumulate an explain fundamental limit theorems, such as the weak law of large numbers and the central limit theorem.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the basic complex variable theory.
You will look at the definitions of continuity and differentiability of a complex valued function at a point, and how Cauchy-Riemann equations can be applied.
You will examine how to use a power series to define the complex expontential function, and how to obtain Taylor series of rational and other functions of standard type, determining zeros and poles of given functions.
You will also consider how to use Cauchy's Residue Theorem to evaulate real integrals.
In this module the vector calculus methods are applied to a variety of problems in the physical sciences, with a focus on electromagnetism and optics.
On completion of the module, the student should be able to calculate relevant physical quantities such as field strengths, forces, and energy distributions in static as well as dynamical electromagnetic systems and be able to treat mathematically the interactions between moving electrical charges, magnets and optical fields.
An introduction to the literature of the English Renaissance, beginning in the 1590s with erotic narrative poems by Christopher Marlowe and William Shakespeare, and concluding with John Milton's drama, Samson Agonistes, first published in 1671.
Marlowe and Thomas Middleton represent the extraordinarily rich drama of the period, while John Donne and Andrew Marvell are the most famous of the so-called metaphysical poets.
A feature of the module is the attention given to situating these works in their historical and cultural contexts.
Between the English Revolution and the French Revolution, British literature was pulled by opposing cultural forces and experienced an extraordinary degree of experimentation.
The eighteenth century is sometimes called The Age of Reason, but it is also called The Age of Sensibility.
It was dominated by male writers, but also facilitated the rise of the woman novelist and the emergence of coteries of intellectual women.
It continued to be an essentially rural nation, but London grew to be the biggest city in the world and industrialisation was beginning to herd workers into towns.
This module explores some of the tensions and oppositions which were played out in the literature of this period.
This module is framed by the personal: it begins with Queen Victoria’s private diaries of her happiest days in Scotland, and ends just beyond the Victorian period, with one troubled man’s intensely-felt account of his Victorian childhood.
You will look at examples of the novelistic form, including sensation, Romantic, domestic realist and sentimental novels.
Some of the works you will study are well-known and truly canonical, while others will be excitingly unfamiliar; all, however, will contribute to a sense of the variety and contradictions inherent in being Victorian.
This module will introduce you to a broad range of literatures from the period 1780 to 1830.
The module aims to problematise and scrutinise the idea of Romanticism as a homogenous literary movement and to raise awareness of the range of competing literary identities present in the period.
This module will familiarise you with a range of influential critical and theoretical ideas in literary studies, influential and important for all the areas and periods you will study during your degree.
Providing an introduction to the study of literary modernism, a period of intense experimentation in diverse sets of cultural forms.
This module deals with issues such as modernist aesthetics; genre; gender and sexuality; the fragment; time and narration; stream-of-consciousness; history, politics and colonialism; technology, and the status of language and the real.
Develop your skills in the close reading and critical analysis of Middle English poetry, focusing on set passages from three important fourteenth century texts: Chaucer’s Troilus and Criseyde, Langland’s Piers Plowman, and the anonymous Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.
The module invites you to think about how poets understood the status of Middle English as a literary language, in comparison with Latin and French.
In this module you will explore a major literary genre which attracted all the great poets of late medieval England: the dream vision.
It considers the use of the genre in the works of Chaucer, Langland and the Gawain-poet, as well as examining the visions in mystical writing.
These authors’ treatments of the genre repeatedly ask us to reflect on the relationship of literature to experience, poetic authority and identity, and the development of English as a literary language.
Romance was one of the most popular genres of secular literature in late medieval England.
You will begin by looking at the Arthurian romances of Chretien de Troyes, before going on to consider works by Chaucer, the Gawain-poet and Sir Thomas Malory.
You will examine romances set in the mythical British past, in the classical cities of Troy, Thebes and Athens, and in the more recognisable landscapes of medieval England and France.
Attention will be paid throughout this module to the often inventive and unpredictable ways in which medieval romance works to articulate specific historical and cultural anxieties.
This module explores in-depth three supreme examples of Shakespearean comedy, tragedy and historical drama: Richard III (1592-3), A Midsummer Night's Dream (1595-6), and Macbeth (1606).
The texts covered in this module span virtually the whole period in which early modern English drama flourished: from Marlowe in c.1593 to 1634.
The texts range from famous plays like Macbeth and The Tempest to little-known comedies like The Wise-woman of Hogsden.
Two central texts will be The Witch of Edmonton and The Late Lancashire Witches, plays which deal with historically documented witchcraft accusations and scares.
Non-dramatic texts about witchcraft are also included for study, including news pamphlets, works by learned contemporaries expressing their opinions about witchcraft, and popular ballads.
This module offers the opportunity to study one very important and characteristic aspect of Milton’s Paradise Lost: his depiction of Eden, the paradise that was lost at the fall.
Throughout his account of Paradise, Milton works to make the loss of Paradise poignant by lavishing on it all his evocative powers as a poet.
You will spend at least three sessions looking at Milton's epic, covering aspects such as Edenic sex and marriage, Eden’s fauna and flora, and work in Eden.
Throughout the module images of Paradise will be given attention, starting with Hieronymus Bosch's 'The Garden of Earthly Delight'.
Alongside artworks, you will look at some of the Bible scholarship which tried to locate the site of Paradise, and deduce its fate.
Charting a progression from Galenic humoral theory to Cartesian dualism, you will consider the representation and significance of corporeality in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century texts.
Reading Renaissance plays and poetry alongside anatomical textbooks, manuals of health, erotica, and philosophical essays, the module seeks to contextualise the period's literary treatment of the body.
Explore the Victorian concept of the 'sensational' across a range of novels dating from the height of the sensation period in the 1850s and 60s.
Together, we will examine some of the magazines in which these novels were originally serialized.
Issues such as the role of public spectacle, the first detectives, advertising, domestic crime and the demonic woman will be explored in relation to the cultural and social context of this novelistic genre.
This module, which is designed to enable non-creative writing students to try a creative writing module, will give you the opportunity to work through some issues associated with short-story and/or novel writing.
Classes will alternate seminar discussions of aspects of the craft of writing with workshops in which you will interact critically and creatively with others' work.
Discover the 'dark' topics of late-Victorian and Edwardian literature.
Perhaps the most important cultural influence on these texts is the negative possibility inherent in Darwinism: that of 'degeneration', of racial or cultural reversal, explored in texts like Wells's The Time Machine, and often related to the Decadent literature of Wilde and others.
An introduction to American literature via the tradition which David Reynolds labels 'dark reform'; a satirical and often populist mode which seek out the abuses which lie beneath the optimistic surface of American life, often through grotesque, scatological, sexualized and carnivalesque imagery.
You will explore the contention that because of America's history, with its notions of national consensus and fear of class conflict, political critique in America has often had to find indirect expression.
With the appointment of Carol Ann Duffy as the first woman Poet Laureate for the United Kingdom in 2009, poetry by women became publicly validated as never before.
Setting fresh horizons for women’s poetry, Duffy joined Gillian Clarke who has served as National Poet of Wales since 2008; Liz Lochhead was appointed Scots Makar in 2011, and Paula Meehan was appointed in 2013 to the Ireland Chair of Poetry.
By careful reading of two collections by each poet, you will assess how each poet has moved from a position of rebellion, liminality or minority into the very heart of the cultural institution.
In written French, the module builds on techniques acquired in first-year language modules through a particular focus on techniques of analysis, writing and rewriting, in particular on learning to construct arguments and exposés in authentic, accurate and appropriate French.
Themes studied help as preparation for the year abroad (themes may vary, examples include : Le travail en France, être jeune en France, la contestation sociale).
In this module you will further develop your ability to communicate effectively in French, in writing or orally, with good grammatical and lexical accuracy.
You will look at texts from a variety of sources and examine authentic recordings from a range of subjects.
Much of the content is delivered in French, with the exception of grammar classes, which are taught in English.
This module will focus on four texts dealing with love and desire taken from French literature; these will be studied in the light of their common themes and will be used to explore issues around the representation and understanding of passion and romance in the literary text.
This year-long module examines key examples of French cinema from its beginnings to the present day, focusing on the avant-garde and surrealist films of the 1920s, social realist films of the 1930s, the New Wave which began in the late 1950s, and its ‘postmodern’ legacy in the 1980s followed by a return to realism in the new millennium.
The module entails close, critical analysis of film style, though no prior knowledge of film theory is required.
In this module you’ll maintain and develop a broad intermediate vocabulary in German; revise the basics of German grammar and syntax and learn more complex language structures; be able to understand natural, idiomatic as well as formal spoken German as delivered by a native speaker, present information in written and spoken German; and discuss topical issues critically in written and spoken German.
This module is designed to follow on from and to build on the knowledge and skills established in the first year.
It will establish, through intensive practice and through the use of a range of learning materials, more advanced comprehension skills in written and spoken German.
The emphasis throughout will be on everyday language and day-to-day situations.
This module introduces students of German and CLC to two key figures in twentieth-century German literature, Thomas Mann and Franz Kafka.
Through an examination of the work of these writers, it explores such issues as the individual vs society, the role of the artist, and the nature of desire.
Mann’s work evinces a fascination with disorder and decadence even as it remains bound to bourgeois ideals of respectability and sobriety.
In Kafka’s work, the everyday world of bureaucracy and officialdom is invaded by fantastical and bizarre elements.
The module focuses on the unsettling and disruptive elements of these writers’ works, asking what they tell us about life in the twentieth century.
Childhood and youth - the formative periods in our lives - are obviously crucial for individuals, society and culture.
They are also contested and controversial concepts.
Children and adolescents have long been the subject of social, familial and educational pressures against which they have often rebelled in an attempt to assert their individuality and develop their own identities.
This module introduces you to a range of literary and cinematic responses to the lives of children and young people in the context of the German speaking countries from the late nineteenth century to the present day.
Drawing on a range of classic and recent texts and films, it explores the historical contexts of the theme and considers the social, political and ethical issues involved in the representation of young people and of institutions such as the school and the military.
This module includes a written and oral component, with five weekly seminars in Italian using a communicative approach.
The written part emphasises reading comprehension and essay writing, involving analysis of Italian articles and podcasts on contemporary social, cultural, and political issues.
Students will paraphrase and learn relevant vocabulary.
They'll also strengthen their grasp of Italian through grammar and vocabulary exercises.
The oral component involves structuring presentations and participating in informal debates to practice expressing opinions in Italian.
The fortnightly grammar lecture covers specific topics for understanding complex sentence structures in context.
This module is conducted in Italian, adopting a communicative approach.
In the Written component, you’ll focus on reading comprehension and essay writing, and in the oral component, you’ll have the opportunity to structure oral presentations as well as take part in informal discussions in order to learn to express your opinions in Italian.
Florence in the 15th century was one of the most vibrant and innovative artistic and cultural centres in Italy and Europe.
The cultural, philosophical and artistic life of Renaissance Florence is the focus of this module which combines the analysis of Renaissance painting, mural decoration and sculpture with that of writings on art from the time.
We look in detail at a number of works of world famous Italian Renaissance artists such a Masaccio, Sandro Botticelli, Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael and Michelangelo.
We also take a close look at texts discussing the role of the arts and artists, and the comparison between the arts by theorists such as Leon Battista Alberti, Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo Buonarroti and Giorgio Vasari.
The module will introduce you to the birth and development of Italian crime fiction and analyse the way in which this foreign imported genre was reshaped and appropriated by successive generations of Italian postwar writers.
The module aims at familiarising you with the theory—both foreign and Italian—of crime fiction.
It also focuses on the way in which the most pressing issues that dominated Italian society in the postwar period were represented by crime writers.
In this module you’ll learn to demonstrate good lexical and grammatical competence in the four skills of speaking, listening, reading, and writing in Spanish.
You’ll learn to understand and communicate effectively in Spanish across a complete range of tenses and will participate competently in conversation with a native speaker.
This module offers four hours of weekly contact time each term and an additional hour for oral practice.
The first two hours focus on reading, writing, and oral skills, combining in-class exercises with homework review based on a journalistic text.
The third hour is dedicated to listening comprehension, occasionally held in language labs.
The final hour features a grammar lecture introducing new verb tenses and structures, which are then practised in the following week.
Weekly lesson content, tutor-prepared material, and audio-visual resources like podcasts, TV, and radio programs are provided.
Classes incorporate a flexible approach, ranging from formal exposition to communicative activities in pairs and small groups.
Spanish is used predominantly in the classroom, and multimedia resources are encouraged for independent study.
Regular homework assignments are assigned.
In this module students will study films from the last twenty years in Spain.
The films selected will in different ways express representations of identity in Spain.
We will explore issues such as national and regional identities, linguistic diversity and national identity, Spanishness, cultural memory, history on screen, urban versus rural experience, cultural diversity, immigration and the portrayal of gender within new family paradigms.
On this module students will examine the ways in which critical historical moments in Latin America have been represented visually in a global context.
We will explore how political unrest in Latin America has been memorialised by both filmmakers and photographers, with the aim of re-thinking how global imaginaries concerning the rebel and revolution have been constructed in film and photography.
During the module attention will be devoted to analysing samples from early Twentieth century Mexican visual arts.
Students will study the Mexican Mural Movement and will analyse the work of its most prominent members.
Attention will be paid to the works of Diego Rivera, David Alfaro Siqueiros and José Clemente Orozco.
The first part of this module will also cover the photographic works of Edward Weston, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Tina Modotti, Mariana Yampolski, Araceli Herrera and Graciela Iturbide.
During the second part of this module students will be introduced to some of the most significant cinematic works from Mexico’s century of filmmaking.
Students will analyse some of the most important filmic genres from a wide range of directors and periods in Mexican cinematic history.
On this module students will be introduced to some areas of film theory and will learn how to apply theoretical concepts to a reading of Mexican visual arts and films.
The module is divided into two parts, the first exploring crucial issues of filmmaking, film studies and the ‘transnational’ from the perspective of largely contemporary Latin American cinema, the second focusing on a range of European films from the 1970s to the present.
The introductory two weeks of the module will introduce students to these concerns; the final two weeks of the module will bring both parts together and establish some conclusions (for example, what, if anything, constitutes a ‘European’ or ‘Latin American’ or ‘transnational’ film).
This module involves an examination of gender as it is expressed, maintained, or challenged by clothing.
It investigates a variety of Anglophone, Francophone, and German-language twentieth-century texts, including novels, fine art, and film, in which clothing and gender are closely linked.
The module introduces a range of experimental and challenging texts, encouraging critical and comparative thinking about the place of fashion and clothing in culture and society.
This module will focus on six novels dealing with the theme of transgression.
It will also look at the genre of the novel and at whether the novels studied transgress its formal parameters.
The module will be comparative in focus, studying the set texts not only individually, but also looking at thematic and formal convergences and divergences between them.
The books to be studied will be: DH Lawrence, Lady Chatterley’s Lover; Alain Robbe-Grillet, La Jalousie/Jealousy; Vladimir Nabokov, Lolita; Esther Tusquets, Stranded; Emile Zola, Thérèse Raquin; Juan Rulfo, ‘Talpa’.
This module introduces students to a range of important texts and authors, both canonical and non-canonical, from early modern Spain and France.
Yet it does so through a selection of outsider figures – characters whose aberrant or idiosyncratic identity, outlook, or behaviour sets them at odds with their society.
The characters on this module thus challenge some of society’s most deeply entrenched but often unwritten codes – of reason, gender, decorum, sexuality, class, and religion – and can thus offer important insights into the workings and values of the society whose norms they transgress.
As we shall see, though, the treatment of such figures can vary widely.
Whereas the outsider’s departure from the norm is often apparently ridiculed or censured, it can sometimes be celebrated or rehabilitated – whether by other characters within the fiction or by the literary work itself.
Indeed, the period’s fascination with marginal or transgressive characters and behaviour betrays throughout a deep unease about the validity of its own norms and standards.
In this module, you will develop an understanding of the key topics in social psychology, with a particular focus on topics that highlight over-arching debates within this area of study.
You will look at how social psychology can be applied to real-world issues, examining the social psychology of relationships, the self-concept, prejudice and group conflict, attribution theory, group decision-making, situational perspectives on evil, and non-verbal behaviour and social cognition.
In this module you will develop an understanding of cognitive development, including intelligence across the lifespan, language development, and number representation, and the development of social understanding, including social cognition, emotional development, prejudice, and adolescence.
You will look in depth at the research techniques used in developmental psychology, as well as enhancing your ability to conduct critical analyses.
In this module you will develop an understanding of different sociological approaches to the study of health and illness, with an awareness of the social patterning and causes of ill health.
You will critically examine debates in the sociology of health and illness, considering factors such as social class, gender and ethnicity.
In this module uou will develop an awareness of the changing position of the young in society, considering changing ideas about adolescence, youth and the transition to adulthood.
You will gain an insight into the significance of delinquency and the representation of delinquent and deviant youth in the media, including gangs in Biritish society and youth riots in Britain.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the sociological analysis of popular music concentrating on, but not only covering, recorded popular music since the mid-1950s.
You will gain an insight into the historical development of popular music within a social context, considering the relationships between music and mass society, music and youth culture, and the usage of popular music as a form of expression by the socially and economically marginalised, and as a from of protest.
In this module you will develop an understanding of youth culture and consider the key theoretical debates concerning youth subcultures.
You will gain an insight into the interplay between gender and ethnicity in the formation of youth cultures and subcultures, including their representation in the media.
In this module you will develop a historical and sociological understanding of the study of race, racism and ethnicity, with an awareness of the way in which these interact with other social divisions and inequalities.
You will anylse the extent to which race and ethnicity are central to how society is organised and structured, with knowledge of the models of race relations and the relevance of geography and politics.
In this module you will develop an understanding of key debates in relation to children, society and risk, childhood, children's rights, citizenship and social harm.
You will look at empirical and theoretical studies in these areas and understand the ways in which social policy, and criminal justics agencies, are adapting their responses to deal with crimes commited against children.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the different criminological, sociological and psychological appraoches to the study of terrorism.
You will gain an oversight of terrorism within the content of current policy and global governance, with specific reference to international law and human rights.
You will examine debates on the threats posed by terrorism, considering the emergence of the new terrorism in Britain.
In this module you will develop a knowledge of illicit drugs, their effects and how they have been used cross-culturally through time.
You will gain an insight into the sociological and psychological theories that seeks to explain addiction and problem drug use, with practical knowledge of how drug users and drug markets have been controlled through policy, enforcement and legislation.
This module will introduce you to sentencing, its key principles, and current issues, such as the need for a defensible penal policy, the effects of expansionism, the need for reductionism and the desire to abolish.
You gain an overview of the different types of sentences currently available, considering the potential for discrimination in sentencing, and the role of victims in the sentencing process.
You will look at penal policy and the current penal crisis, critically evaluating a particular area of sentencing and developing a policy paper to propose reform to the current penal policy.
In this module you will develop an understanding of terrorism on the global stage, examining different perspectives on its history and development, starting with the emergence of new terrorism in the post 9/11 era.
You will analyse global repsonses to terrorism, considering the differentiated impact of terrorism on a global scale, and the way in which fear of terrorism can be used as an instrument of political power by various state agencies.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the role, function and operation of prisons in England and Wales.
You will think critically about the nature of imprisonment and the effectiveness of the prison system, using research, government reports, prisoners' account and other relevant sources to analyse recent policy initiatives.
This module explores the current procedures in the UK surrounding the treatment of witnesses and victims of crime.
You will examine issues surrounding vulnerable people, children, adults, and older people with respect to the different professional responses required.
You will look at victims and witnesses in a historical context, identifying milestones that highlight key development.
You will consider the long term consequences of involvement in the legal system, and look at research on victims and witnesses from a wide range of disciplines.
Examine fictional representations of the girl across a range of texts, from Charlotte Brontë's eponymous Jane Eyre through to Antonia White's Catholic schoolgirl, Nanda and Ian McEwan's remorseful Briony Tallis.
As well as enabling an exploration of female development and subjectivity, you will also engage with a range of questions relating to sexuality and desire, place and belonging, knowledge and resistance, art and creativity.
The end of the various colonial empires in the middle of the twentieth century saw an explosion of literatures from the newly emergent postcolonial societies.
Rather than provide a survey of the field of postcolonial studies, this module aims at engaging the recent debates in postcolonial writing, theory and criticism.
You will critically examine a range of postcolonial novels from Britain’s erstwhile empire, paying attention to issues such as the boons and contradictions of writing in the language of the colonial powers, the postcolonial reclamation of the Western canon etc.
and focussing on genres such as postcolonial realism, modernism, magic realism, and science fiction.
You will pay close attention to novels and their historical legacies of colonialism and resistance.
In this module you will consider a range of contemporary and experimental poetic writing and consider writing practices in relation to contemporary theory and criticism.
You will look at the methods, processes and techniques used by experimental and innovative writers becoming familiar with a range of methodologies for making your own poetic practice.
Geoffrey Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales are among the greatest literary achievements of the middle Ages.
Chaucer describes a group of pilgrims, drawn from all parts of late medieval English society, who enter into a tale-telling competition on their way to Canterbury.
Their stories include romances, fabliaux, saints’ lives and beast fables, and address themes of love and sorrow, trickery and deception, fate and free will, satire, tragedy and magic, as well as raising questions about the nature and purposes of storytelling itself.
In this module you will read The Canterbury Tales in detail in the original Middle English.
You will examine how the tales relate to their literary and cultural contexts, and read them in the light of different schools of modern criticism.
You will also have the opportunity to read a range of earlier writers who influenced Chaucer, including Ovid, Boethius, Dante and Boccaccio, and later writers who responded to him, including Lydgate, Hoccleve and Dryden.
In this module you will study the complete career of Charles Dickens (1812-1870), looking at eight novels in their historical and cultural contexts.
You will examine Dickens's life and times, and the cultural discourses that shaped his fiction; the serialisation and illustration of his work, and the themes, forms and structures of his writing.
You will also consider the richness and specificity of Dickens' actual work.
A comprehensive study of three of Shakespeare's most difficult and most disturbing plays, collectively known as the ‘problem plays’: Troilus and Cressida, All’s Well That Ends Well and Measure for Measure.
You will develop a detailed knowledge and understanding of the plays, both as individual works of dramatic art and as a group of texts sharing distinctive concerns and techniques.
In this module you will develop an understanding of representations of the body in Renaissance Literature.
You will look at a broad range of canonical and non-canonical literature including medical, philosophical and theological texts.
You will learn to use diverse critical and theoretical approaches and consider topics including bodily metamorphosis, foreign bodies and gendered bodies.
You will examine poetry from writers such as John Donne and Philip Sidney and plays from writers such as William Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe and John Webster.
An advanced introduction to debates about the philosophy of literature.
This module is structured around three key questions: the ethics of literature, what literature is presumed to reveal and the relationship between literature and its interpretation.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the Anglo-Saxon riddling tradition.
You will look at a wide range of Exeter Book Riddles, learning to translate Old English Poetry into modern English.
You will consider techniques of textual analysis and personal judgement to form clearly expressed critical examinations of texts.
You will consider various perspectives on Anglo-Saxon culture and literature and analyse riddles on topics such as animals, religion, heroic life and runes.
Often described as the most difficult and influential poems of the twentieth-century, T.
S.
Eliot's "The Waste Land" is undoubtedly one of the key Modernist texts.
You will you look at Eliot's 1922 poem, along with a selection of his critical writings, engaging in an intensive reading experience in which you will examine ideas about composition, structure, voice, time, myth and intertextuality.
In this module you will study a broad range of writing for children from the nineteenth through to the twenty-first century.
This third year module considers ‘home’ as a key site in the contemporary world.
In this module you will enhance your ability to analyse and compare written material from different sources.
You will develop competence in accurate and discursive French, and extend your oral presentation skills, with particular emphasis on the formal spoken register.
You will look at extracts from French documentaries and feature films, and listen to recordings and podcasts, such as the France Inter and France Culture programmes.
You will also look at a range of cultural questions and examine the key features of French culture and society.
This module explores how French novels and films of different genres and decades reflect, perpetuate and challenge the effects of fast-developing consumer capitalism and globalization on conceptions of identity between writers and artists over a century of experimentation.
The module examines murder and political uses of violence in twentieth-century French literary works and films, considering how far they can be explained or ever judged to be legitimate.
The second half of the module studies some of the specific problems involved in understanding and representing the Holocaust.
In theory at least, early modern French theatre had little time for villains.
Genuine wickedness, vice and evil were regarded as too serious a subject matter for comedy, while theorists of tragedy insisted that a wicked character – whether ultimately defeated or triumphant – could not produce pity, one of the key tragic emotions.
And yet, as this module demonstrates, wicked and villainous characters recur throughout ‘classical’ French theatre.
Indeed, by refusing to present villainous characters who are simply outright monsters – a straightforward ‘other’ to the social and moral norm – playwrights sometimes suggest that the most troubling characters are those in whom we might recognise elements of ourselves.
In this module you’ll learn to understand natural, idiomatic spoken German as delivered by a native speaker or on radio/TV designed for native speakers.
You’ll learn to discuss German current affairs using a wide range of appropriate vocabulary and read and get to understand complex passages of authentic, elevated German, including literary, academic, journalistic and other types of texts and will finally be able to produce written translations in fluent, accurate and idiomatic English and German.
This module will explore the idea of the self as it is defined and expressed in literary works in German.
From Goethe's canonical Werther via Schnitzler, Hesse, Bachmann and Handke, right up to contemporary writings by Karen Duve and Birgit Vanderbeke, German literature is always bound up with notions of identity.
In this module we want to focus on German Romanticism's fascination with what was perceived as the "night side" of (human) nature.
In response to the Enlightenment's belief in rationality and objectivity Romantic writers tended to explore the more subjective and irrational aspects of life, like emotions and imagination, but also more unsettling psychological phenomena like dreams, hallucinations and mental illness.
This module will introduce you to one of the most crucial and controversial subjects in modern German history, society and culture.
You will study a broad range of examples of the visual representation of National Socialism as an ideology, a political movement and a 'national' phenomenon, from the 1930s to the present day.
You will think about the changing ways in which Germany has sought to deal with the legacy and memory of Hitler's regime.
In this module there is a close correlation between the material selected for use in the written and oral classes.
In the written class you’ll be asked to structure cohesive and informed written commentaries on set Italian texts as well as practise reading comprehension and paraphrasing skills.
You will be asked to prepare and deliver short oral presentations as well as debate issues related to Italian current affairs, and in grammar lectures, you’ll revise complex features and refine their use in context and complete a series of grammar exercises specifically devised for final year students.
Though considered for long less attractive than Inferno, Purgatorio and Paradiso are the two canticles where Dante's design of the afterlife comes to completion.
The Divine Comedy cannot be comprehended but through a close reading of the poem as a whole.
This module aims to explore Dante's full vision of the otherworld.
The module brings together the study of the topics of fascism, organised crime and post-war and contemporary terrorism in Italy through film narrative.
Students will be presented with the key ideological, social and political issues to be explored in films, that is, violence as a means to both assert and undermine State authority through dictatorial, criminal, and terroristic power.
Students will study films such as Bertolucci’s Il conformista (The Conformist,1970), Bellochio’s Buongiorno notte (Good Morning, Night, 2003), Giordana’s I cento passi (The Hundred Steps, 2000), Garrone’s Gomorra (2008), Sorrentino’s Il divo (2008).
This module is taught entirely in Spanish and provides a variety of formal grammar lectures, written and oral classes.
You’ll demonstrate lexical and grammatical competence in the four skills of speaking, listening, reading, and writing in Spanish and will learn to understand and communicate fluently in Spanish across a complete range of tenses.
You’ll participate in conversation with a native speaker and will learn awareness of key cultural aspects of the Hispanic world.
On this module students will learn how to identify some of the traits of contemporary Mexican cinema, a period of filmmaking which has been recognised as one of the most fruitful in cinematic history.
The films selected for analysis on this module will be examined within the context of contemporary Mexico: an era rife with socio-political unrest.
We will learn how political corruption, social violence and the recent Drug Wars have shaped the narratives of the films we will explore, and how these issues have dictated the emergence of new filmic genres.
Students will learn about how youth culture and its manifestations are explored in film and will be able to place the films studied in their socio-historic contexts.
On this module students will explore the horror genre by exploring a broad range of films made in Spain and Latin America.
Following an introduction to horror filmmaking, we will analyse texts in relation to horror’s numerous subgenres (gothic, physiological, psychological, science fiction, zombie etc.) and will learn both how to identify different types of horror film as well as to situate them in the history of horror filmmaking.
The module examines in depth, and in relation to each other, artistic and literary movements prevalent in late-nineteenth and early-twentieth-century Italy and France.
On this module you will analyse the contribution of the Decadentists and Symbolists, Futurists and Cubists to a variety of artistic disciplines in France, Italy and Europe.
This module explores cinematic representations of the transnational encounter between people, cultures and institutions interconnected by the forces of globalization.
The topics covered range from (anti-)colonialism and revolution to neo-colonialism, postcoloniality and migration.
Attention is paid to the ways in which the films deal with the themes of emancipation, hybridity, displacement, global capitalism and politics, and cosmopolitanism.
The module covers the development of transnational cinema from its origins with Third Cinema and then goes on to explore postcolonial and migration cinema covering areas ranging from South America and Africa to Europe.
In this module, we will examine representations of human and animal life in twenty-first century fiction and thought.
We will consider the ways in which the human-animal relation informs ideas of human identity, and explore the different literary techniques employed to represent animal life.
We will ask questions such as: what does it mean to be human?
What is the difference between animals and humans?
And how can we understand and represent animal experience?
In this module you will develop an understanding of how prime numbers are the building blocks of the integers 0, ±1, ±2, … You will look at how simple equations using integers can be solved, and examine whether a number like 2017 should be written as a sum of two integer squares.
You will also see how Number Theory can be used in other areas such as Cryptography, Computer Science and Field Theory.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how error correcting codes are used to store and transmit information in technologies such as DVDs, telecommunication networks and digital television.
You will look at the methods of elementary enumeration, linear algebra and finite fields, and consider the main coding theory problem.
You will see how error correcting codes can be used to reconstruct the original information even if it has been altered or degraded.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how the destruction of European Jewry by the Nazis between 1933 and 1945 has been represented and responded to across a range of both fictional and non-fictional media.
You will look at the specific theoretical debates surrounding how the Holocaust can or should (or should not) be represented in art and popular culture.
You will consider the role of mass media in constructing both popular and elite relationships to historical experience, and in documenting history.
This advanced course option offers topical treatments of aspects of cognitive and social development (infancy to adolescence) not otherwise covered in introductory developmental psychology courses.
One overarching theme is cognitive development, particularly abstract or symbolic thinking, including object representation, language, drawing, and pretend play.
Other cognitive topics include autobiographical memory development and executive functioning development.
Another overarching theme focuses on the social contexts of development, including how children negotiate their relationships with peers, how values develop in childhood and adolescence, and what neuroscience can tell us about social cognition in adolescence.
This module develops understanding of how to identify research papers relevant to a health psychology topic, techniques to summarise and evaluate published evidence, relating to a health psychology, how to apply health psychology theory to a practical problem and how to describe and think critically about a number of health psychology theories, models and concepts.
This module includes lectures and readings covering classical and contemporary approaches in educational psychology.
These may include work on gender and diversity in education, learning and classroom interaction, intelligence and motivation, learning disorders and special educational needs, assessment, attainment, socio-emotional approaches to development and learning, psychological perspectives on education at different levels/ages.
Employers increasingly seek to recruit people who are able to respond quickly and effectively to shifting business needs and market conditions, an ability that studying Liberal Arts can give you.
Studying a wide range of areas at a high level demonstrates that you can be adaptable and flexible, in addition to equipping you with the creative, critical and analytical skills you would expect to gain from studying at a world-class university.
You will develop an invaluable set of transferable skills, expert knowledge in a diverse range of fields, a broad contextual and international awareness, an understanding of the methods available both for tackling challenges in the workplace and communicating with different people in different ways.
On graduation you will be ready to pursue a career in a wide range if areas.
Our award-winning careers service is there to guide you along the way so that you can identify the career path that will match your specific strengths and interests.
Our careers advisors will also provide you with tailored support to achieve your goals.
Source: National Student Survey, 2023

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/media-arts/digital-media-culture-and-technology-ba:
Digital Media Culture and Technology BA
UCAS code: P300
Digital Media Culture and Technology BSc
UCAS code: P304
The BA Digital Media Culture and Technology blends creative practice, technical skills, and media theory at Royal Holloway's Media Arts department.
You can learn to code, create websites, apps, games, 3D models, digital narratives, and work with AI.
All while exploring the social, cultural, political, ethical, and other implications of digital technologies.
This degree will ensure you can navigate a fast changing technological world, while providing essential skills to shape what happens next.
Worlds of social media, gaming, media streaming, digital art, big data, and government are shaped by computer networks, algorithms, artificial intelligence, and technological standards are all driving a technological revolution while redefining what it means to be human.
This degree helps you to excel in digital production within a broad range of industries, across a fast changing technological domain.
Our graduates have gone on to work with Google, TikTok, and BBC Radio 1, the Labour Party, Joe Media, Capgemini, KPMG, and social media fame.
As a member of our academic community, you can use our vast network of connections after you leave.
Also, our emphasis on project-based learning means you will make connections with many other students.
The possibilities for graduates of DMCT are vast.
The UK's creative industries are its fastest-growing economic sector with an annual economic contribution of £124.6bn, according to official UK government figures.
By 2030, this industry is estimated to grow by 50% and add a million new jobs.
This degree will prepare you for an exciting new career in that lucrative world.
We offer a wide range of core and optional modules to tailor your degree to your interests.
In the first year, you'll study the history of digital media, creative coding, web and game design, and media theory.
In the second year, you'll work on a data visualisation project, explore narrative structures in screen-based media, produce a three-day digital festival, and learn about digital aesthetics and software politics.
In the third year, you will be supported to produce an advanced digital media project or dissertation, with optional modules that expand possibilities for your career.
The module introduces students to coding and the creation of artistic and experimental digital projects.
The first part of the course involves analysis and critique of existing projects and practices.
Under the umbrella of creative code and digital art, students create an online digital media project, learning all the stages from design to delivery, while acquiring advanced coding skills that will enable them to create ambitious and innovative practice work in years two and three.
In this module you will develop an understanding of digital narratives and cultures with an emphasis on audiovisual storytelling.
You will learn skills in the creative practice of audiovisual media for digital platforms, producing a three to five minute short film.
You will work iteratively and gain weekly feedback on your ideas and work-in-progress.
You will learn how to shoot stories on mobile phones and lightweight cameras, how to edit these on Final Cut Pro, and key sound design skills.
In this module you will develop an understanding of interactive digital projects and reflect on them in the context of digital media culture, history and theory.
You will develop the ability to work iteratively between coding and critical understanding of digital culture.
Lectures and practical sessions will revolve around key concepts and practices to obtain a sound understanding of the basics of digital media culture and technology.
These companion modules (Introduction to Media Histories 1 and Introduction to Media Histories 2) introduce students to media histories encompassing complementary accounts of film, television, video games, computing, the internet, and social media
In this module you will learn the theoretical and practical skills to create content for a range of digital and social media, combining the ability to respond to a series of briefs with skills in working as a team to execute an online media project.
You will be required to reflect on, and offer a critical analysis of the project and your own contribution to it.
You will produce a social/digital media campaign demonstrating an awareness of the aesthetic cultural and practical possibilities of non-linear narrative forms.
You will examine the digital culture and consider the socio-economic, cultural and regulatory forces that shape online experiences.
This module explores the aesthetics, function, and politics of ‘data’ as used in news media through the development of an original creative data journalism and visualisation project.
During the early phase of the module, you will develop an understanding of selected key figures and projects in the practice and theory of information visualisation, and their respective relationships with their social, cultural, and political contexts.
You will also examine contemporary data journalism and related artworks, learning about the frameworks and tools used in their prototyping and developmental processes, and present examples for discussion in class.
The second phase of the module focuses closely on the initial design, prototyping, and development of an original web-based data journalism project, organised around a series of technical workshops in mapping, moving image, text, and interactive graphics tools.
You will draw on a combination of the coding, design, and presentation skills attained earlier in your studies, while learning new processes and more advanced techniques for information visualisation, with a particular focus on how to publish projects online.
This module aims to give you as real an understanding and experience of working in the digital industries as is possible within the context of a university.
This module will help you to gain an understanding of digital business modelling; from both a value building perspective, and also a relationship building perspective which is vital to your ongoing success.
A dissertation can be a sustained piece of writing about a single subject, person, theoretical field, or group of texts The dissertation is based primarily on students’ own course of independent study so will be a product of negotiation between the student and supervisor and will depend on the topic of research.
In this module you will design, develop and execute a substantial original piece of digital media, combining still and moving image, sound, text and code.
You will prepare and write a project proposal and budget and present your ideas in public.
You will reflect on and critically analyse your work, showing an advanced understanding of the aesthetic ethical and technical issues involved in digital and social media.
Here it is your chance to pursue your own passions and our students produce everything from digital magazines, interactive films, 2D and 3D animations, music videos, interactive and immersive websites, digital art installations and curations and augmented and virtual reality.
This module will examine, through the employment of practical methodologies, the work of significant avant-garde sound/noise practitioners throughout the 20th century analogue and digital eras.
It will examine the relationship between significant artworks and the technology of the era.
For example, in the acoustic era of music capture, before the electrification of the signal in 1925 that allowed electro-magnetic microphones and soundboard input mixing, the capture of sound was facilitated through a static condensing horn.
In order to create a mix balance, the musicians would physically move closer or further away from the horn.
We call this kinetic mixing.
One of the first exercises will be to recreate this process and then develop the concept digitally, within an installation paradigm, employing a multichannel sound source and a range of Bluetooth speakers, allowing the different sounds to be physically moved within a defined space – 21st Century kinetic mixing.
You will learn through a mix of lectures, seminars, small-group tutorials, screenings, and workshops.
You will also get the opportunity to explore live media practice.
This includes work in London.
It also includes the use of our Virtual Production Volumetric Wall and many Computer labs.
You will also do group work and guided research and study.
Private study and prep are key to your success.
Through our world-class library, you will have access to many online resources and our e-learning site platforms.
You will also be assigned a personal tutor to support you throughout your studies.
DMCT doesn't assess using exams.
Assessment is dynamic and innovative.
It tests your creative and critical skills across various platforms.
These include blogging, short films, programming, PR tasks, and responding to live briefs.
It also covers traditional assignments.
These include essays, scripts, production papers, coursework, and a practical portfolio.
Beyond curriculum tasks, you have full access to use our facilities 24/7 allowing you to build your creative portfolio for the future.
Required subjects: At least five GCSE passes at grade A*-C or 9-4, including English and Mathematics.
By the time you graduate you will be able to walk into an interview with a thorough grounding in the history and theory of digital media – invaluable for companies who look ahead to future trends – along with expertise in programming, analytics and data visualisation.
You will also have a portfolio of creative work and transferrable skills such as written communication, presentation, time management, teamwork, research, problem solving, critical analysis and advanced IT skills.
Throughout your studies you will hear from practising professionals in lectures, and to have the opportunity to make connections through our staff and alumni industry networks.
We also run a micro work placement scheme, where you can gain first-hand experience in the world of work and learn about what employers are looking for, before you apply for a job.
Open doors to a wide range of exciting job opportunities in digital media and the creative industries more broadly.
Graduates from our Media Arts department can be found in almost every area of the media industries, from TV production to directing, writing, shooting and starring in films, software engineering, PR and brand management, through to games development and web design.
With a BA degree you will be particularly well prepared for more creative career paths.
Source: Complete University Guide, 2025

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/politics-and-international-relations/politics-and-international-relations:
UCAS code: L290
BA Politics and International Relations looks at political ideas and processes, as well as global issues such as war and security, diplomacy and development.
You will gain a solid foundation in politics, the history of international relations and IR theory, studying subjects such as democracy, decolonisation, democratisation, international organisations, foreign-policy making, human migration and human rights.
As you progress through the degree, the flexible nature of the course allows you to specialise in those aspects of domestic politics, political theory and international relations that most interest you.
By combining Politics and International Relations, you will gain an advanced understanding of how individuals, groups and states interact across borders, and how political institutions and ideas differ around the world.
As you progress through your studies, you will engage with important contemporary challenges, including, for example, the recent global economic crisis, changes in the European Union, human migration and the threats posed by terrorists and new communications technologies.
The Department of Politics and International Relations has a strong commitment to high-quality, cutting-edge research, all of which informs our teaching.
We are a research community that applies various theories and methods to the study of domestic, transnational, regional and global politics.
We have expertise in African, British, Chinese, European, Middle East, North American and South Asian politics, and our research covers areas such as security, democratisation, youth politics, international diplomacy and political communication, as well as contemporary and radical theories of democracy and power.
This module will introduce you to the academic study of politics and to the ‘real world’ of contemporary politics.
As a foundational course, it will give you all the essential tools to understand the nature of politics and analyse the way different political systems work.
You will be introduced to key concepts such as politics, power, rights, ideologies, democracy and representation, and will learn about the different actors, institutions and processes that make up politics today.
This module offers a broad introduction to theory and history in international relations since 1870.
You will look at a variety of different theoretical lenses, ranging from orthodox to critical perspectives, in order to understand events from the collapse of the Bismarckian European order and the origins of World War 1 to the contemporary War on Terror.
Along the way you will also explore the origins and the end of the Cold War, decolonisation and the End of Empire, the rise of international institutions, humanitarian intervention and new security issues.
This module will provide you with the analytic skills and resources to evaluate, understand, and criticise research findings in politics research.
It will also provide you with the practical skills to carry out your own independent research so that you can produce a high-quality dissertation in your final year and graduate with transferable skills that will prepare you for the job market.
The module aims to encourage a critical and rigorous approach to research, both in terms of how you evaluate the research of others and how you do your own.
These twin goals are important for getting the most out of your time studying politics.
Building on Introduction to International Relations, this module explores the key thinkers and debates in International Relations Theory.
You will become familiar with a variety of ways of thinking about International Relations, engaging with questions about the nature of power, identity, and ethics in politics and how these interact in the international realm.
The module is divided into two parts.
In the first, you will examine the three foundational theoretical paradigms within International Relations – realism, liberalism, and Marxism.
The second part explores newer critical approaches to International Relations theory, including constructivism, post-structuralism, feminism, and uneven ecological exchange.
The dissertation offers you the opportunity to pursue independent research in a topic of your own choosing with the support of an academic supervisor working one-to-one with you.
You will develop your own research question and research strategy, explore the scholarly debates surrounding your topic, and advance your own thesis that interprets or challenges the way your topic has been understood.
You are encouraged to use a variety of quantitative or qualitative methods and theoretical approaches as appropriate to the field you are exploring.
This module introduces institutions and politics of the United States.
It offers a thorough grounding in the empirical and theoretical literature on American politics.
The module covers the Constitution, Congress, the Presidency and federal bureaucracy, separation of powers, federalism and state governments, the Supreme Court, elections, political parties, the media, and interest groups.
By the end of the module, you’ll be prepared to engage knowledgeably with American political news and to tackle advanced modules in American Political Development and/or US Foreign Policy.
This is a good all-round introduction to one of the world’s most influential democracies.
This module is a key bridge between the first year modules in comparative politics and international relations and the third year modules in the politics of Africa, China, Latin America, the Middle East, and South Asia.
It is designed to equip you with a critical understanding of the most important features of the history of international development which build the foundations of our modern world: the transition from empires to states, colonialism, de-colonisation, and the subsequent post-colonial political issues facing the Global South.
This means you don’t necessarily learn about politics “outside the West”, as if it’s a phenomenon separate from the West, but, instead, develop ideas of politics and international relations from the vantage point of the Global South, including its prominent political thinkers.
This module analyses the contemporary history, politics, and theory of the European Union and its institutions, amid the challenges of the quadruple crisis of economics, migration, Brexit, and the Covid pandemic.
The first term will begin with an introduction to the European Union as a political system followed by an overview of the European Union's historical development and political institutions (executive, legislative and judicial).
The second term will focus on how the EU developed and the challenges that it faces.
In this module you will develop an understanding of regulation in the European Union, including delivery of policy and administration.
You will look at how the world's largest market operates, with a focus on EU public policy, including de-regulation, re-regulation, budgets and spending.
You will examine the concept of the single market, the Euro and its crisis, justice, home affairs and counter-terrorism, the EU budget, agriculture, regional development, and social and environmental policies.
In this module you will combine participation in a workplace environment for one day a week during term time (and three days a week for each term's reading week) with scholarly reflection on the nature of the organisational, professional, and policy contexts of the placement.
Your placement will be in an organised setting such as Parliament, local government, the office of an MEP, NGO, campaigning or activist organisations, a political party, a media organisation, or the policy or communications division of a local company working in a relevant field.
Party leaders, and their public image, are increasingly considered important for a party’s electoral success, for the smooth running of government and for regime legitimacy.
Perhaps the most important variable for successful politicians is their ability to effectively communicate and connect with their audiences.
This module will first, show you the techniques most frequently used my politicians, communicators and speechwriters to effectively deliver their messages in different contexts and settings.
Next, you will analyse how these techniques have been used by the greatest leaders in the word to justify their regimes.
By the end of the module you will be able to evaluate leadership styles during and after elections and design communication strategies that will deliver political messages effectively.
The politics of South Asia – India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh - are central to understanding some of the themes at the core of modern politics: poverty and development, security and warfare, migration and transnationalism, decolonisation and postcolonialism, the international economy and globalisation.
This module deals with the social and political development of these countries since independence from British rule in 1947.
We will analyse issues including caste politics, the role of religious violence and the place of women in politics and society.
Sources will come from a range of disciplines – politics and IR, history, sociology, anthropology, novels and films.
We will study regional cooperation and conflict including the troubled relationship between India and Pakistan over Kashmir and their nuclear status.
By the end of the module you will have a specialised understanding of the major social, economic and political developments in the region.
This module examines the contemporary literature on gender and politics, with a particular focus on women’s participation and representation in British politics.
It introduces you to feminist theories of representation, debates over women’s interests, and feminist institutionalism.
It applies these frameworks to consider why the number of women in our parliaments might matter and what difference – symbolic, substantive and affective – sex and gender make to elected political institutions, the policy process, political outcomes, and healthy democracies.
This final-year half module offers students the opportunity to obtain an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the British parliament and its place in British democracy.
It will help you to evaluate the work and role of Parliament and parliamentarians, appreciate ongoing debates about contemporary legislative practice, and engage critically with previous academic scholarship in this area.
It will also help you to develop you own awareness and experience of conducting research.
Issues of free speech are amongst the most contentious in current political debate.
The module aims to give you an in depth understanding of the nature, value and limits of freedom of speech, from the perspective of normative political theory.
It is not a course in the law of free speech, nor about the free speech situation in any particular country.
Though the module touches on both the latter, the aim instead, is to enable you to understand the values, norms and principles at issue in contexts where free speech is promoted, regulated, limited or denied- especially contexts where that choice is contentious.
You will be encouraged to look beyond the headlines to explore the rich and varied academic scholarship on free speech, and to offer critical analyses of that scholarship.
By the end of the module, you should be able to interrogate your own and others’ intuitive reactions in controversial cases of e.g.
hate speech, and to develop a reasoned, nuanced approach to these issues.
This module is designed to introduce advanced undergraduates to the major themes of contemporary Latin American politics and, consequently, democracy and political development.
Although the module does not assume that you already have knowledge of the region, you are expected to be familiar with basic concepts of comparative political analysis.
While the module stresses the political aspects of the developmental process, its objective is to show the linkages between economic, social, cultural, and political variables--both at national and international levels.
This module examines both the domestic and international politics of the environment.
The first part of the module consists of defining the environmental problems faced globally, highlighting similarities and differences to other issues.
This part also identifies the key actors, interests, and institutions that are necessary to understand the politics of climate change.
The second part of the module focuses on three varieties of theories of environmental politics: collective action problems, distributional politics, and ideational conflict.
The third part then examines a variety of topics in environmental politics, building upon the analytical approaches outlined in the first two parts of the course.
The chosen topics allow for both understanding how politics shapes environmental outcomes, for example through international agreements, as well as how climate change and the environment affects political outcomes, for example by fostering political conflict.
The course has a modular structure: you will take 12 course units altogether at the rate of four per year.
Some course units are compulsory while others are elective thereby offering flexibility and choice.
The second year and final year marks do count, with more importance attached to the final year marks in order to reward progress and achievement.
Our degree courses not only promote academic achievement and employability.
You will learn to approach problems in a rigorous and analytical way, and you will develop your abilities to communicate in both speech and writing.
Graduates from our department work in a range of careers including public affairs, political organisations, journalism, international law and charities.
Roles include Ministry of Justice Fast Stream, political analyst at merchant banks, Foreign Office Fast Stream and graduate entry into a wide array of large companies.
Many of our graduates also go on to further study, entering postgraduate courses both at Royal Holloway and at other prestigious institutions around the world.
Employers include The House of Commons, Unilever, Ministry of Defence, Amazon Nestle, Ipsos MORI and MPs’ offices.
Source: THE, REF Institutions ranked by subject, 2022

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/psychology/psychology:
UCAS code: C800
Psychology is the study of how people think, react and interact.
It is concerned with all aspects of behaviour and the thoughts, feelings and motivations that underlie such behaviour.
It is an important subject because it relates to the whole range of human experience, from visual perception to complex social interactions.
Study psychology at Royal Holloway University of London and you’ll develop a thorough understanding of theories and approaches to the understanding of human behaviour across different core areas of Psychology, without limiting study to any specific area.
Join our three-year course and you will be able to customise your learning in your final year, selecting from a number of optional modules including Consciousness & Cognition, Human Neuropsychology and Criminal and Forensic Psychology.
You’ll study in a department ranked 3rd in the UK for research (THE, REF Institutions ranked by subject, 2022), learning with academics who are experts in their fields, and contributing your own findings to this leading research culture with a final year research project.
Royal Holloway's Department of Psychology is among the best-equipped psychology departments in the country where post- and undergraduates may benefit from the department's advanced technology.
This includes an on-site magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner for studying brain structure and activity, instruments for recording electrical changes in the brain (EEG) and other cutting-edge facilities to augment your learning.
Follow your passion for psychology, clinical psychology and mental health and you’ll graduate with excellent employability prospects in a variety of different fields.
Notable alumni include the leading bioscience innovator Professor Jackie Hunter CBE, founder of the Terrence Higgins Trust Dr Rupert Whitaker, and Dr Christian Jarrett – author of The Rough Guide to Psychology.
This module provides an introduction to core aspects of psychological research.
This includes how to find and read psychological papers, and thinking critically about research.
General aspects of research covered include ethics in psychological research, designs and variables in research, reliability and validity, designing psychological research studies (correlational and experimental), and qualitative methods.
Students are introduced to different types of data and distributions, and to describing data.
In addition, the use of statistical tests in psychological research and how to choose the right test are introduced.
Statistics covered may include inferential statistics, chi-squared test, independent and repeated t test, one-way independent ANOVA, correlation, linear regression, and non-parametric statistics.
This course encompasses a Psychology Toolkit component; teaching sessions combined with self-study for the preparation of a portfolio.
This course aims to introduce students to the basics of personality and social psychology.
The course will start with an introduction to key dynamic personality theories of Freud, followed by Jung.
Students will then learn about theories and research on agreession, pro-social behaviour and conformity.
In addition, key fundamental topics in social psychology, attitudes and values, will be introduced, as well as cross-cultural psychology and leadership.
The aim of this module is to give students the core skills and knowledge needed to be successful as an academic psychologist.
The module is divided into three components.
First, students will develop a strong understanding of the academic skills needed within undergraduate studies for psychology, including finding and reading research journal articles, thinking critically, and writing about psychology.
Second, they will be introduced to the typical career paths for psychology graduates, and they will be introduced to resources to allow them to develop their employability through their degree.
Third, they will learn about the conceptual and historical issues underpinning current psychological research.
This module will provide an introduction to the key theories and research findings regarding Perception and Cognition.
This may include topics within perception such as sensory perception as gateway to the world; attentional modulation of perception; illusions as key to reality, brightness, perception of colour, time, motion and depth; auditory perception, touch, taste and smell; the control of eye and head movements as a link between perception and action; and memory processes (both experimental and applied).
The module provides an introduction to the key neuroscience cencepts and research techniques relevant to Psychology.
Topics include the basics of neural function, neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, sensorimotor processing, and research methods used.
In this module you will learn about how to use SPSS to analyse, interpret and graph data, one way ANOVA (independent and repeated), factorial ANOVA (independent, repeated and mixed), ANCOVA, complex correlations, linear regression (multiple, categorical predictors, stepwise and hierarchical), logistic regression and factor analysis.
You will also study research methods topics including advanced experimental design (factorial and quasi-experimental designs), questionnaire design and validation, and qualitative analyses.
This module will provide you with an overview of the key theoretical and empirical issues in cognitive psychology, including selective attention, multisensory perception and problem solving.
You will look at reasoning, judgement and blindsight, and examine the impact of unilateral neglect and attention for action.
In this module you will examine theory and research in key areas of personality and individual differences.
You will explore the difference between these two areas of study, and become equipped with methods of evaluating theories of personality.
You will review key topics in personality and individual differences, with consideration for the relations between them in order to develop your integrative understanding of personality.
In this module you will develop an understanding of why modern psychology requires an understanding of neuroscience.
You will look at neuronal structure, function and information transmission, and the organisation of the nervous system and how this reflects the principles of information processing.
You will examine the methods used to study structure and information processing in the brain, becoming familiar with the brain's functional architectures and the neural basis of learning.
You will also consider brain evolution, and the biology and psychopharmacology of reward, reinforcement and psychological disorders.
In this module, you will carry out a piece of research as part of a small group, closely supervised by a member of academic staff.
You will develop teamwork, presentation and analytical skills, and produce a substantial, independently written, report of your study.
In this module students will attend four workshops that will allow them to explore four different areas of employability that psychology graduates typically enter: Mental health (clinical psychology, health psychology, forensic psychology, etc.), Education (teaching, educational psychologist, etc.), Research (PhD, research associate, market research, etc.), and Careers beyond psychology (finance, HR, graduate schemes).
This module provides an overview to some of the ways in which applied and developmental perspectives in Psychology can be used to improve society.
Students will obtain an appreciation regarding some of the conceptual issues regarding applied psychology, as well as an introduction to various ways that these perspectives can apply to societal issues/advancements.
This module provides an overview to some of the ways in which clinical and neuroscientific perspectives in Psychology can be used to improve society.
Students will obtain an appreciation regarding some of the conceptual issues regarding clinical and neuroscience ethics, as well as an introduction to various ways that these perspectives can apply to societal issues/advancements.
To provide a good understanding of communication, the skill that is the basis of social interaction, and that is argued to have allowed humans to create culture and advanced technology.
The module will cover all aspects of communication – from understanding why language exists at all and how it influences our thoughts and behaviour, to understanding how we communicate with others, and what can go wrong.
This module will provide the basis for understanding the importance of communication in society as a first step for understanding how to evaluate it, exploit it, and improve it.
Theory, practice, and application of main methods used to study human brain function and behaviour in cognitive neuroscience, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), electro- and magnetoencelography (EEG/MEG), trans-cranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), and behavioural techniques (psychophysics).
This module provides an introduction to developmental neurobiology, cognitive and perceptual development and the cognitive and neural bases of Dementia.
Topics will include Normal and Abnormal brain development, Alzheimer's Disease, cognitive ageing and lifespan influence on ageing.
The course develops an understanding of brain development across the life span, an understanding of developmental disease processes, and learning the relation between brain and cognitive development.
This advanced-level social psychology module explores the application of social psychology to a range of real-world issues, including driver behaviour, persuasion and propaganda, religiosity, cyber-behaviour and the effects of media violence and pornography.
Key theoretical themes drawn upon are attitudes, group behaviour and identity, and some topics are addressed using a multi-disciplinary approach encompassing anthropology, political science and sociology, as well as social psychology.
This module provides an overview of the historical context, models and classifications within psychopathology, followed by 8 lectures specific to adult psychopathological issues, e.g.
psychosis, eating disorders, anxiety disorders, and others.
The final lecture will provide a summary and revision with the assistance from a MC quiz.
This module builds on knowledge from previous courses to develop an advanced understanding of current issues in Cognitive Neuroscience, to understand the mechanisms of brain damage, recovery and techniques employed in rehabilitation, and to develop a comprehensive understanding of specific specialist topics in clinical and cognitive neuroscience.
Cognitive Neuroscience component: Controversies in Cognitive Neuroscience, The Human Brain: Understanding structure in the context of disorders, Primate Association Cortex: Rules and Decisions, The Social Brain, Neuroscience and the illusion of free will.
Clinical Neuroscience component: Mechanisms of brain damage (neurodegenerative diseases and acute brain injury), mechanisms of recovery from brain damage (brain plasticity), Rehabilitation (Using neural transplants to repair brain damage, brain- machine interfaces)
The course provides an introduction to key concepts and research techniques relevant to Occupational and Organizational Psychology.
Topics include personnel selection and assessment, employee motivation, and workplace affairs.
This course uses the neuroconstructivist framework to study disorders of known genetic origin (Down syndrome, Fragile X, William syndrome) and multifactorial disorders such as ADHD, autism spectrum conditions, reading disorders, and specific language impairment.
Core features of each disorder and methods for assessment and diagnosis are described.
There is an emphasis on cross-syndrome comparisons and understanding the contributions of genes and environment to the wide variation in behavioural and cognitive profiles in different clinical conditions.
This course gives an overview of the contributions from applied cognitive, social, forensic psychology and criminal psychology to the understanding of witness and criminal behaviour.
It examines the evidence from child witnesses and impact of crime on victims of sexual offences and provides an understanding of the implications of forensic psychology in the justice system.
You will be expected to demonstrate awareness of current theories and research related to witness and criminal behaviour.
You will discuss issues related to the current state of knowledge on criminal behaviour and be critical about current incidents, research and media influences.
Finally you will appreciate the contribution of psychological research in investigation of witness evidence and detection of crime within the Criminal Justice System.
The social environment in which we live and the emotions we experience make us who we are.
Our brains make this happen at multiple levels: From individual neurons, brain regions, brain networks to whole bodies.
How do these levels implement such complex tasks as learning to trust, collaborate and bond with other people in societies?
This module addresses that question by bringing together diverse fields within psychology and neuroscience.
We will draw upon state of the art research across a range of topics, for example the neuroscience of speech and language, visual, vestibular and interoceptive perception of bodily actions and personal space in ourselves and others, value-based and economic decision making and pair bonding in animals and humans.
In addition to learning about the feats our brains can perform, we will also discuss when they fail e.g., why we make bad decisions or experience social and emotional pathology.
We will cover a variety of methods from behavioural measurement, computational modelling, research in animal models and brain imaging.
The main focus of the module is to familiarise students with a range of software (e.g.
R and Matlab) and quantitative techniques that are commonly used in psychology and behavioural neuroscience.
The emphasis of the module is not on a deep understanding of mathematical principles but rather of how and when such techniques might be appropriate in real-world settings (e.g.
market research, predicting consumption patterns).
As such, the module is designed to introduce students to how and when these techniques might be applied in a range of software platforms that are commonly used in the private and public sector, as well as in academic research environments.
Why are we here?
How should we live our lives?
What happens after we die?
These are all uniquely human questions brought about by our amazing capacity for self-awareness.
To fully appreciate and understand human behaviour, we must first start to ask the questions about what strikes at the heart of the human condition.
This module aims to encapsulate some issues that are thought to be at the essence of being human.
The quest for love, our need for meaning, and the terror of death.
Each lecture provides an overview to some of the ways that these basic aspects of the human psyche plays out in our lives, ranging from clinical/health (e.g., risky behaviours, depression, grief), social (e.g., prejudice, interpersonal relationships, identity) to environmental (e.g., climate change).
This module aims to equip students with a thorough understanding of the causes and consequences of brain damage in humans.
The course covers how the study of individuals with brain damage can lead to a better understanding of human brain function and develops knowledge on the core ideas of recovery and neuro-rehabilitation.
This course will introduce students to advanced statistical techniques, building upon the statistics knowledge gained from year one and year two modules.
The aim is that throughout the course students will gain an understanding about how advanced statistical techniques can address more complex research questions.
In building on previous knowledge this course will explore 3 way ANOVA (where you have three independent variables), MANOVA (where you have more than one dependent variable), Signal Detection Theory, dummy variables and interactive predictors in regression, structural equation modelling and more.
This module has been designed to raise awareness of EDI and aims to explore factors such as gender, racism, discrimination, poverty, social class, disability and sexuality and the implications of these concepts for education, workplace and physical and mental health.
This module will take an in-depth view into how characteristics of EDI can lead to exclusion through behaviour that is driven by implicit norms and address the importance of acknowledging and tackling unconscious bias.
Each lecture explores the importance of intersectionality and provides an overview of the key issues involved in barriers and access to equality of access, provision and learning.
The aim of this module is to produce a substantial piece of original written work exploring a topic of the student’s own interest in an in-depth, advanced level extended essay prepared under the guidance of a supervisor.
This module introduces user-centred design aspects and challenges in interactive traditional, augmented and virtual reality contexts, and addresses the approaches that can be used to create displays and interfaces to enhance user experience.
These might include an essay about a controversial issue, an analysis of a video, a report of an experiment or a recently published research article.
Some modules involve oral presentations.
Assessment is both summative (e.g.
through exams and dissertations) and formative (e.g.
essays which provide ongoing assessment and feedback), and the department has a tailor-made system of online feedback to provide detailed comments on essays and other coursework.
Many modules also have a written examination in May or June.
Progression to the next year is dependent on passing the core modules.
In combination, the quality and range of assessments will help you to develop a wide portfolio of skills and achieve high grades.
Psychology graduates from Royal Holloway University of London are well placed for excellent employability prospects in a range of fields.
You’ll gain a range of transferable skills that will make you highly attractive to potential employers, including advanced literacy and numeracy skills, critical reading, report writing, survey research, experimentation and the ability to use statistical methods to assess research findings.
Our BSc Psychology will also prepare you to progress to the department’s postgraduate courses.
We have excellent connections with a wide range of organisations, helping to create rewarding placement opportunities, and also maintain strong links with our graduate network so you can benefit from the skills and experiences of alumni.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £28,500
On successful completion of this programme you may be eligible for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society (Graduate Basis).
Source: National Student Survey, 2024
Source: (THE, REF Institutions ranked by subject, 2022)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/business-and-management/ai-for-business-msc:
AI for Business
Please click here to login and apply, or view your application.
Need help?
Explore our How to Apply Page
For more details, click here .
MSc
Duration: 1 year full time
UK fees * : £16,100
International/EU fees ** : £28,300
AI for Business is an exciting course at Royal Holloway.
It is aimed at recent graduates, from any discipline, seeking to boost their knowledge and understanding of artificial intelligence in the context of business, as well as professionals wanting to update their workplace knowledge and skills.
The course focuses on insight into generative artificial intelligence and emerging technologies like data analytics and virtual reality whilst developing the knowledge and skills required to manage and evaluate their business impact.
The course  will equip you with an in-depth understanding of how to integrate transformative AI solutions in organisations whilst being able to analyse its capabilities and limitations.
A key feature of the course is the development of practical knowledge through an independent consultancy project where you will integrate knowledge acquired throughout your course.
On graduating you will have the ability to analyse AI-related business opportunities and challenges and make well-informed tactical and strategic decisions, critically analyse AI's capabilities and limitations, assess its social and ethical implications, and develop the capabilities required to implement transformative AI solutions in organisations.
You will be confident in proposing and evaluating solutions to business problems by using AI knowledge and analytical skills and be able to effectively communicate complex business information to both professional and non-specialist audiences.
As a student in the School of Business and Management you will join an intellectually stimulating, friendly and supportive research environment and, through working closely with our expert and experienced academic staff, you will be in a position to realise your full potential.
This module is designed to equip students with the necessary knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience to effectively leverage artificial intelligence (AI) technologies in various business functions and industries.
The module aims to enhance your employability by providing you with the ability to critically evaluate, propose, and implement AI-driven solutions to address complex digital business challenges.
You’ll learn to explain key AI concepts, propose and evaluate AI-driven solutions and governance frameworks, and critically assess their risks and benefits across business functions.
This module equips students with the knowledge and skills to make informed decisions and develop effective strategies for adapting changes because of AI’s transformative impact on the workforce and the evolving landscape of work and job roles.
You’ll develop a deep understanding of how AI technologies are reshaping professions, from automation potential to the emergence of new job functions.
You’ll explore leadership strategies for managing AI-integrated teams and will propose innovative AI-supported solutions for remote work and virtual collaboration, thereby becoming a strategic asset for future employers in evolving work environments.
This module aims to develop an understanding of the principles and practices of gathering data and using it to visualise strategic and operational business intelligence solutions.
You will look at the key channels and sources that may be used to gather information, examining how to interpret and prepare data for organisational use and explore how it can be used to promote diversity and inclusivity.
You will learn how to visualise patterns and trends for decision making, as well as modelling future activities.
Commonly used software tools with a variety of databases and large datasets will be used to enhance your future employability.
This module aims to equip you with a state-of-the-art understanding of the digital business landscape, covering foundational management concepts as well as contemporary digital business innovations.
Learning is through interactive lectures and a series of carefully curated case studies of digital innovation and digital transformation projects.
The module places an emphasis on the strategic role of digital technologies in securing competitive advantage and sustainable growth, but you'll also be encouraged to dive deep into specific impact of digital technologies on business operations.
Through study and discussion, you will develop a critical understanding of the opportunities and challenges in starting and managing a digital business.
This module focuses on the social and ethical implications of AI and digital technologies and innovation with a central focus on the need to prioritise societal wellbeing and sustainability.
We will discuss the impact and consequences of the use of AI and digital transformation for individuals, organisations and societies in a global context.
You’ll be introduced to Responsible Innovation research and frameworks and learn to apply knowledge in relation to the design, implementation and adoption of AI and digital transformation.
With an emphasis on critical thinking, the module will be research-led, drawing on up-to-date academic literature and case studies.
This module explores the intricate relationship between digital transformation, artificial intelligence, and corporate governance in the modern business landscape.
Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of how AI drives innovation, while learning to apply agile methodologies to AI-driven digital initiatives.
The module delves into critical aspects such as cybersecurity challenges, change management strategies, and the formulation of effective governance frameworks for digital and AI projects.
You’ll develop leadership skills essential for successful digital transformation, including the ability to foster an innovation culture and manage change in AI-driven environments.
You’ll also learn about measuring and optimising digital transformation efforts, leveraging AI technologies.
The aim of this module is to explore emerging technologies in the context of design thinking and techniques that provide a necessary bridge between potential and actual value in application contexts.
The module will provide you with conceptual knowledge and practical skills, to critically evaluate the potential of emerging technologies and design ways to translate that into value in given application contexts.
You will design a lightweight prototype demonstrating the user experience associated with that emerging technology and will critically evaluate the benefits and limitations of that same emerging technology.
This module aims to provide you with theoretical and practical guidance on empirical research and consulting related to business analytics challenges in an organisational setting.
The emphasis is placed on developing your analytical thinking, qualitative and quantitative research skills and consulting practice to prepare you for your consulting project.
The module covers a range of topics from research approaches suitable for business analytics, quantitative and qualitative methods in collecting/harvesting and analysing data, innovations in digital research methods, consulting skills and ethical considerations in conducting research related to business analytics.
The consulting project provides students with direct access to industry professionals and AI-driven management practices in a business setting.
The consulting project aims to enhance knowledge of the technical, ethical, and organisational challenges in implementing AI in business contexts.
You will work individually, guided by an academic supervisor.
The final deliverable will be a comprehensive report or practical AI implementation, demonstrating your ability to integrate AI knowledge with business acumen.
On this module you’ll develop knowledge and skills in cloud computing and its application to modern day business problems.
The emphasis is on generating unique web applications using architectures and cloud services that are commonly employed in industry.
You’ll gain knowledge of the architecture and operation of cloud platforms and the services they provide, how cloud solutions are employed by organisations in practice and the scaling, security and transitioning issues that arise in deployment.
This understanding is reinforced practically via hands-on experience of developing a prototype cloud service using a commercially available platform.
Being more data-informed is now a principal mechanism for customer-based differentiation in all industries.
This module addresses the fundamentals of data, progressing through descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytics, to practical uses of analytics such as KPIs, metrics, and analytical tools with a focus on the holistic nature of marketing analytics.
By the end of the module you’ll be able to understand the importance of marketing analytics in making strategic decisions in marketing and be able to identify data and information sources for conducting marketing planning and analysis.
Assessment is carried out by a variety of methods including coursework, examinations and a dissertation.
UK Honours degree or equivalent.
Candidates with substantial and relevant professional qualifications or professional experience in an associated area will also be considered.
On graduating with a Masters degree in AI for Business from Royal Holloway you will possess sought-after knowledge and skills needed for a career in today’s fast-changing business world.
We will help you to recognise and identify your strengths, skills and abilities so that you can make strong applications for your chosen career, or for further study.
Postgraduate students from our School of Business and Management have gone on to roles in a variety of companies including Amazon, Tesco, Accenture, Ogilvy, KPMG, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bloomberg LP, Ocado Group, HSBC, Fuji film, Huawei, Deutsche Bahn and Qatar Airways.
Home (UK) students tuition fee per year*: £16,100
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £28,300
Find out more about funding options, including loans, grants, scholarships and bursaries.
* and ** These tuition fees apply to students enrolled on a full-time basis in the academic year 2025/26.
Students studying on the standard part-time course structure over two years are charged 50% of the full-time applicable fee for each study year.
Royal Holloway reserves the right to increase all postgraduate tuition fees annually.
For further information, see fees and funding ,and terms and conditions .
** This figure is the fee for EU and international students starting a degree in the academic year 2025/26.
*** These estimated costs relate to studying this particular degree at Royal Holloway during the 2025/26 academic year, and are included as a guide.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/business-and-management/international-business-management:
International Business Management
Please note, there are two application deadlines for the September 2025 start: the deadline for overseas applicants is 20 August 2025, and for home applicants, it is 29 August 2025.
We also offer a January 2026 start for this course.
For more details, click here
International/EU fees ** : £26,100
International Business Management (Marketing)
International / EU fees ** : £26,100
International Business Management (Strategy and Leadership)
The Royal Holloway International Business Management MSc is a rigorous - and rewarding - programme aimed at ambitious and self-motivated individuals at the outset of their professional working life.
It is ideal for those who wish to pursue a postgraduate degree in general management with an international orientation and will prepare you to enter the globalised world of work on a competitive footing, maximising your potential and widening your choices.
On graduating you will have a comprehensive and integrated knowledge and understanding of organisations, their management and the environment in which they operate.
As part of this, you will have examined accounting and finance from a manager's point of view and evaluated the impact of internal and external factors on the kinds of human resource strategies drawn up by international organisations.
The course will provide an understanding of how international management fits into the organisation and running of a company or multi-company corporation.
There is also the option to participate in a field study trip, involving visits to a range of companies in a different country and an examination of how businesses operate at an international level.
Read more about the 2024 trip to Helsinki and Tallinn here .
As a member of the School of Business and Management you will join an intellectually stimulating, friendly and supportive research environment and, through working closely with our expert and experienced academic staff, you will be in a position to realise your full potential.
This year we will be running the following insightful modules which are all mandatory:
This module provides you with an understanding of the substantial issues a firm and its managers have to deal with.
It contains two halves.
The first half of the module introduces you to (a) the strategic decisions a manager must make in order to survive and compete in the marketplace, and (b) the resource allocation problems between and within firms, their consumers, and how to address them.
The decisions to address these ‘big issues’ are discussed in the context of varying economic characteristics of a firm and the competitiveness of its environment.
The second half of the module aims to give a fundamental understanding of key accounting and finance techniques and practices; provide awareness of the impact of contexts (different countries, industries, markets, and regulatory regimes) on accounting and finance ideas and practices; and develop an awareness of the analytical usefulness of accounting and finance data, in a manner that emphasises the importance of a wider business understanding for such analysis and the limitations as well as the strengths of the data.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how international strategy and entrepreneurship fit into the organisation and running of a commercial entity.
You will look at the ways in which a firm can achieve sustainable competitive advantage through strategy and entrepreneurship, evaluating the processes that firms use to develop, renew and reconfigure these.
You will also examine the theoretical frameworks of strategy and entrepreneurship in the real business world.
This module provides you with an understanding of people management and organisational issues that a firm and its managers have to deal with.
The aim of the module is twofold: a) to enable you to consider the impact of globalisation, culture and communication on people and organisation; and b) to enable you to examine managing people in the context of modern geopolitics and employment relations.
This module provides you with an understanding of the substantial issues a firm and its managers must deal with.
The first half of the module introduces you to some key issues concerning digitalisation in today’s global business environment.
Starting with the use of information systems and digital technologies for attaining competitive advantage, the module will address organisational and managerial concerns in the effective implementation and use of information systems.
Emphasis will be placed on recent developments such as big data, digital business transformation, and the opportunities and challenges these create for organisations.
A variety of case studies will help make explicit the problems involved in the management of technological change in organisations as well as the impact of information systems on organisational culture and context.
The second half of the module explores how marketing practice fits into the organisation and running of a global corporation.
After an introduction of key marketing concepts, this exploration is guided by a series of contemporary topics, ranging from the global marketing environment and the evaluation of standardisation and adaptation strategies to a discussion of cultural forces and their influence on consumer behaviour.
The module concludes with a reflection on common criticisms of marketing practice and discusses typical responses from marketers.
This module is delivered to build personal effectiveness in the business environment.
You’ll study essential business skills related to communication, employability, and discipline-specific academic literacy providing an opportunity to successfully engage with learning on the course, including reading for and participation in workshops and completion of coursework assignments.
You’ll learn to distinguish between scientific and non-scientific research and the appropriate use of different research methods and the module provides the foundation for the Independent Business Project to be conducted in the summer term.
The aim of the module is to introduce you to some of the main topics in the important field of operations management.
Operations management is concerned with the design, planning and control of operating systems for the provision of goods and services.
This module provides you with an insight into the tools and techniques used in the management of operational systems and into the factors that affect the choice of operating methods.
The module also provides you with a sound understanding of the essentials of modern operations practices and introduces principles of supply chain management, logistics and transportation required to support global supply chains.
This module provides you with the opportunity to investigate, analyse and make recommendations for a business project related to general management areas, developing the skills to critically evaluate and select the appropriate method to conduct the project.
Analysis will then be communicated in the form of a project brief and 10,000-word report.
The module will provide you with direct access to varied industry professionals and management practices in a cross-cultural, international setting.
The aim of the module is to provide a variety of opportunities for experiential learning such as company visits, presentations by and discussions with business leaders, and in-class workshops.
The study trip will provide you with the opportunity to learn from the business models and practices of major domestic and global businesses operating in the destination country or countries chosen for the field trip each year.
An important learning outcome is to enhance your appreciation of the significant cultural challenges entailed in managing business operations in a global context.
You will be required to engage in pre-trip preparatory work as well as post-trip reflection activities in-class in groups in order to embed the experiential learning gained through the study trip.
You will also be required to submit an assignment that will challenge you to reflect on your study trip while addressing specific questions relating to one of the companies visited.
Assessment is carried out by a variety of methods including written assignments, closed-book examinations, in-class tests, oral presentations, group work and independent research.
On graduating with a MSc in International Business Management from Royal Holloway you will be in a position to take a variety of different career paths.
You may choose to combine this qualification with your first degree studies to indicate a market sector or a functional specialism.
Important skills are gained for those entering fields such as finance, accountancy and regulatory bodies; we also recognise the role of family and closely held business enterprises for some.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £26,100
For those who select to participate in the Optional Module 'International Business Study Field Trip', there will be some additional costs relating to the expenses of the trip.
Please note the above information relates to starting this course in September 2025.
Information relating to starting this course in January 2025 is different, and can be found here.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/classics/ancient-history:
MA
Duration: 1 year full time
or 2 years part time
UK fees * : £11,600
If you are seeking to further your undergraduate qualification, conducting research into or wanting to specialise in the history of the ancient Greek, Roman and Near Eastern worlds, then this programme offers you the perfect opportunity to do just that.
Covering the historical period from Classical Athens to Christian Byzantium, we offer courses which allow you to examine many aspects of the Ancient History of Greece, Rome and the Near East.
Our Ancient History MA also provides postgraduates with the ideal foundation for conducting further research at doctoral level.
Organised on an intercollegiate basis, this course is jointly run with King’s College London and University College London to enable you to take full advantage of the teaching expertise of all three participating colleges.
This tri-collegiate approach offers up an unparalleled range of modules to study: postgraduate units cover Greek and Latin literature and ancient philosophy, as well as key technical skills such as papyrology, epigraphy, and palaeography.
Our Classics department has an excellent track record in producing research that advances the understanding of the ancient world.
A thriving and internationally recognised centre of excellence in research and teaching, the department is home to two Research Centres - the Centre for the Reception of Greece and Rome (CRGR) and the Centre for Oratory and Rhetoric (COR).
Research in the department covers the whole range of Classical Studies, from Homeric Greece to the very end of the Roman Empire with particular interests in language, literature, history, ancient philosophy as well as Greek and Roman archaeology.
In teaching ancient history, we are particularly well equipped to supervise dissertations on the history of Greek law, Athenian political and social history, the Roman army, ancient shipping and shipsheds, ancient urbanism, and the economic, political and social history of Rome.
A global leader in Masters provision, Royal Holloway gives you the opportunity to take part in one of the most extensive programmes of research seminars and training programmes offered by any institution.
During your time with us you will be under the careful supervision of our academic staff with access to not only the Royal Holloway library but also the world-class resources of the Institute of Classical Studies , the Warburg Institute , the British Library , Senate House Library , and other specialised libraries in the School of Advanced Study .
This module will introduce you to the disciplines, methodologies, and problems that may be encountered when engaging in research in the area of ancient history.
You will cover a range of topics from epigraphy and papyrology to general issues of method in ancient history.
You will become equipped with the knowledge, skills, and bibliography that will enable you to develop a research project and pursue it successfully.
You will give a presentation about your dissertation topic at an intercollegiate dissertation symposium in the summer term.
You will produce an extended piece of original work of between 10,000 and 12,000 words in the field of ancient history.
You will choose a topic in consultation with staff members with appropriate expertise, and be assigned a supervisor.
You will be supported through the process of gathering research materials and organising your work both through intercollegiate and departmental workshops.
During Spring and Summer Term, dissertation supervisors arrange periodic meeting with you every two to four weeks, as needed, to discuss progress, solve issues and review drafts.
Over the summer, you will prepare a draft of the dissertation which your supervisor will offer feedback on, allowing you to make improvements, amendments and revisions before submission in September.
You will develop your skills in employing relevant research methodologies at an advanced level, engaging with existing scholarship to situate your project within context of current debate.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the practice of architecture and construction in the Greek world.
You will look at the development of architectural orders, the role of architects, the design process, building techniques, the sources and supply of materials, town planning, and religious, civic, domestic and funerary building types.
You will consider how to interpret primary architectural data using appropriate scholarly and theoretical frameworks, and examine the archaeological significance of architectural remains and their potential in studying ancient built environments and landscapes.
You will learn how to create a three-dimensional photogrammetry model.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the political and ethical questions surrounding Roman archaeology in the modern world.
You will look at the history of the discipline, the impact of modern conflict, archaeology in national and international law, museums and museum display, and the use of archaeology in historical fiction, film and TV.
You will consider the issues and problems in the presentation and preservation of Roman archaeology and examine the practical and theoretical aspects encountered when attempting to answer who own the Roman past.
This module provides you with the opportunity to engage in an-depth study of the material remains of Pompeii and Herculaneum (and the villas at Stabiae, Oplontis and Boscoreale) and assess their special value – but also their limitations – as primary sources for archaeologists and cultural historians.
You will analuse general issues of preservation, excavation, chronology, and presentation of the sites to the public as well as a range of topics relating to the specific types of evidence for which the Vesuvian sites are renowned.
This module aims to explore the varied roles that water played in ancient lives.
During the module, you will look at the various technologies that were employed in the capture, supply and management of water in the ancient world, examining both the technological and social implications of these methods.
In the first part of the module, you will investigate the key technologies (e.g.
aqueducts, dams, reservoirs, bathhouses) in both rural and urban settings via a series of in-depth case studies of particular sites and regions.
In the second part of the module, you will explore the social meanings behind these technological choices, drawing on material from Anthropology and Science and Technology Studies, and setting them within the wider context of debates on the ancient economy and supposed technological stagnation in the ancient world.
This module will take you through the major sources of archaeological evidence we have for life in the Roman Near East.
In the first term, you will get the opportunity to develop your understanding and knowledge of the archaeology of the Roman Near East, including an overview of the periods prior to the Romans.
Topics to be covered in this term will include Roman urbanism, rural settlement and agriculture, water supply and religion.
In the second term, you will explore some of the key theories, methods and approaches related to the Roman Near East, for example different ways of looking at 'Romanization' as well as theories and practices related to material culture.
In addition, you will engage with themes related to who owns the past and how that past is presented in different settings and for different audiences.
The urban centre of ancient Athens was a modest town from antiquity until the nineteenth century when it became the capital of the newly independent state.
The city has grown phenomenally over the last two centuries and the preservation of the archaeological remains is varied.
The course will combine classroom teaching with an excursion to Athens where the relationship between the modern city and the primary material at the archaeological parks and museums can be studied at first hand.
The lectures and seminars will provide a methodological and chronological framework for studying the material remains of the ancient city.
Several themes will run through the course and they include, for example, the following: How are the religious and burial customs reflected in the archaeological record of Athens?
What types of manifestations did the administration and politics of the polis have in architecture?
How did the city prepare for war?
What was the urban environment like?
In this module you will develop an understanding of the sources and modern analytical methods which can be used to study the City of Rome.
You will look at the topography of ancient Rome and consider its relevance to Roman political, social and cultural history.
Our main evidence for the Athenian democracy in the fourth century are the speeches composed for delivery in court.
At the same time, the speeches also offer a unique insight into Athenian social relations and social values through the stories told by individual litigants to their audiences consisting of large number of ordinary citizens who were serving as judges.
This module offers an opportunity to study the ways in which the lives of the inhabitants of late fifth and fourth century Athens – citizens, resident aliens, and slaves – were regulated by the city's laws, and equally important how this normative framework could manipulated and sometimes even subverted by members of the community.
The module will also offer an introduction to classical Athenian rhetoric, and the seminars will focus on the rhetorical strategies adopted by Athenian litigants in a wide variety of contexts.
A broad range of Athenian lawcourt speeches in translation will be complemented by the study of texts (also in translation) by Plato, Xenophon and Aristophanes.
In this module you will develop an understanding of a broad range of philological issues associated with selected books of Homer's Iliad.
You will read significant sections from selected books in the original Greek and examine key issues such as literary criticism, philosophy, anthropology and the study of oral traditions pertaining to the Iliad.
In this module you will develop an understanding of a broad range of philological issues associated with selected books of Homer's Odyssey.
You will read significant sections from selected books in the original Greek and examine aspects of higher criticism, including literary, philosophical and anthropological approaches and discussions of general critical theory pertinent to the study of the Odyssey.
In this module you will develop an understanding of Roman identity and the ways in which Tacitus seeks to define what it means to be Roman under the early Principate.
You will read selected excerpts from Tacitus' Agricola, Historiae and Annales, considering the key features of Tacitus' literary technique and examine the relationship between literary form and content.
In this module you will develop an understanding of Roman identity and the ways in which Tacitus seeks to represent the experience of being Roman under the early Principate.
You will look at key features of Tacitus' literary technique, considering the relationships between literary form and content in Tacitus Agricola, Historiae and Annales.
Intercollegiate modules available at our University of London partner institutions:
In this module you will develop an understanding of the basic grammar, syntax, and vocabulary of Attic Greek.
You will become proficient in reading unseen simple passages of Greek without assistance and gain confidence in handling Ancient Greek texts in their original form.
In this module you will further develop your understanding of the Ancient Greek language to the point where you are able to read substantial texts.
You will carry out grammatical exercises, including some translation from English into Greek, as well as preparing to translate passages from Greek to English.
As your confidence increases, you will increasingly focus on the translation and interpretation of texts.
The module is in two parts.
The first term is exploratory: you will read selected texts from the whole medieval period - from late antiquity to the high Middle Ages - in a variety of genres (theology, poetry, history, law, etc.) In the second term you will learn how to edit a medieval Latin text.
The aim of this module is to train you to read, date and describe Latin manuscripts from AD 500 - 1500 and to understand manuscript culture and the circumstances in which texts were transmitted from the Middle Ages to modern times.
It consists of a survey of the history of Latin handwriting from antiquity to the Renaissance.
You will also be taught how to describe a manuscript book and will be introduced to codicology.
This module covers the transitional period which preceded and followed the Arabic conquest of large parts of the Byzantine empire in the seventh century.
Initially, Byzantium struggled to contain the Arabic expansion in the East and the Slavic settlement in its European provinces.
Numerous administrative reforms testify to this effort, and perhaps equally, one of the most emblematic theological debates to be associated with the Eastern empire, that of Iconoclasm.
In this module you will look closely at how the Byzantines faced these threats to their stability and follow the historical course up to the onset of gradual economic, political and cultural revival in the late eighth century.
This module will introduce you to the history of magic in late antiquity (from the third to fifth centuries CE) through the close and contextualized study of a number of magical texts, with a particular focus on the Greek Magical Papyri, and some comparative consideration of magical texts in Demotic, Coptic, Syriac and Latin.
You will read a range of these texts (in translation), from curses and erotic magic to spells of healing and exorcism, and learn to analyse them in their social, political and cultural contexts.
You will explore the literary, material and visual qualities of magical texts and objects, as well as considering their ritual functions.
This module will develop your ability to analyse and critique the varied contemporary interpretations of magical texts and practices, and to formulate and substantiate your own research questions related to late antique magical practices and magical texts.
This module provides an introduction to the varied physical remains left behind by Late Antiquity, primarily in the eastern Mediterranean (4th to 7th century).
The selection of material and issues examined range from the urban and rural landscapes, fortifications, palaces, houses, monasteries and churches, to monumental decoration and small scale objects.
This wide range of topics will be investigated thematically from a primarily functional and practical point of view, in order to trace and highlight the significant changes that occurred in this period, signalling different stages in the transformation of the Roman heritage.
Each subject will be approached on the basis of case studies that exemplify the nature and problems of the evidence.
In this module you will be introduced to the study of Greek papyri, documentary as well as literary.
The texts are studied from facsimiles and are chosen to illustrate the development of Greek bookhands and cursive scripts.
You will also learn to examine formal aspects of the transmission of Greek literature on papyrus, and familiarise yourself with the range of documentary types available as sources for the history of Graeco-Roman Egypt.
Assessment is primarily carried out by coursework and the dissertation, although some examinations may be used particularly in language acquisition classes.
Full-year units will normally be completed by the end of the second term with coursework usually due in June.
Some half-year units taught in the autumn term may have coursework deadlines in January.
Part-time students will take two taught modules in their first year, and a third taught module plus dissertation in their second year.
Each of these elements will normally be examined in the year in which it is taken.
UK Bachelors degree or equivalent.
Successful applicants will usually have the following qualities: A broad appreciation of the civilizations and historical framework of the ancient world A keen interest in primary sources and the different interpretations that have been put on them The ability to synthesise judgements from multiple viewpoints.
Successful applicants will usually have the following qualities:
A sample essay may be required if we would like more information upon which to base a decision.
Graduates of classical degrees have much to offer potential employers having developed a range of transferable skills, both practical and theoretical, whilst studying with us.
With up to 90% of our most recent graduates now working or in further study, according to the Complete University Guide 2015, it’s true to say our graduates are highly employable.
In recent years, PhD graduates, many of whom have progressed from our MA courses, have taken up academic positions at Oxford, Bristol and Roehampton Universities.
Outside of academia, our graduates have embarked on teaching careers in the UK and overseas, undertaken archaeological and museum work and pursued careers in journalism, finance, politics and the arts.
Home (UK) students tuition fee per year*: £11,600
Other essential costs***: Should you decide to take modules which are delivered in Central London then travel will be required.
Student Helpdesk
+44 (0)1784 276882

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/computer-science/artificial-intelligence:
Artificial Intelligence
UK fees * : £14,400
Artificial Intelligence with a Year in Industry
Duration: 2 years full time
International / EU fees ** : £28,300
Equipped with Artificial Intelligence techniques, today’s systems can teach themselves to perform tasks almost as well as humans can.
This degree provides you with the foundational knowledge and the practical skills required to operate with these disruptive technologies.
Choose from a one-year programme structure or add an optional year in industry You’ll study in a department renowned for the quality of its research.
Placed within the top 25% of Computer Science departments nationally for research quality, 95% of our research is assessed as world-leading and internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance and rigour in the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF, 2021).
This module focuses on acquiring a deep understanding of foundational AI principles and techniques to model complex real-world problems as well as writing algorithms and problems to solve them.
The module will start with an introduction to AI that will define core AI concepts, provide the philosophical foundations of AI and discuss ethical issues in this field.
The module will continue by covering intelligent agents and classical search to then move to local search and optimisation algorithms.
Finally, adversarial search and constraint satisfaction problems will also be taught.
All these topics will be covered both from a theoretical point of view, during the lectures, and from a practical point of view during the labs.
This specialist module focuses on acquiring a deep understanding of the principles and techniques that are needed to design and build autonomous intelligent systems (AISs).
The module will start with an introduction to AISs and real-world examples of them.
It will then cover knowledge representation and engineering techniques based on formal logic.
The module will then tackle autonomous decision making techniques, from AI planning to probabilistic reasoning and Markov Decision Processes.
Reinforcement learning and techniques for cooperation and coordination between artificial agents will also be taught.
All these topics will be discussed both from a theoretical point of view, during the lectures, and from a practical point of view, during the labs.
This course is designed to enhance your awareness of the many ethical implications of working with advanced technology.
The course recognises that the ethical issues in computing and AI come to the forefront through developments in technology, bringing new responsibility for novel ethical, social, and legal implications of technology almost on a daily basis.
For the following optional course modules available during your degree studies, more details can be found on the department website here
In this module you will develop an understanding of the mathematical theory underlying the main principles and methods of statistics, in particular, parametric estimation and hypotheses testing.
You will learn how to formulate statistical problems in rigorous mathematical terms, and how to select and apply appropriate tools of mathematical statistics and advanced probability.
You will construct mathematical proofs of some of the main theoretical results of mathematical statistics and consider the asymptotic theory of estimation.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the construction of information networks, specifically the architecture and operation of the internet protocol suite.
You will look at the construction of a modern computer system, considering hardware and software components which support multiprocessing.
You will examine the causes and potential effects of vulnerabilities that affect computer systems and identify appropriate countermeasures, including user authentication and access control mechanisms.
You will evaluate authentication and key exchange protocols, such as how SSL and TLS are applied to the internet, and analyse the key security threats faced in network environments.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the uses of cryptography.
You will look at the basic cryptographic mechanisms used to provide core security services and examine differences between them, identifying situations in which they are most usefully employed.
You will consider the issues that need to be addressed to secure an application, and evaluate the limitations of cryptography and methods for supporting it within a full security architecture.
The module is concerned with the protection of data transferred over digital networks, including computer and telecommunications networks.
We review networking concepts, particularly the concepts of services and protocols, and study how services are incorporated in network communications by specifying protocols.
We extend the discussion of services to address security concerns, considering how cryptographic primitives may be used to provide confidentiality, integrity and authentication services.
We illustrate these concepts by considering case studies, including WEP/WPA/WPA2, GSM and UMTS, IPsec and SSL/TLS.
We also study non-cryptographic countermeasures, including packet-filtering and intrusion detection.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the role of security mechanisms for modern computer systems, including both hardware and software.
You will look at the mechanisms that are used to implement security policies, considering core concepts such as security models, subjects and objects, authorisation and access rights.
You will examine the use and operation of a range of access and control methods and authentication mechanisms, such as tokens an biometrics.
You will also and evaluate the main issues relating to software security and their effect on the security of computer systems, in particular, the practical implementation of access control.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the need for effective security management.
You will look at alternative security strategies and examine methods for responding to security management problems.
You will critically evaluate different approaches and consider security management requirements.
Sessions will be delivered by a combination of security practitioners, information managers and academics and you will be encouraged to actively discuss the subject matter, engaging in an online discussion forum.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the foundations and theoretical underpinnings of how data is generated, stored, transmitted, and used as evidence.
You will look at the methods used for the collection and analysis of digital evidence, and consider how the integrity of the underlying data is maintained.
You will examine the general and UK legal requirements for data storage, and consider the frameworks for the handling and processing of such evidence.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the common approaches and methodologies used for carrying out and managing security and penetration testing, including legal requirements for such audits.
You will look at network protocols, relevant computer system architectures, and web application systems, considering their vulnerabilities, common forms of attack, and security technologies designed to mitigate these.
You will gain practical experience of exploiting vulnerabilities to penetrate a system, learning how to design secure systems and defend them against intrusion.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the importance of security in the development of applications.
You will look at poor programming practices and how they can be exploited, leading to catastrophic security breaches.
You will consider the threat posed by malicious software and examine some of the newer research trends that are likely to influence software security work in the coming years.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the key areas of cyber security, with a particular focus on the critical national information (CNI) infrastructure.
You will look at fault and attack models for information and cyber-physical systems, considering variants of attack trees.
You will analyse large-scale networks and their robustness for both random failures and deliberate attacks, evaluating how key elements of the CNI, such as the internet and power and transport infrasturctures, can be captured by such models.
You will also examine case studies of attacks by state actors and security problems in control systems protocols.
The programme will include modules in
UK 2:2 Bachelor honours degree or equivalent in Computer Engineering, Computing, Computer Science Engineering, Software Engineering, or other subjects that include a strong element of Maths, Physics, and other Engineering (excluding Civil, Mechanical, Material and Biomedical Engineering).
Candidates with professional qualifications or relevant professional experience in an associated area will also be considered.
Our proximity to the M4 corridor – also known as 'England’s Silicon Valley' – provides excellent networking opportunities with some of the country’s top technology institutions.
We bring several companies to our campus throughout the year, both for fairs and for delivering advanced topics seminars, which are an excellent opportunity to learn about what they do and discuss possible placements or jobs.
Our graduates enter into successful careers in academia or in companies or organisations operating in highly competitive areas.
In recent years, these have included Amazon, American Express, BGL Group, Bupa, Capita, Centrica, EY, Facebook, Google, Hortonworks, JP Morgan, Microsoft, ONS, PWC, QuintilesIMS, Rolls Royce, Shell, UBS, VMware, Xerox and the Z/Yen Group.
In addition to the support provided by The Careers and Employability Service, the department has a dedicated administrator and an academic who coordinates and oversees placements and job opportunities.
Home (UK) students tuition fee per year*: £14,400
+44 (0)1784 443432

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/drama-theatre-and-dance/theatre-directing:
Theatre Directing
Campus: Egham and Central London
Learn from Katie Mitchell - one of British theatre’s leading innovators – and a team of cutting-edge researchers to realise your full potential as a creatively dynamic and intellectually robust theatre director.
Hone your practice while developing critical thinking skills that will not only make you a better artist but give you an edge in a highly competitive field.
Mitchell calls our Department of Drama, Theatre, and Dance the home of her revolutionary practice, demystifying the craft of directing by offering intuitive practical techniques for conceiving and rehearsing productions based on the Stanislavskian tradition.
Regardless of your background, our year-long MA will enable you to learn these techniques, combining them  with our Department’s sector-leading culture of research and practice.
Our staff expertise covers an unparalleled range of subjects that you can pursue as part of the course, including immersive theatre, sustainability in the creative industries, Black British theatre, site-specific performance, verbatim, adaptation, Japanese Noh, Shakespeare, ancient Greek drama, and much more.
Become a theatre change-maker
Work with one of the world’s foremost directors, Katie Mitchell OBE, alongside the Department of Drama, Theatre, and Dance’s top experts and practitioners
Combine unique practical training with robust intellectual development, equipping you with a dynamic profile of creative and critical skills
Graduate ready for a thriving career in the creative industries – and help lead the way in envisioning a new theatre for a rapidly changing world.
This programme begins with a five-day intensive with Katie Mitchell the week prior to the start of Royal Holloway’s academic year.
For 2025/26, this week will be 15 September.
You must be available for this intensive to participate in the programme.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to take a prepared text into the rehearsal room, articulate a concept for a text and translate it into legible performance.
You will work with actors, begin to develop a personal style and focus on how to work with a creative team and their related disciplines.
You will learn how to plan a rehearsal schedule, manage the rehearsal process from the first day to final performance, and critically reflect on this process of training in relation to current directing practise.
Dramaturgy is the process of creative research that facilitates a successful transfer of source material to the stage.
In this module, you will develop the multi-dimensional skills of the dramaturge in order to then propose and construct a directorial concept.
You will be introduced to a broad range of contemporary directors working in Europe and beyond with a specific focus on their dramaturgical approaches and the shaping of an overriding concept.
Case studies will include directors who adapt canonical 19th century plays, such as Yana Ross, or Shakespeare texts, such as Thomas Ostermeier, or adapt films or novels for the stage, such as Ivo van Hove.
In addition, you will analyse the complex dramaturgical strategy of adapting multiple texts for a single performance in works by directors such as Krzysztof Warlikowski, or those who use real-life scenarios and documented histories, such as Lola Arias and Oliver Frljić.
You will then have the chance to adapt a text for performance through a dramaturgical portfolio and propose an original concept.
This module explores the work of a wide range of contemporary British dramatists and directors including, indicatively, debbie tucker green, Lucy Prebble, Bola Agbaje, Lucy Kirkwood, Caryl Churchill, Moira Buffini, Tanika Gupta, Roy Williams, Nick Payne, Simon Stephens, Mike Bartlett, Rob Drummond, and Anders Lustgarten.
Specifically, it enables you to situate playwriting and performance as powerful modes of intervention in the public sphere.
The aim of the module is to widen and deepen your understanding of theatre as a material and meaningful intervention in the contemporary world, to enable you to identify key developments in recent British theatre, and to utilise interdisciplinary modes of research.
The programme begins with a week-long intensive in the week prior to the start of the Royal Holloway academic year.
During regular term time the programme modules are taught in seminar and practical workshop modes as appropriate to the module.
Outside of timetabled classes, directors are expected to rehearse several times a week through most of the first two terms, putting into practice the skills taught in modules.
Rehearsed projects include collaborations with BA acting students.
Opportunities to visit theatrical performances and rehearsal rooms are also an important part of the programme, and you will be encouraged to use these as a basis for discussion and to deconstruct the performances they have seen from a variety of critical positions.
Assessment is by a variety of means including essays (both theoretical and critical) and etudes (practical directing exercises), practical projects as well as a final dissertation of 10-14,000 words.
Practical projects are sometimes carried out in a group.
•    You'll take a core practical module in directing led by Mitchell, introducing you to the key professional skills whilst developing your directing technique in a rehearsal room setting with professional actors.
•    You'll take four further modules that provide a rigorous grounding in subjects such as contemporary British theatre, concept, dramaturgy, industry practices, and research methods.
•    You'll have multiple opportunities to direct throughout the year, including an extended independent project in the summer term.
•    Get to work in our suite of high-quality rehearsal and performance spaces, including the Boilerhouse Theatre, a converted nineteenth century ‘found space’ with a sprung, heated floor ideal for movement work, and the Caryl Churchill Theatre, a 150-seat flexible space on three levels designed by award-winning theatre architects Foster-Wilson.
•    Opportunities to work alongside writers and thinkers on our partner MA programmes in an environment that will foster your creative and critical development.
·
Normally, we require a UK 2:2 (Honours) or equivalent is required.
Applicants will be required to submit one academic essay that they have submitted for assessment on a previous course or an analysis of any theatre production that they have recently seen (2000 words).
Suitable applicants are interviewed.
Relevant professional qualifications and relevant experience in an associated area will be considered.
Extensive and recent practical theatre experience might compensate for a lack of the normal academic qualifications, however applicants should be aware that completing a dissertation is an important part of this degree.
By the end of this course, you will have an enhanced understanding of the tasks and responsibilities of a director, and developed your abilily to work with actors and space.
You will also have gained experience in working through the research and preparation necessary to direct a piece of theatre, and have the ability to research and articulate an extended analytic discussion of theatre directing.
Our graduates have started careers in professional theatre, film and television as well as training and education.
If you come to the end of the course and find yourself curious about an area of study – or want to take your dissertation topic further – the MA is a perfect grounding for a PhD, which may be fully written or include a practice-based component.
The department gives you access to other creative areas of study like dance, media and art.
Part of our reputation as a creative campus comes from this cross-pollination of studies and disciplines, so you'll have a good chance to push into those fields and gain knowledge of theatres and the performance scene in London and beyond.
You'll leave the MA able to navigate an intense and growing field with credibility and creativity.
Other essential costs***: TBC
Krista Godfrey, School Admin Officer

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/economics/economics:
International/EU fees ** : £23,700
Our MSc Economics degree course is designed to equip you with the tools of a modern economist.
It will help prepare you for your chosen career path, whether in the private and financial services sectors or in government or if you wish to continue your studies doing a PhD.
Through your studies you will gain a strong grounding in core areas of economics and have the flexibility to tailor your degree to areas you are particularly interested in, such as political economy, financial econometrics or decision theory and behaviour.
Studying in the Department of Economics within the School of Law and Social Sciences at Royal Holloway means that you will learn from internationally renowned experts at one of the UK’s top ten teaching and research Economics departments.
You will have close contact with the academic staff teaching on the course and you will receive individual support from the course director.
Our facilities include access to Bloomberg terminals, which are used by financial traders and investment banks globally.
These give you access to live financial and economic data, portfolio construction and optimisation tools, information and analytics to support your studies.
We are also equipped with state-of-the-art software packages such Stata, Matlab and Python.
A two-week pre-sessional course is available to bring you up to speed with your quantitative skills.
On graduation you will have the ability to solve theoretical and applied problems in economic policy, critically evaluate current research, develop simplified frameworks for studying the real world and be able to appreciate what would be an appropriate level of abstraction for a range of economic issues.
In this module you will develop an understanding of basic mathematical methods that are used in the study of Economics and Finance, including basic matrix analysis, topology, statistics, and probability theory.
You will look at differentiation and integration of standard functions, and basic manipulations of vectors and matrices.
You will also examine various optimisation problems and theorems leading to certain basic results in calculus.
This module will develop your understanding of the basics of modern microeconomic analysis.
You will become familiar with the tools that economists use to analyse problems of resource allocation in market settings, beginning with a formal analysis of the optimising behaviour of consumers and producers.
You will be introduced to markets and the notion of competitive equilibrium, in both partial and general equilibrium settings.
You will then look at how individual market participants can affect prices, analysing the problem of a monopolist.
Finally, you will consider static game theory to analyse markets where a small number of firms compete with each other (oligopolies).
You will attend a set of preparatory classes to equip you with the necessary skills required for research, including a hands-on approach to using statistical packages and reading peer-reviewed articles.
You will be expected to use either econometric or statistical techniques, and apply your knowledge and skills from the other quantitative methods and theory modules taken during your studies, to produce your own piece of research around 10,000 words in length.
The aim of the course is to give guidance to students who want to work in the financial industry.
The level of this course is mostly for third year or MSc students, but it does not require pre-existing knowledge so first and second year students can follow this course.
This course aims to bridge the gap between finance studies at university and what finance industry professional expect from graduates.
The course explains precisely what existing finance jobs entail, what is required from the people working in those jobs, what the perspectives of these jobs are.
This course will also prepare students for the professional interview of such a job.
This course covers static and dynamic games, games with incomplete information, Bayesian decision theory, and common knowledge.
Particular topics include the minimax theorem for zero-sum games, the equivalence of Nash and minimax equilibria for zero-sum games, extensive-form games, backward induction in extensive-form games, subgame perfection, the representation of incomplete information in games, how agents update when they receive information, infinitely-repeated games, folk theorems in infinitely-repeated games, and the effect of common knowledge on the willingness of agents to trade and bet, signalling, and Bayesian perfect equilibria.
In this module you will develop an understanding of some of the key topics in macroeconomics, notably the roles of technological change, monetary policy, and fiscal policy in macroeconomic fluctuations.
You will look at models of economic growth, resource allocation, and technological change, evaluating empirical evidence of these, and you become familiar with techniques such as dynamic optimisation, log-linearisation and difference equations for general economic analysis.
This course aims to give students broad advanced-level training in the economics of policy evaluation.
It does so by providing students with the facility to apply economic models to evaluate actual policy interventions, and teaches them quantitative techniques and qualitative methods, and particularly their application to evaluate actual policy interventions in particular fields and countries.
Students will learn to apply the following evaluation methods to public policy: i) randomised experiment, ii) natural experiments, iii) panel and fixed effects methods, iv) differences in differences methods, v) regression discontinuity designs, and vi) instrumental variables.
The aim of this module is to give a more in-depth look at corporate finance issues related to company evaluation and with the main user of those evaluations e.g.
private equity and Venture Capitalist (VC).
It also aims at giving a practical approach to key aspects of corporate valuation, for example, leverage.
Finally, this module will detail the dynamic and the valuation specificity for the different stages of the company from the start up, to the IPO to the mature company doing merger and acquisition.
This module provides an overview of a very significant area of the contemporary financial world.
The first part gives a coverage of the important elements of the default-free fixed income securities market, and the second part covers the derivatives market.
The module focuses on the analytical tools used in portfolio management and risk management.
For bond portfolios, these tools include yield curve construction, duration, convexity and formal term structure models.
For derivatives, the emphasis will be on valuation, trading mechanisms and management of credit risk.
The aim of this module is to provide an overview of the current research on health behaviour and outcomes in middle- and low-income countries, with special attention to the role of poverty and inequality in shaping those outcomes.
The module will focus on drivers of health outcomes and the effectiveness of different interventions and public health programmes and how the environment shapes disease incidence (such as malaria, and other vector-borne diseases).
The aim of this module is to provide an understanding on behavioural aspects of individual actions and outcomes related to health.
It will offer recent insights in behavioural economics, at the intersection with psychology and health economics to explore addictions, lifestyle choices and their consequences on individual health.
The module will also provide insights into why and how people decide to insure themselves against health shocks and the role of policy in shaping health behaviour, from taxes, outright bans (e.g.
illegal drugs, smoking restrictions) and behavioural interventions (nudges) like framing, reference points and the role of behavioural biases.
The aim of this module is to provide an understanding in the measurement and patterns of long-term trends in health outcomes, including the demographic transition and the evolution of life expectancy, anthropometrics and other indicators that measure quality of life.
The module will discuss historical aspects of health, including pandemics in history, the Industrial Revolution and the birth of Public Health, including vaccine programmes and the eradication of diseases and the nationalisation of healthcare.
2:2 (Honours) or equivalent in Economics, Mathematics, Physics, Engineering or a similarly mathematical subject.
Degrees in other subjects will also be considered if there are modules with a strong mathematical background.
An Economics masters degree at Royal Holloway, University of London will equip you with an enviable range of transferable skills and can lead into a variety of career paths as well as the knowledge and a solid foundation for continued PhD studies.
Employers recognise and reward the real knowledge and skills developed in an Economics degree.
We also provide careers support including application and interview coaching, career strategy discussions and the opportunity to network with major employees.
Source: THE REF institutions ranked by subject, 2014

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/electronic-engineering/engineering-management:
Engineering Management
Campus: Central London
Engineering Management with Cyber Security
Our MSc Engineering Management is designed to address the growing global demand for postgraduate engineers and scientists with management expertise and capabilities to address effective business strategies and outcomes.
The course has a strong emphasis on scientific, technological, and digital advancements with the convergence of established and modern engineering, manufacturing and service focused industries.
You will explore the strategic focus of developing multi and intra disciplinary characteristics of modern business enterprises while bridging the 'communication gap' between engineers and managers.
You will develop your understanding of the role that management plays in the investigation, implementation and operation of service and manufacturing systems with a wider appreciation of resource utilisation and recovery.
The course covers the importance of entrepreneurship, innovation, and the appreciation of core values of ethical and sustainable enterprises in global economies.
Our graduates are well equipped with the knowledge and transferable skill set to enable progression in all disciplines of management roles within both public and private sector organisations.
Your skills as a numerate and scientifically trained thinker, along with project and teamwork, business, and enterprise skills, and a sound understanding of the exploitation and benefits of technology and digital tools within workplace will prepare you for a rewarding career.
You will enjoy studying at our well-equipped central London location and work with our supportive academic staff to realise your full potential.
Our London base is located in the heart of Bloomsbury, central London.
We have our historic base at 11 Bedford Square as well as a dedicated suite in the University of London's impressive headquarters, Senate House, opposite the British Museum.
New for 2022 is the opening of our exclusive-use, modern teaching spaces in Stewart House.
These three buildings, just a few minutes apart, provide an inspiring and vibrant environment to stimulate creative and critical thinking.
This module provides an advanced and comprehensive review of current and future technological trends.
Individual competence in enabling the processes of innovation and implementing change are essential for leaders and managers in today’s technology organisations.
This module provides you with an opportunity to understand technology innovation and change – its drivers, risks, consequences, and people’s responses – and manage the interlinked processes of creativity, learning and critical thinking in the context of product and process innovation.
The module aims to enable you to develop in critically assessing, reflecting, and taking appropriate decisions in the broad area of effective interpersonal skills and the personal commitment to professional standards, their obligation to society, the profession, and the environment.
Some of the areas of professional practice development will include – effective interpersonal skills; professional standards and ethical conduct; health and safety at workplace; sustainable development goals and practices; continuous professional development (CPD); and developing and critically reviewing business proposals.
This module is intended to provide you with the key critical knowledge necessary for your successful employment within international and global technology-based organisations.
The module aims to provide you with an in-depth understanding of the general issues that guide global industrialisation and economic development, thus building your confidence and skills, at a managerial level, and facilitating your mobility within the global professional marketplace.
This module aims to extend, and enhance your knowledge in the derivation, from corporate strategy, of business change programmes and their comprising projects, and then the chartering, structuring, and governance of those collections of projects and programmes within businesses.
There is a strong emphasis on understanding the context of the project and programme and the extent to which this can be influenced or shaped by the initiation and agreed planning processes and outputs.
The module examines the development of engineering supply chains and logistics as a set of practices and methods, aimed at managing, coordinating, and implementing entire supply chain and logistics network within a business.
This includes sourcing of raw materials, to the production, manufacturing, packaging, and delivery to the eventual end user.
The module enables you to analyse emerging challenges within the competitive markets and the role of Engineering Supply Chains and Logistics in meeting these challenges.
This module precedes the dissertation and is aimed at allowing you to develop a plan for your research, resulting in a detailed proposal.
As such, work done on the module contributes towards the first three chapters of your Dissertation.
In this module you will acquire an understanding of the research context.
You will learn how to develop feasible research objectives and an appropriate conceptual/analytical framework for your research.
You will identify a significant subject area and problem faced by businesses and senior management in engineering.
You will deploy business research methods, collect and analyse data, and produce a substantial written report of around 15,000 words to a professional standard.
Over the 12 months of this course, you’ll take six taught course units, attend various seminars and workshops and complete a final project by dissertation.
Term 1 is made up of three taught course units, term 2 comprises three taught course units.
The dissertation will be on an engineering management topic.
If you choose to study part-time the programme usually takes 2 years.
However part time students may complete their programme of study over a period of up to 5 years.
Teaching and learning are delivered by a mix of academic and professional practice staff supporting the course in research and commercial areas of businesses.
This consists of lectures, small group seminars and debates, individual tutorial sessions, and where applicable company focused case studies and guest speakers from industries.
You will have access to a personal tutor, along with support from module tutors, and a final dissertation supervisor during your studies.
Assessment is carried out by a variety of methods, including coursework, group and team projects, industry focused case studies, online tests, final written examinations, business case preparations and presentations.
Science, Engineering, Technology or Management subject or background.
MSc Engineering Management requires:
Study a Masters in Engineering Management and lay the foundations for a rewarding career in your chosen field.
The changing landscape and demand for Global Engineers is growing and will continue to grow.
Our Engineering Management degree opens the possibilities of multiple routes of employment, re-deployment and advancing existing employment opportunities.
You will graduate with advanced project management knowledge, and develop as a numerate and project oriented thinker with skills that are immediately transferable to a diverse range of sectors.
Your independent project work, team projects, presentations, skills and learning experiences will help you acquire skills that are useful in a range of job roles.
There are also opportunities through our business, technology start-ups, innovation and enterprise and professional practice modules to prepare for any industry or aim to venture onto a start-up business.
Our Engineering Management degree offers a practical and project-based approach to learning and follows a syllabus designed in partnership with national and global businesses to enable and apply the skills they are seeking, enabling our students to make an impact when they graduate.
Some of the industries our past graduates have secured employment are:
Royal Holloway is located within the South East regional hub of electronics businesses, meaning you'll benefit from links to some of the top UK-based electronics companies.
Professor of Engineering Management (London Campus)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/english/creative-writing:
Creative Writing
This course allows you to develop your work as a writer to a professional level, going beyond the personal to write with an engaged sense of literary culture, its social role and contemporary practices.
The MA is designed for students with an established writing practice who are intending to develop their creative writing beyond first-degree level.
It is also designed for those students wishing to proceed to MPhil or PhD.
This MA is taught at our central London location, in the heart of literary Bloomsbury, putting you within walking distance of publishing houses, bookshops, major UK libraries and all of the other cultural attractions of central London.
You will take one of four distinct pathways:
While the pathways share a similar structure, they are taught separately so as to ensure you can work to a consistently high level.
Please see the Course structure section below for more details on each of these.
The MA ranks among the top creative-writing courses in the country and is taught by leading writers whose work encompasses a wide range of approaches and styles.
Our prizewinning, internationally successful alumni include the novelists Sarah Perry, Tahmima Anam, Jenni Fagan and Barney Norris; short-story writer and poet Eley Williams; and the poets Liz Berry, Kayo Chingonyi, Sam Riviere and Sophie Robinson.
You can see the work of some of our recent alumni by visiting www.bedfordsquarereview , our online showcase.
We offer a wide range of postgraduate scholarships to help with funding your studies.
We especially encourage eligible applicants to apply for one of the following:
Bedford Society Scholarship - £8,100 tuition fee reduction for Home or inter national students with, or expected to achieve, a First Class degree or equivalent.
Professor Barbara Raw Masters Scholarships for English - £10,000 scholarship for Home or international students with, or expected to achieve, at least a 2:1 or equivalent.
The Koppinen Family Scholarship - £10,000 tuition fee reduction for Home or international students with, or expected to achieve, at least a 2:1 or equivalent.
An important dimension of the MA is to give you the opportunity to begin serious work on a major research project that relates to your practice.
This could prepare you for an application for the practice-based PhD.
The Extended Essay (Creative Writing) is a crucial element in this preparation.
It will be researched and written mainly in the summer term and during the summer vacation.
The principle aim of the Extended Essay (Creative Writing) is to enable you to demonstrate your ability to reflect critically and theoretically, and to locate your practice in relation to contemporary writing practices.
You should draw on and develop skills acquired in the first two terms.
The subject of the extended essay is to be agreed with the supervisor.
You will choose one of the following pathways:
Split into two modules, you will learn how to structure and edit your prose to a publishable standard while also developing an expert sense of how best to draw on the personal, the actual and the imagination.
We have no house style, and encourage both experiment and rigour.
In developing your analytical and editorial skills, you will sharpen your self-criticism.
The content of the workshops will be dictated by the presentations of work in progress by the members of the group, and by the critical dialogue that develops from these presentations.
Your tutor will draw up a schedule for this and work will be circulated in advance.
You will read and annotate this work and come to class ready to discuss it.
Reading of literary exempla and extracts will also feed into workshop discussions.
Your tutor may set exercises or additional advance reading, and you will receive intensive feedback supported by individual tutorials.
Split into two modules,This pathway is for writers of all kinds of poetry, who are focused on publication on the page.
You will learn how to locate and refine your personal poetics, and how to develop a poem to its fullest potential.
You will be taught how to revise and edit a poem, how to sustain a writing practice, and how to locate your poetry within a broader literary context.
The workshop welcomes all styles and approaches to poetry focused on publication on the page.
Split into two modules, this pathway foregrounds the writing in an expanded field of contemporary poetic practice.
It offers a consideration of contemporary trends in innovative and experimental poetry: redefinitions of lyric writing, bookworks, visual poetics, performance, sound, conceptual writing, digital poetics and site-specific work.
You will develop, and reflect on, your own practice in the context of an understanding of contemporary experimental practice in poetry from the UK and North America, and consider how contemporary poetry and poetics intersect with such fields as conceptual art writing, sound art, live art, digital poetics, book arts, installed texts and writing in relation to site.
Split into two modules, you will explore the broad range of possibilities that literary non-fiction has to offer from memoir to manifesto, from the essay to the hybrid form.
You can experiment with the interface between fiction and memoir, and discover how to write out of the self without a form in mind.
You will be taught how to activate and deploy your research.
You will learn how to draw on these to develop original work of your own to publishable standard.
The workshop will include an exploration of the full range of approaches that non-fiction has to offer.
We will encourage you to explore them all, and to draw freely on them in your own work, taking an interdisciplinary approach.
We will also teach you how to use the tools and devices of fiction and poetry in the writing of non-fiction.
The workshop is also where you present work in progress, and you will receive intensive feedback supported by individual tutorials.
In the autumn term, you will have the opportunity to explore a range of literary non- fiction practices.
Working with exempla, which will be read in advance and discussed in class, you will undertake writing exercises, imitation and invention.
In the spring term, you will be presenting and critiquing your own creative work-in-progress while continuing to discuss other texts that cast light on the issues that arise.
You will work in small groups and with extensive individual attention.
We are looking for people who will flourish from working intensively within a rigorous and experimental but supportive environment.
In addition to workshops, you will take modules in Supplementary Discourses and Reading as a Writer, seminars designed to enhance your understanding of your own practice as well as the broader literary context in which you will be situating your work.
You will submit creative and critical coursework, and will undertake a final practical project and dissertation on practice.
In the summer term, you will receive individual supervision and will be offered a programme of events and masterclasses introducing you to leading writers, editors and agents who can advise on next steps.
Enhancing the experience, there are regular readings and talks given by students, staff and visiting writers.
The first portfolio of fiction or non-fiction or poetry (5,000 words prose, 12 pp poetry or equivalent agreed with your tutor) will be submitted for feedback at the beginning of the Spring Term.
This is a formative submission which means that it is not formally graded.
You will receive feedback and an indicative grade.
Under the guidance of your tutor, you then revise this work and resubmit it at the beginning of the Summer Term.
It is then a summative submission and is formally assessed.
The second portfolio (identical requirements) will be submitted for formal assessment, along with a revised first portfolio, at the beginning of the Summer Term.
The essay for Supplementary Discourses will be submitted for feedback at the beginning of the Spring Term.
This submission is summative and is formally assessed.
The essay for Reading as a Writer will be submitted for summative assessment at the beginning of the of Summer Term.
Students receive individual supervisions in the summer term towards the completion of these two submissions, which are made in September.
UK or equivalent degree in single or combined honours English.
Applicant will be required to provide a writing sample, prose of up to 5,000 words or at least 12 pages of poetry reflecting their chosen pathway: Fiction, New Prose Narratives, Poetry, Poetic Practice.
Additionally, a sample of critical writing of up to 1,000 words showing your ability to critically engage with a text.
A significant number of our Creative Writing students have become published authors or found work in publishing, the media and agencies.
We have an impressive record for placing graduates in academic jobs.
This course will give you a distinctive, creative edge in careers such as publishing, teaching, writing and journalism, administration and marketing.
Source: Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023
Source: Complete University Guide 2023

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/health-studies/msc-occupational-therapy-pre-registration:
MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre-reg)
UK fees * : £9,535
International/EU fees ** : £22,300
The pre-registration MSc Occupational Therapy course is delivered by the Department of Health Studies at Royal Holloway, University of London in collaboration with local partners.
The course has been validated by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) a regulatory body for Allied Health Professions (AHP) and accredited by the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT), a professional body for Occupational Therapists in the UK.
This two-year masters will give you the knowledge and practical skills that you need to develop a rewarding career as an occupational therapist in emerging global health roles and social prescribing roles in the UK and in internationals settings.
The course has a unique focus upon disaster management, sustainability, and global health, with an emphasis on placements throughout the degree to develop your practice-based experience and establish strong employment networks.
Occupational therapy has a valuable role in society helping people recover, maintain or improve healthy participation in life.
Working across disciplines in different sectors, it offers training in globally relevant and developing skills for disaster management and will deepen your understanding of the value of sustainability and the importance of the environment to health, wellbeing and social care.
You will acquire clinical and professional reasoning skills for occupational therapy in different settings, and learn the methods and skills needed to work with individual clients as well as community groups in the public and environmental health sectors.
Through teaching and practical placements, you will develop assessment and intervention skills for health promotion in physical and mental health with a variety of age groups, together with service evaluation and quality improvement skills.
On completion of the course you will have developed skills and experience for embarking on emerging global health roles and social prescribing roles in the UK and in international settings.
The Department of Health Studies is a hub for world-leading research, knowledge exchange and public engagement and you will be taught by international research leaders across a broad range of topics, particularly in the areas of occupational therapy, global health, long-term conditions and disease prevention.
Royal Holloway is a member of ENOTHE, the European Network of Occupational Therapy in Higher Education, and our OT students benefit as students of the member organisation.
Fitness to practise and health requirements
See below for full entry requirement, and all offers of a place are subject to satisfactory Occupational Health (OH) screening and clear Disclosure & Barring Service (DBS) check.
To be admitted and continue the course, students must be deemed medically fit for both practice and theory by the Occupational Health Department.
If you have any concerns about a health condition/issue and its impact on your ability to undertake the course, please contact the admissions team as early as possible in the application process.
Further information will be provided following the offer of a place.
Please note that Professional Bodies such as the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) have certain requirements regarding the health and character status of applicants and their ability to meet the required core professional competencies and to practise safely without direct supervision.
Please read the HCPC information to find out more.
Please ask us for advice and/or support as early as possible in the application process if you have any questions about this requirement.
An introduction to the occupational therapy profession's fundamental concepts and theoretical foundations, you will also gain insight into sustainability and global health issues.
The module aims to provide you with an understanding of the core values, behaviours, and skills required for occupational therapy practice, including reflection, communication, and teamwork.
In addition to these professional skills, you will explore AHP's model of sustainability and global health issues from an occupational perspective.
You’ll gain a comprehensive grounding in human sciences, including anatomy, physiology, psychology, and sociology.
The goal is to prepare you to apply this knowledge in clinical practice and contribute to the holistic well-being of clients.
You’ll explore the dynamic relationship between body structure and function, psychological and sociological factors, and occupational performance.
Digital literacies and health informatics will also be addressed in this module, using digital platform to enhance your learning.
Students will be encouraged to create a glossary of terms, especially for anatomy and physiological terms/ language.
This module equips you with the knowledge, skills, and capabilities needed for practice placement 1, a foundation placement.
You’ll complete mandatory training such as safeguarding adults/ children, moving and handling, unconscious bias, basic life support, etc.
and learn occupational therapy core practice skills such as effective communication, observation, active listening, interviewing, digital and written documentation, and reflection.
You’ll also link learnings from other modules with a focus on developing a foundation for occupational therapy practice.
You will be introduced to the Health and Care Professions Council’s (HCPC) revised standards of proficiency (2022), HCPC’s revised standards of conduct, performance and ethics (2023, effective from September 24) and RCOT’s professional standards for OT practice, conduct and ethics (2021).
This module provides the opportunity to undertake an 8-week part-time practice-based learning (19 hours/ week, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday).
These hours contribute to the 1000 hours of supervised practice placement experience required during the completion of the course as stated by RCOT, Learning and Development standards of pre-registration education (2019).
You will demonstrate OT core practice skills under the supervision of a practice educator in alignment with the learning outcomes and practice placement competencies.
The module will equip you with the knowledge, skills, and capabilities needed for practice placement 2, an exploratory placement.
You will continue to develop occupational therapy core practice skills such as therapeutic communication, observation, active listening, interviewing, digital and written documentation, and reflection.
In addition, students will explore occupational performance and OT processes further by learning new skills such as assessments, clinical reasoning, activity analysis, assistive technologies, equipment, and splinting.
An experiential learning and role plays will be used as a teaching method along with simulations for students to practice case studies.
You will continue to learn OT core practice skills and develop knowledge about the OT process under the supervision of a practice educator.
This advanced occupational therapy module examines key theories and concepts around disability, determinants of health, and barriers to participating in everyday occupations.
You’ll prepare for the effective transition from learner to autonomous practitioner, capable of being anticipatory to the needs of people and populations experiencing complex physical and/or mental health conditions.
You’ll develop knowledge of physical and mental health dysfunction at an advanced level.
You will apply and critically reflect on OT models/ frames of reference and continue to use the ‘Occupational therapy process’ to develop and consolidate skills in clinical reasoning and decision-making to formulate interventions.
You will learn to draw on appropriate knowledge and skills to inform practice and modify their practice as needed to take account of new developments, technologies and changing contexts.
The module will equip you with the knowledge, skills, and capabilities needed for practice placement 3, an intermediate placement.
Collaborative working is a crucial skill for occupational therapy professionals, and that is the primary focus of this module.
The module will involve simulated and real interdisciplinary practice with other health and social care professionals, as well as inquiry-based learning activities that concentrate on practice-oriented interdisciplinary scenarios.
This module provides the opportunity to undertake a 10-week full-time practice-based learning (37.5 hours/ week).
These hours contribute to the 1000 hours of supervised practice placement experience required during the course completion as stated by RCOT, Learning and Development standards of pre-registration education (2019).
You will be given half a day alternate week for placement-related study for full-time placements.
The primary focus is collaborative working.
In the linked academic module, you will engage in simulated and real interdisciplinary practice with other health and social care professionals and inquiry-based learning activities focusing on practice-oriented interdisciplinary scenarios.
This module examines the skills and values needed by OT professionals to work collaboratively to ensure seamless, client-centred delivery.
It will evaluate students' ability to use person-centred professional reasoning and multidisciplinary care planning approaches.
In this module, you’ll develop a solid grounding in the methodologies and skills  used across the course and for your final independent project.
These include project design and management, data collection, data analysis, and leadership and teamwork.
You’ll work independently and as part of an interdisciplinary team, taking a systems approach to Global and Planetary Health Challenges, in line with the Occupational Therapy research.
You will develop skills in engaging with different stakeholders such as OT practitioners, service users, families, marginalised groups, etc.
in the design and conduct of research, with guidance from a dissertation supervisor.
You may have opportunities to design an investigative project as part of a larger research project or group, with agreement from the module leader.
Your research will culminate in a dissertation/project report.
The module will equip you with the knowledge, skills, and capabilities needed for practice placement 4, an advanced placement.
This module develops your understanding of the relationship between research, practice, and policy, and how evidence-based practice is essential in therapies.
Throughout this module, you will develop a critical understanding of the different research paradigms, research designs, research methods, data collection, research leadership and analysis skills, and ethical issues associated with conducting research.
These skills will not only enhance your ability to critique evidence for practice but will also prepare you for service improvement or research projects you may undertake in your professional career.
During placement 4, students will collaborate with the practice educator to identify and develop a research project in practice that may impact patient and service outcomes.
You will be given half a day on an alternate week basis for placement-related study during this full-time placement.
The course is a two-year full-time masters degree that will be delivered through a combination of on-campus learning at our Egham campus in Surrey and placement opportunities.
Teaching and learning are mostly through lectures, seminars, hands-on practical skills, placement-specific workshops, study groups, essay consultations, oral presentations, and guided independent study.
Assessment of knowledge and understanding is typically by coursework assignments, examined essays, case study-based assignments, online tests and exercises, practice-based skills examinations, oral presentations, and the dissertation or long essay.
In addition, students may be involved in workshops and may produce various forms of creative or editorial work.
In the first year, the week will be divided into approximately two days on campus and two and a half days on placement.
Additionally, students will have self-directed study time integrated into all modules and placements.
Year one teaching will consist of two 30-credit modules focusing on human sciences and occupational science, 'Occupational Therapy with a Global Context' and 'Human Sciences and Occupational Performance' as well as two 15-credit modules linked to practice placements 1 and 2.
These will focus on developing core occupational therapy practice skills.
The second year will include two 15-credit modules focused on advanced clinical, research, and leadership skills required for occupational therapy practice across various settings, these are 'Research in practice (focused on PP4 preparation & research methods)' and 'Collaborative approach in practice (module focused on PP3)'.
Additionally, students will complete two 30-credit modules: 'Contemporary Practice in Occupational Therapy' and 'Research project in Occupational Therapy & Global Health', a research project aligned with occupational therapy and global health needs.
Practice Placements:
Students on the occupational therapy course are required to complete a minimum of 1000 hours over four practice placements in two years, in line with the requirements of the Royal College of Occupational Therapists and the World Federation of Occupational Therapists ( WFOT, 2016 ).
Each learning placement is linked to a 15-credit module: Occupation in Practice 1, Occupation in Practice 2, Collaborative Approach in Practice, and Research in Practice.
The primary responsibility for the assessment of students is held by the practice educator, who has undergone formal preparation and education, including regular updates, before the placement.
The Occupational Therapy Placement Lead will support the practice educator and student to ensure robust and consistent arrangements for the assessment of practice learning.
Practice-based learning placements are graded as pass/fail, and students can be reassessed a maximum of two times on non-consecutive placements.
Teaching and learning approaches:
The curriculum design is based on a spiral approach that combines constructivist and critical pedagogy.
Students will gain in-depth knowledge through active engagement in enquiry-based learning, independent research, and finding solutions to complex problems.
The curriculum's goal is to encourage students to critically examine local and global health issues, individual circumstances, and systemic barriers that limit participation, within an occupational science framework.
By understanding theory and practice, students will develop an appreciation of multiple perspectives and a sense of critical consciousness and professional identity.
The curriculum will help students develop practical skills and self-reflection, leading to professional transformation.
Students enrolled in this course are expected to engage in theoretical and practice-based learning, demonstrating high levels of personal motivation, emotional resilience, and academic performance.
The course aims to prepare graduates to work as occupational therapists who can promote individual well-being and a sense of belonging while addressing global health needs.
Teaching and learning on your course are closely informed by the active research of staff, particularly in the areas of occupational therapy, global health, long-term conditions, disease prevention, etc.
In general terms, the course provides an opportunity for you to develop and demonstrate the learning outcomes detailed herein.
The learning and assessment tasks are designed in alignment with HCPC standards of proficiencies (2023), HCPC standards of conduct, performance & ethics (2023) and RCOT’s Learning and development standards of pre-registration education to ensure that students can demonstrate professional behaviour, conduct, performance, and ethics during the course and meet the registration requirements as an occupational therapist.
Students will be offered a formative opportunity for all module assessments including academic and practice-based learning modules to maximise performance in their summative assessments.
UK 2:2 entry grade.
Some understanding of research methodology, taken within dissertation, final year project or as its own module will be required.
We invite students from a wide range of scientific, social science and humanities backgrounds to apply and be considered.
You will need to have completed an undergraduate degree in one of these fields to be eligible.
Other eligible backgrounds will be evaluated individually on a case-by-case basis.
Please note in order to meet RCOT standards of accreditation (standard 2.6), the university can only consider requests for recognition of prior learning in a maximum of one third of the total pre-registration course.
Applicants will be subject to an interview* and upon enrolment, applicants will be required to go through occupational health checks.
DBS and Occupational Health checks are mandatory admissions requirements for this course in alignment with Health and Care Professions Council standards of education and training for occupational therapists.
*Applicants will be invited for a virtual or face-to-face interview on campus.
Interview invitations and details of the interviews will be sent by email.
Applicants will take part in value-based interviews either in 1:1 or group format with academic staff from the course team, occupational therapy clinicians and Insight group members.
The Insight group member will be a service user or client who has access to health or social care services and may have used Occupational Therapy services to help with their physical/ mental health conditions.
We will be specifically looking at the applicant’s motivation, communication and interpersonal skills, teamworking skills, research project skills and any experience of working with people with health conditions etc.
This is a pre-reg masters leading to a professional qualification to practice Occupational Therapy and not a traditional MSc studies in Occupational Therapy.
Upon successful completion of your course, you will be eligible to apply to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Once registered, you will be able to practice as an occupational therapist in the UK and may apply for additional professional registration with the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT).
If you are an international student or want to practice in another country, you may need to complete additional country-specific registration requirements.
This is a unique course that is focused on disaster management, sustainability, and global health.
This course will equip you with clinical, p rofessional, research and other transferrable skills to work in different sectors and age groups.
You will have a variety of career development opportunities in health and social care within client-facing roles.
Occupational therapy qualifications provide a versatile foundation for a variety of rewarding careers, each offering the opportunity to make a significant impact on the lives of individuals and communities.
Here are some potential career options:
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £22,300
Other essential costs***: Please be aware that there will be additional costs such as travel and accommodation for placements, and occupational health related costs as required.
Please be aware that the university will support DBS (for Home students only) and the initial occupational health assessment costs; however, the university does not pay for vaccinations, further occupational health follow-ups, or additional assessments.
All applicants are advised to have their vaccinations completed prior to the start of the course and will be asked to submit evidence during onboarding.
Please contact the admissions team or Course Director for more information.
International applicants will be asked to submit a copy of the international police check and evidence of vaccinations.
There is an NHS Learning Support Fund available for this programme.
Course Lead for MSc (pre-reg) Occupational Therapy Senior Lecturer in Occupational Therapy
Profile

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/history/history:
Taking an MA in History at Royal Holloway offers maximum flexibility to tailor your degree to your own areas of interest.
Our internationally renowned academics, who are at the forefront of research and methodological innovation, will inspire and challenge you.
On graduation you will have a balance of theoretical, conceptual, practical and digital skills, making this degree for those looking to develop a career in areas that involve the professional creation, evaluation and dissemination of knowledge or wish to progress towards a PhD in History.
This MA is also suitable for anyone wishing to return to the academic study of history after a break in order to pursue a passion for a historical period, to improve intellectual and communication skills, or to start a new career.
Depending upon your individual interests your customised module can have either a broad, or a more concentrated focus.
The modules available cover Gender and Cultural history, British, European and World history, as well as Hellenic studies.
Within this flexible MA History Module, you can also opt to follow one of the following specialised pathways:
You will also take wide-ranging methodology and research skills modules which provide instruction in historical research, concepts and methods alongside developing a range of practical and communications skills that have proved valuable in the job market.
We are one of the largest and liveliest History departments in the UK, yet you will receive our individual attention and become part of our close-knit post graduate community.
Dinah and Jessica Nichols scholarship – £6,250 scholarship for Home or international students with, or expected to achieve, a First Class degree or equivalent.
Herringham scholarship – tuition fee reduction of £7,900 for Home or international students with, or expected to achieve, a First Class degree or equivalent.
Further scholarships are available for students applying to specific pathways within the MA History.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the range, scope and access to physical and digital archives, museums and resources.
You will learn how to evaluate and interpret documents, recordings and artefacts; how to construct a convincing historical narrative; and how to effectively communicate your findings in print, oral and digital formats.
You will interpret a variety of evidence including manuscript and printed texts, oral testimony, film and photography, and material objects, as well as look at some key interpretative methods such as oral and digital history.
You will learn from members of staff who are experts in their fields and from visiting speakers who are specialists and practitioners, examining a range of theoretical and methodological approaches to historical interpretation and its communication to academic and public audiences.
You will carry out an extended piece of research on a topic of your choice from within the wide range of research expertise available within the History Department.
You will be appointed a member of academic staff who will act as your supervisor, providing you with support and guidance.
You will produce a written report of between 12,500 and 15,000 words in length.
Optional modules may include:
In this module you will develop an understanding of the visual and material world of Victorian Britain between 1837 and 1901.
You will look at the key changes in art, photography, and architecture, as well as consumption, popular culture and the use of built space.
You will examine the role of the visual and the material in the construction of key narratives in Victorian economic, social and cultural history, including class, gender, and other forms of identity.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the role played by utopianism and dystopianism in the development of modern political thought, focussing primarily on the 18th to 20th centuries, including consideration for British, American, French and German sources, ideologies and communal movements.
You will look at attempts made to create vastly-improved societies, particularly in the socialist vein, as well as explanations for their failure, and where relevant, their success.
You will consider utopianism as a specific reaction to aspects of modernity, such as industrialisation, urban alienation, loss of traditional forms of belief and authority, and the growth of democracy and inequality.
You will also examine accounts of dystopia to contextualise modern despotisms in light of historical despotic practices and theories.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the history of  Muslims in the west.
You will look at the foundation of Islam as a world religion and its various denominations and traditions in western states from the 1800s through to the 21 st century.
You will consider contemporary issues such as identity, divided loyalties, gender relations, and perceptions held by the majority and non-Muslim community.
You will examine points of conflict between Muslims and wider society, including continuity, adjustment, and the war on terror.
Text: What can the intensive study of a small unit of analysis – an individual, a family, a community – tell us about wider historical phenomena?
That is the central question that underpins this module, which strives to explore and understand the gargantuan issues of race, ethnicity, and conflict in North America through a microhistorical approach.
It does so by focusing on rich and detailed examples (through the close reading of five monographs) that stretch from the colonial period of the eighteenth century to the early twentieth century and offer us the viewpoints of men and women, slave and free, Euro-Americans, African Americans, and Native Americans.
Through these intimate and diverse profiles we will endeavour to make sense of the turbulent history of race and conflict in North America from a multitude of perspectives.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the theoretical approaches to the Holocaust.
You will look at the ways in which historians' positions and use of sources are influenced by their theoretical and methodological assumptions.
You will examine the ways in which sociological and anthropological texts, testimony and memoir, film, art, photography, comics, museums and monuments relating to the Holocaust are handled.
You will consider the key theoretical explanations for the Holocaust, such as modernity and genocide, the politics of Holocaust memory, and contemporary discussions about memorialisation.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how in the mid-twentieth century, European states, societies and nations were reconstructed through the execution, imprisonment and castigation of compatriots.
You will look at the Nazi Volksgemeinschaft, Soviet gulags, and the brutal recasting of state and society via the creation of categories of the ‘anti-nation’, i.e persons without civil rights.
You will examine the genealogy of these forms in context of the politics, culture and society of Europe after the Great War.
You will consider the factors that facilitated or reinforced 'brutal categorisation', or were manifestations of it, including deep psychological fears of social and economic change, pathological ways of thinking, and segregationist forms of social and political organisation.
In this unique and ground-breaking module you will develop an understanding of the memory, impact and legacy of the crusades in the West and Muslim world since the medieval period.
You will look at the evolution and mutation of the crusading idea over (especially) the last 200 years, examining how and why the European colonial and imperial powers adopted crusading during the nineteenth century, and how the idea was used in World War 1 and by General Franco in the Spanish Civil War.
We will also consider how the idea has taken on, in the West, a more secular meaning.
You will analyse how crusade and jihad have been treated in the Muslim Near East, tracing cultural developments in theatre and poetry, as well as politics and religion, from the nineteenth to the present day, with particular emphasis on the figure of Saladin, the hero of the Muslim world for recovering Jerusalem from the crusaders.
We will see how his image, and the memory of the crusades has been used by Islamists such as Osama bin Laden and Arab Nationalists such as Nasser of Egypt, Saddam Hussein in Iraq, Hafez al-Asad of Syria and Yasser Arafat and the Palestinians.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how the crusading movement arose at a time of significant change for women.
You will look at the effects of the Gregorian Reform and contemporary societal change on women’s traditional roles.
You will examine how medieval historians used gendered language and moral tales to express their disapproval of women who took the cross, and the role of women in supporting crusader battles, often becoming the casualties of warfare.
You will consider the role of noble women in providing political stability through regency and marriage after the First Crusade in the Latin society established in the East, including the dramatic reign of Queen Melisende of Jerusalem, and the effects of crusading on women who remained in the West.
This module explores the history of feminism in Britain from the mid-nineteenth century to the present.
The module explores the varied formation, configuration and contestation of feminist politics and activism, encouraging students to look beyond well-worn narratives of ‘waves’ of feminism.
The module illuminates the development of feminist political thought, as well as diverse histories of activism and campaigning.
Core themes include: feminism and the state; body politics and sexualities; women’s work; family life; and feminist political thought.
Students are encouraged to develop their critical understanding of feminism through engagement with diverse primary material (including political texts, social surveys, photographs, film and oral histories) and via wide-ranging historical and multi-disciplinary scholarship.
This module examines the role of narrative in queer identity and queer life in modern and contemporary history.
The lives of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer) people have historically been silenced and marginalised within and by traditional dismodules.
Therefore, this module will examine the ways in which queer people have sought to represent and analyse their own experiences through the narrative-driven mediums of oral history, film, and fiction.
By using these ‘unconventional’ historical primary sources we will uncover how queer people have worked both with and against the grain of narrative in order to tell stories that are meaningful to them.
Using archetypes and common narrative tropes queer people have sought to situate their lives and their stories within wider cultural dismodules.
Nonetheless, we will also explore the concept of queer temporality, considering the potential for queer narratives to disrupt and challenge mainstream dismodules, even problematising chronology in the process.
We will also consider how the narrative of queerness is slowly being integrated into the historical record, and the implications of this shift.
This option explores recent approaches (particularly those of the last decade) to British imperial and colonial history, placing particular emphasis on those which advocate a transnational or comparative approach.
It allows students to develop an appreciation of the influence of postcolonial studies, geography, anthropology, and sociology on history writing in this context.
Seminar topics can include settler colonialism, colonial violence, the material culture of empire, the relationship between metropole and colony, sex and gender, race and racism, imperial networks and trajectories, law and empire, and attempts to reconnect cultural and economic interpretations of empire.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the history, impact and memory of forced movement of Jewish victims of the Nazi regime outside of the familiar places of ghettos and camps.
You will look at the transnational and translocal history of the Holocaust, beginning in the mid-1920s and concluding in the early 1950s, including the founding of Israel, the establishment of the Displaced Persons Act in the USA, the division of Germany, and the UN refugee convention.
You will examine the journeys and experiences of victims of forced movement and their emerging spatial agency in new locations, and also focus on the geopolitical contexts of the locations they moved through and stayed in.
You will consider emerging research in Holocaust studies on refugee diasporas, transnationalism, and landscapes of the Holocaust, and analyse literature on postwar Europe, humanitarian relief organizations, and histories of asylum seeking pertinent to Jewish, European and as relevant, refugee diasporas in regional locations of Africa, the Caribbean and South America.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the comparative approaches to the study of genocide.
You will examine comparative themes central to modern scholarship, such as modernity, state violence, and gender, and others arising from the phenomenon itself, such as child transfers and the use of memories of past violence to justify genocide in the present.
You will consider the complex causes and dynamics of genocide, with case studies analysing colonial genocide in North America and Australia, and the mass killings in Darfur at the beginning of the 21st century.
Assessment is carried out by a variety of methods including coursework and a dissertation.
UK Lower Class Honours degree (2:2) or equivalent in History or a related subject in the Humanities or Social Sciences.
Applicants come from a diverse range of backgrounds and we accept a broad range of qualifications (including first degrees in subjects other than History).
An interview and sample essay may be required if we would like more information upon which to base a decision.
Applicants unable to attend an interview, such as overseas students, will be interviewed by telephone.
Our Careers team will work with you to enhance your employability and prepare you for the choices ahead.
Their support doesn’t end when you graduate; you can access the service for up to two years after graduation.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/information-security/information-security:
International/EU fees ** : £31,100
Information Security with a Year in Industry
International / EU fees ** : £31,100
The creation, transmission and storage of huge volumes of electronic data is one of the defining features of our age.
Whilst these technologies bring us untold benefits, they also expose businesses, governments and individuals to repeated threats, such as fraud through data manipulation, deliberate sabotage and blackmail.
As a result, businesses, governments and individuals around the world rely on the expertise and innovations of information security specialists, without which global communications systems would grind to a halt.
Want to join this expanding field and learn from the very best?
Our flagship Information Security programme was the first of its kind in the world.
It is certified by GCHQ, the UK Government Communications Headquarters, and taught by academics and industrial partners in one of the largest and most established Information Security Groups in the world.
We are a UK Academic Centre of Excellence for cyber security research, and an Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) Centre for Doctoral Training in cyber security.
We work closely with industry, and much of our curriculum and research is informed and audited by the industry itself.
Our teachers are specialists in the field, with backgrounds in computer science, engineering, mathematics, statistics and the social sciences.
Our broad curriculum encompasses cryptography, fraud detection, system security, network security, device security and the study of how security itself should be managed.
You will learn about the technical, legal and commercial aspects of the industry and have the chance to complete a supervised dissertation on a topic of your choice.
In a typical year you could benefit from lectures and seminars given by as many as 50 different guest speakers.
You will also have access to our virtualisation software, for experimenting with network security settings and ideas, as well as to our Penetration Testing Laboratory and industry-sponsored Smart Card Centre.
We offer a friendly, supportive learning environment and you will have a dedicated personal adviser to guide you through your studies.
The skills you gain will open up a range of high-level career options and provide a solid foundation if you wish to progress to a PhD.
Our graduates are in demand for their cutting-edge grasp of the field as well as their technical expertise and transferrable skills such as data handling, analysis, problem solving and research.
The programme can be completed in one year full-time, two years part-time, three to five years through Continuous Professional Development (CPD).
You will carry out a major individual piece of work.
It can be of academic nature focussing on a specific area of information security, or may document the ability to deal with a practical aspect of information security.
You will produce a well-structured report of between 10,000 and 20,000 words, with introduction, motivation, analysis and relevant references to existing work.
In this module you will develop an understanding of legal and regulatory risk management in the field of information security and secure e-commerce.
You will look at legal obligations and liabilities between private parties, and the implications of government regulations for corporate risk management.
You will examine law regulation and liability, voluntary obligations, legal treatment of dematerialised documents and problems of form, involuntary obligations such as negligence, understanding and managing multi-jurisdiction legal and regulatory risk where the laws of several countries apply simultaneously, and the legal treatment of electronic and digital signature systems.
You will also consider intellectual property and associated risks, and the basics of data protection and privacy law.
In this module you will develop an understanding of computer crime and its history, looking at legal measures such as computer misuse, data protection, criminal damage, software piracy, forgery, and investigative powers.
You will examine case studies with emphasis on investigations into hacking, computer misuse and forensics, considering malware such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks and trojan horses.
You will also gain an insight into issues that may arise in the future for example, the expansion of the internet, pornography, unsuitable material, and social engineering.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the applications of smart cards and security tokens and their use as assets in cyber security.
You will look at the constituent components of common systems, analysing strengths and weaknesses in their manufacture and potential risks and security safeguards.
You will consider the range of campabilities of SIM cards in smartphones and the main standards and applications of smarts cards for banking and finance.
You will also examine the role of embedded smart card and RFID technology for passports, identity cards, and satellite TV, and the security measures that have protected past and current cards.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the cultural, societal, political, psychological, and ethical implications of information security and privacy.
You will explore the relationships between people and information systems from the perspective of security and privacy.
You will critically reflect upon different methodologies that may assist security professionals in developing approaches to ensure that individuals make informed decisions about security and privacy.
Sessions will be delivered by a combination of security and privacy practitioners, information managers and academics and you will be encouraged to actively engage in class discussions.
We use a range of teaching methods, including seminars, lectures and practical lab work.
There is a strong focus on small group teaching.
The programme has a flexible, modular structure, combining a supervised dissertation and mandatory courses that together make up 120 of the 180 credits required to pass, with a range of optional modules on specialist topics, worth 20 credits each.
Assessment is through a combination of end-of-year examinations sat in May or June and the written dissertation, which has to be submitted in September.
UK Honours degree or equivalent in any subject.
By the end of this programme you will possess the knowledge and skills to pursue a career as a cybersecurity professional, and an ideal basis for moving on to further postgraduate research if you prefer.
You will have an advanced knowledge and understanding of the latest breakthroughs and techniques, as well as key challenges and opportunities in the field.
This programme will also give you valuable transferable skills such as advanced IT skills, data handling, analysis, research, communication, problem solving, time management, adaptability and self-motivation.
Our graduates are highly employable and in recent years they have gone on to forge successful careers in a wide range of sectors, including: banking, telecommunications, security consultancies, the civil service, public utilities and the retail sector.
You will be assigned a personal advisor to guide you through your studies and advise you on further postgraduate opportunities.
The campus Careers team will be on hand to offer advice and guidance on your chosen career and runs regular sessions on finding summer internships or vacation employment and securing employment after graduation.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £31,100
This course is accredited by the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) .
Administrative Team: +44 (0)1784 27 6881

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/law-and-criminology/terrorism-and-counter-terrorism-studies:
Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies
How do we know what terrorism is?
Can counter-terrorism itself produce the conditions of terrorism?
What are the key terrorist threats, and why do people join terrorist groups?
If you're interested in the answers to these questions, and many more, this programme is for you.
Our MSc Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies degree, which is taught at our central London campus, is designed for students who wish to get an interdisciplinary understanding of individual and organisational involvement in terrorism, coupled with an understanding of national and international approaches to counter-terrorism and countering violent extremism (CVE).
Studying this degree is a unique opportunity to work with our expert teaching team, which includes Dr Elizabeth Pearson, Dr Anthony Richards, Professor Andrew Silke, Dr Andrew Whiting and Dr Akil Awan.
Read more here .
You can also see what former students thought of the course .
This programme is ideal for those seeking to develop a research career in terrorism and counter-terrorism studies - or, if you are are already working in, or wish to work in, the security, tech or policy sectors.
Previous professional students, for instance, have joined us from backgrounds including policing and Prevent.
The interdisciplinary nature of this programme draws on the interlinks between criminology, law, psychology, international relations, and sociology.
Alongside the formal lectures and seminars, you will have the opportunity to hear from and engage with external guest speakers from the public and private sector, who will provide talks and briefings on a variety of career paths in the area of counter-terrorism.
The programme will be taught over one or two days each week.
The core modules listed below are all taught on our central London campus.
This module will challenge you to question what exactly terrorism is, and who can commit acts of terrorism.
You will consider the immediate and long-term aims of terrorist groups – and does terrorism ever ‘work’; is terrorism the result of root causes such as poverty and exclusion; is religious extremism a major cause of terrorism?
Alongside these and other questions, you will also address the emergence of ‘Critical Terrorism Studies’ and will deal with issues raised by scholars on both sides of the ‘critical/orthodoxy’ divide, and question whether or not this has had a positive impact on the development of this area of study
The module aims to provide you with an evidence-based understanding of the history and modern nature of counter-terrorism.
The module will focus on different forms of counter-terrorism and will provide a critical assessment of the effectiveness and flaws of different strategies and tactics as well as focus attention on several case studies to illustrate the role and impact of counter-terrorism policies and the lessons that can be learnt from them.
The history, context and impact of the various counter-terrorism initiatives will be explored, and trends and patterns identified.
States can respond to terrorism and low-intensity conflicts with a range of approaches and these will be explored and critically assessed.
The purpose of this dissertation is to provide you with the opportunity to engage in a significant independent research project.
You will choose the topic of the research.
However, it must focus on an area within the remit of the terrorism and counter-terrorism studies focus of the programme.
The dissertation must be an original, independent piece of research which can be either empirical or literature based in nature.
Prior to starting the dissertation you must have a research proposal accepted by the dissertation committee.
After your dissertation proposal has been accepted you will each be allocated a supervisor who will be able to give you guidance, feedback and support throughout the research process.
The latter three modules are 15 Credit optional modules offered from Politics, International Relations and Philosophy (PIRP).
These are offered at our Egham campus during daytime teaching.
This module examines the origins of political and state terror, starting with ancient examples like Ghengis Khan and Tamburlaine's city sackings.
It also explores more recent instances of state terror, such as Nazi Germany, Stalinist Russia, and Pol Pot's Cambodia.
The French Revolution's 'regime de terreur' is studied as a precursor to modern terrorism.
The module traces the evolution of terrorism from 19th-century anarchists and Fenians to anti-colonial movements in the 20th century.
Lastly, it explores lessons from the history of terrorism for understanding the phenomenon and shaping current responses to it.
The purpose of this module is to provide students with an in-depth understanding of the role which psychology can play in helping us to understand terrorist involvement.
Students will be assessing why people join, stay involved and ultimately leave terrorist groups.
Critically assessing the psychological evidence for radicalisation and deradicalisation.
This module will challenge students to consider whether or not the psychology of terrorist actors is any different from the psychology of non-terrorist actors.
In doing so students will be introduced to concepts and theories from a variety of areas of psychology that may apply to understanding terrorist engagement.
This module provides you with a contemporary appreciation, through a number of case studies, of terrorist groups and movements across the globe.
By the very nature of this module the content will be significantly updated year by year.
However, the aims and learning outcomes will be constant.
Using academic literature and research, you will gain an evidence-based understanding of terrorist ideologies, structures, tactics and targets and the impact that terrorist groups and networks have, both nationally and internationally.
These will be studied in the context of contemporary debates within terrorism – for example, are we really confronted by what has been called ‘new’ terrorism?
If so, what is new about it?
This module introduces you to how the area of security studies has evolved to include ever more transnational dynamics.
You will see how scholars have traditionally understood security and how the study of security has developed.
You will develop a theoretical and conceptual awareness of the practical issues and problems in Transnational Security Studies, exploring why security has become transnational.
You will also look at security communities, alliances and collective security; global security governance; and cyber warfare.
In this module you will examine the theories, concepts and issues surrounding the role of media in war and conflict in the early twenty-first century.
The post-9/11 global security situation and the 2003 Iraq war have prompted a marked increase in interest in questions concerning media, war and conflict, and you look at the relationships between media, governments, military, and audiences/publics, in light of old, new, and potential future security events.
You will develop an understanding of the theories of media effects in conflict situations, covering a number of important themes, including embedding, sanitisation, legitimacy, and terrorism and publicity.
You will explore the role of ethics, technology, and professional norms that inform war reporting, analysing a range of media with consideration for conceptual, theoretical and methodological issues in light of ongoing conflicts around the world.
In this module you will analyse the content and sources of change in defence policy during the post-Cold War era.
You will look at changes to the objectives of defence policy, military capabilities, force structures and doctrines of the world’s major military powers (the US, Britain, France, Germany, China and Russia).
In so doing, you will asses the extent to which these reforms have helped the state concerned to meet its central security challenges.
In addition, you will develop an understanding of the embedding of defence policies within regional and international institutions and the sources of defence cooperation.
You will also see the implications of non-state actors in defence, notably private military companies and non-governmental organisations.
You will take a number of taught units and complete a dissertation worth 60 credits.
You will be assessed through a mixture of reports, presentations, portfolios, peer assessment and a thesis.
Bachelor Upper Second Class Honours in Law, Criminology, Psychology, Politics or a related subject in Social Sciences.
For more information about country-specific entry requirements please see here .
Throughout the course you will have the opportunity to hear from and engage with external guest speakers from the public and private sectors, who will provide talks and briefings on a variety of career paths in the area of counter-terrorism.
Future career opportunities may include becoming a civil servant in the Home, or Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office; working within the UK's intelligence services; becoming an analyst with a security think-tank; or a role in one of the police services' anti-terrorism branches.
Alternatively, you may wish to complete a PhD and forge a career in academia.
Lecturer in Criminology

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/media-arts/producing-film-and-television:
Producing Film and Television
From start to finish producers are the driving force behind the film and television industry.
They generate new projects and ideas, secure finance, manage production and strategically market the result.
The producer’s role has been transformed by the advent of globalisation, digital technology and the multi-channel environment.
Now more than ever, the entertainment industries need creative leadership.
Our Masters offers aspiring producers the opportunity to acquire the creative and entrepreneurial skills required to enter the rapidly changing universe of film and television.
You will learn to create script ideas, work with writers and directors, manage a production thoroughly and market across platforms, we'll teach you how to navigate the financial and legal aspects of the industry, too.
The course is taught from our creative hub at our London location in Senate House, Russell Square.
Our proximity to the media industry means that we can draw upon professionals for outstanding master classes, industry panels and careers events.
Students are encouraged to attend The London Film Festival, MIPCOM, Berlin, and Cannes international festivals.
You will also try out interning at a production company or work on the crew of a professional production.
You will be taught by top production talent and practice what you learn by making Films and TV programmes.
Linda James leads the course teaching team, working alongside Sheryl Crown and David Thompson.
Between them, they have produced BAFTA award-winning dramas, and have been nominated for and won BAFTAs, Oscars, Golden Globes and Emmys in their own right.
You can find out more about the teaching staff and their expertise in the 'Teaching and Assessment' section below.
The course is also supported by many visiting industry professionals that have included: Charlie Pattinson, Gaby Tana, William Nicholson, William Boyd, Cameron McCracken, Tracey Scoffield and many others.
(For further information, see 'Teaching and Assessment below').
Through master classes, industry internships and alumni partnerships, students are provided with opportunities to network with international talent and expertise, as well as building links with current Royal Holloway students and academic partners.
You will take on one of either Masters’ Project or Independent Media Project and Essay
In this module you will develop an understanding of the role of the producer as the driving force in creating, managing and selling film and television products.
You will look at how the independent sector works, and consider how to programme and pitch ideas.
You will also examine approaches to working with creative talent.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to write an industry standard script report.
You will learn how to analyse both film and TV scripts, and produce reports that constructively engage writers with the process of script development.
You will consider the analysis of structure, character, dialogue, genre, and how to transfer feedback verbally.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to create and pitch ideas to film, television and new media executives and financiers.
You will learn the basics of script development, set procedure, scheduling, camera work, audio equipment and post-production.
You will consider how to develop and identify viable fiction projects and lead and manage the production of a short video, .
You will work with creative talent, writers, directors, casting agents, and key craft team members, and examine how to finance and market your short film.
You will put together a viable presentation package and pitch to a panel of industry professionals.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the global film and TV business.
You will learn how to plan and conceptualise the creation and management of a sustainable media enterprise.
You will examine the critical issues affecting the success or failure of film and television businesses, considering the role of financial planning in the life-cycle of visual media projects.
You will also explore the wider context of finance in the development, marketing and distribution of film and television to investors, partners and government bodies, with a focus on the challenges faced by business startups.
In this module you will develop an understanding of basic production accounting and the line management skills needed for film, TV and transmedia production.
You will learn how to set-up a production company and budget, schedule, manage cash flow, and supervise a quality fiction production.
You will consider how to manage 'below-the-line' deals on a drama production and identify financial issues and their implications for day-to-day management.
You will also examine how to manage a film crew and supervise the daily operations of a production team, and manage production costs, equipment and facility deals.
In this module you will develop an understanding of media marketing and promotion in film and television distribution and exhibition.
You will look at social media and new trends in the global marketing of films and media projects, including cross-platform marketing.
You will consider the fundamental principles of media law, including contract and intellectual property law, and examine issues of content and regulation.
This module offers the opportunity to test your learning, share your subject knowledge, and explore in detail a topic that interests you by conducting research and/or by developing concepts and projects in the context of the creative industries.
As the culmination of your masters degree, you will work under the guidance of a supervisor to produce and submit either a dissertation of between 13000-15000 words, or else an equivalent practice-as-research or professional project.
Assessment is carried out by a variety of methods including essays, script reports, treatments, pitching exercises, studio exercises, production papers, practical film-making, business reports and presentations.
Mike Dormer - Course Leader and teaches 'Producing Workshop'
Mike is a BAFTA award-winning drama producer and BBC Drama Commissioning Executive who brings more than 30 years’ experience in the UK Film and Television industry to teaching 'Producing Workshop'.
Sheryl Crown - teaches 'Role of the Producer' and 'Story Development'
Sheryl is a well-established Producer, with considerable experience of making high quality Films and Television, raising finance and managing public and private funds.
With a respected track record of collaboration with new and established writers, directors and producers, plus a forensic passion for script and story development, she is an Oscar and BAFTA winner and nominee, independent producer and executive producer.
David Thompson - teaches 'International Media Business'
As a producer and executive producer David has been responsible for over 150 film and TV projects, winning numerous awards including BAFTAS, Golden Globes and Emmys.
He was previously head of the feature film department of the BBC and now runs his own production company Origin Pictures.
David Thompson’s credits include Billy Elliot, Revolutionary Road, An Education,My Summer of Love , Fish Tank, Mandela and Catherine the Great.
He has worked with numerous directors including Paul Greengrass, Danny Boyle, Stephen Frears, Woody Allen, Sam Mendes, Stephen Daldry David Kronenberg , Andrea Arnold, Jane Campion and Pawl Pawlikowski.
The projects he has helped to develop have attracted major stars - Leonardo de Caprio, Mel Gibson, Scarlett Johannsen, Helen Mirren, Colin Firth, Naomie Harris, Daniel Craig, Judy Dench, Kate Winslet, Idris Elba, and Natalie Portman.
He has worked with many award winning writers like William Nicholson, Steven Knight, Lee Hall, Peter Morgan and Armando Ianucci.
He has worked with most of the major U.S and international film studios and tv companies, including Disney, HBO, SKY, Warner Bros, Amazon and Sony.
He has made backing new talent a particular focus of his work which is why he is now so committed to teaching part time at Royal Holloway.
Visiting industry speaker credits:
(Please note, speaker list is indicative and may be subject to change)
Charlie Pattinson is a Golden Globe and Bafta-winning television producer.
As CEO of TV company New Pictures he has produced programmes for the BBC, Channel 4, Netflix and Starz; prior to this he set up Company Pictures with George Faber in 1998, and grew it into one of the UK’s largest TV and film production companies.
Gaby Tana is an Academy Award-nominated film producer.
Under her banner Magnolia Mae Films, she’s produced features which have received international acclaim, such as Philomena and The Dig .
Gaby’s next film is a biopic about Katherine Parr, directed by Karim Ainouz and starring Michelle Williams.
William Nicholson is an Oscar and Bafta-winning screenwriter and playwright.
His film credits include Shadowlands , Gladiator , Tom Hooper’s Les Miserables , and most recently Hope Gap , which was also his directorial debut.
Bill is also a novelist and his popular children’s book trilogy Wind on Fire has sold millions of copies around the world.
William Boyd , award winning novelist and screenwriter.
His work for the screen includes Scoop , Chaplin , The Trench , Sword of Honour , Any Human Heart , Restless & Spy City .
Cameron McCracken is the Managing Director of Pathé UK.
He has co-produced or executive produced over 20 films including The Duke , Judy , Florence Foster Jenkins , Pride , The Queen , Suffragette and The Iron Lady .
Prior to Pathé, Cameron was Director of Business Affairs at British Screen from 1997 to 2000.
Tracey Scoffield is an Emmy and Gold Globe-winning drama and film producer.
Her company Turbine Studios most recently produced Steve McQueen’s TV anthology series Small Axe for the BBC and Amazon Prime.
Prior to this she was an executive producer at BBC Films, where her credits included Dirty Pretty Things and The Gathering Storm .
As part of the application candidates will also be required to submit a personal statement and a 500 word essay titled: "What film or television project would you like to produce if money was no object?".
You will need to include details such as demand in the market, the audience it is aimed at, the potential budget and how you would go about getting it made.
Applicants will be interviewed.
MA Producing Film and Television requires:
Our close links to the film and TV production industry make this a practical course – and one that gives you building blocks for your future.
While you're on the course, we'll encourage and guide you into work placements and internships.
Past students have secured placements with industry leading organisations including:
Graduates from the Department of Media Arts have gone on to work in independent television and film production, for broadcasters like the BBC and ITV, for distributors, exhibitors, talent agencies and entertainment lawyers.
Other essential costs***: Software cost of approximately £200 plus additional film production costs
Postgraduate Administrator
+44 (0)1784 414629

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/psychology/clinical-psychology:
Clinical Psychology
Psychology explores many aspects of the human condition including our thoughts, feelings, decisions and behaviours.
Study Clinical Psychology at Royal Holloway, University of London and you’ll develop a deep understanding of the treatment and assessment of mental illness and behavioural problems.
This comprehensive programme will provide you with the knowledge and skills you need to pursue a career in a mental health setting or mental health research, with topics including clinical assessment, the principles of evidence-based treatments and wellbeing.
You’ll learn from our enthusiastic expert academics, with a mix of seminar, lecture and research-based teaching providing exciting academic variety.
You’ll graduate with a range of transferable skills to take into further PhD study or your future career, including advanced research training and communication skills for working with clients, patients, and families.
We provide excellent employability skills for graduates.
Our notable alumni include leading bioscience innovator Professor Jackie Hunter CBE, Terrence Higgins Trust founder Dr Rupert Whitaker, and Dr Christian Jarrett – author of The Rough Guide to Psychology.
The module will cover a variety of topics in adjustment and well-being delivered by experts on the topics and practitioners.
These will include measurement of well-being, antecedents and consequences of well-being, ill-being and health psychology.
Some example topics include materialism and well-being, delusions, and adjustment of personal values to life transitions.
In this module you will develop an understanding of many of the key research techniques that are used in social, health, forensic, clinical and developmental research.
You will look at both qualitative and quantitative research techniques, covering forms of data collection such as questionnaires, online data, interviewing and focus groups, observational research methods, computerised cognitive measures, and social neuroscience techniques.
You will also consider other forms of data analysis, including grounded theory, interpretative phenomenological analysis, thematic analysis, content analysis, and the use of secondary data and meta-analytic and systematic review techniques.
In this module you will explore instruments that mental health professionals use to assess patients, as well as assess evidence-based treatment approaches to disorders.
In this module you will explore the concepts, theories and professional practices that clinical and counselling psychologists must be aware of, such as increasing awareness of health care structures (e.g.
NHS), concerns surrounding the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, controversies in diagnosis, and communication skills.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the main statistical methods used in psychology research.
You will look at basic descriptive statistics before covering more complex techniques, including analysis of variance, analysis of covariance, correlation analysis, and simple and multiple regression.
You will examine advanced statistical methods, such as structural equation modelling and factor analysis.
You will gain hands-on experience in applying these methods of analyses to actual datasets and problems using statistical software, considering their respective strengths and weaknesses, and what type of problems each approach is best suited to address.
You will be provided with the possibility to complete a systematic review or to carry out an original piece of research on a topic of your interest within the broad area of clinical psychology.
You will be given the necessary support during the conception, conduct and writing up of your research.
The module aims to help students understand the challenges but also benefits of conducting research in applied settings, as compared to laboratory settings.
After discussing general opportunities and challenges in conducting psychological research in applied settings, the module will cover a variety of topics in applied psychology delivered by experts on the topics and practitioners.
These may vary each year, but can include selected topics in organisational psychology, forensic psychology, educational psychology, counselling psychology, and applied social psychology.
Some example topics include eyewitness testimony in the court, parenting interventions, and understanding donations.
Seminars will adopt an interactive, discussion-based style, focused around a topical research paper or a wider issue relating to psychological science.
The topics for discussion will be drawn from a broad range of research areas, including neuroscience, cognition and social psychology.
Many of the discussions will be student-led, and the topics for these sessions will reflect individual students’ particular areas of interest.
The taught module will be complemented by a series of departmental research seminars, through which students will be able to hear about the latest research from a variety of external speakers.
In this module you will develop an understanding of cognitive, social and neuroscience approaches to forensic psychology.
You will look at social approaches to different victim and offender groups, the neuroscience of psychopathy, interviewing victims, physiological approaches to deception, detection, and the role of eyewitness identifications in the legal system.
You will also examine receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and confidence relationships as they apply to decision makers and estimator and system variables.
The placement is designed to you the opportunity to gain practical work experience to enhance your CV for future applications to jobs in the health sector or to undertake PhD-level study.
You will be responsible for securing a placement that aligns with your individual career plans, but will provided with support by the Department of Psychology and the Careers and Employability Service.
Teaching and learning is delivered primarily through sessions lasting between one-and-a-half and five hours.
These typically combine seminar discussions with practical exploration or workshops.
Where possible, these will be student-led, with participants encouraged to devise exercises engaging with the relevant issues and to direct fellow-students in these experiments.
We place emphasis on group discussion and the development of independent thought and analysis appropriate to carry out an independent piece of research of high quality, in an area of interest to you.
In some contributing modules, you will give oral presentations which form part of the formative assessment.
Summative assessment is usually by extended essay, although there are written exams for modules focussing on methodology and statistics.
Psychology or a related Social Science subject with evidence of having taken and passed methodological and statistics training at degree level.
Graduate with a Masters degree in Clinical Psychology at Royal Holloway, University of London and you’ll be well-placed to progress to further postgraduate study or to a rewarding career in mental health.
Please note that this MSc does not lead to a professional qualification as a clinical psychologist, nor does this module guarantee you entry onto a Clinical Psychology doctorate programme.
Royal Holloway's Department of Psychology is one of the most highly regarded psychology departments in the country, and we work hard to provide our students with the help and advice they need to achieve their postgraduate career ambitions.
We hold annual ‘Meet the Grads’ events where students can get help and advice from our successful alumni, while a dedicated online forum provides students with the information they need to prepare for postgraduate life.
We also have close links with local organisations including the Macular Society, Southern Addictions Advisory Service and Bishop Creighton House to provide rewarding placement opportunities.
School Helpdesk
+44 (0)1784 276884

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/psychology/applied-neuroscience:
Applied Neuroscience
UK fees * : £18,000
Our MSc Applied Neuroscience course gives a unique insight into neuroscience in real world settings.
Studying latest neuroscience methods, you’ll learn alongside our leading neuroscientists with contributions from professional experts, and have access to the Psychology department’s excellent neuroscience facilities.
You’ll learn to conduct applied neuroscience research projects and acquire practical, hands on experience for your future career.
Students bring their learning to life through practice-based workshops to gain hands-on experience using cutting-edge technology such as TMS, VR, eye tracking, FMRI, and across the board EEG in our campus based laboratories.
You'll develop further expertise by taking part in experiments with neuroscience based equipment, often with industry involvement.
The course is linked with our world-class research expertise in Psychology, and cross-disciplinary research community in Artificial Intelligence (AI), exploring areas of human interaction with digital media, technology, design and psychology.
These are exciting and topical areas, making this course up to date and relevant to society.
The Department of Psychology at Royal Holloway has been placed joint third in the country for research quality following the publication of the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021 results ranked by subject, The Times Higher Education).
This outstanding result reinforces the importance and value of the department’s research to society and the economy.
Join us as a postgraduate student on MSc Applied Neuroscience and you'll get the inspiration and support you need to achieve your academic and career goals in this innovative and exciting field.
On this course you will:
This module will provide you with the possibility to gain some hands-on experience of neuroscience techniques that can be used in applied contexts, such as EEG, fMRI and eye-tracking.
You will learn how to collect data and analyse the data in a meaningful way to gain insight into human neural processes underlying perceptions, decisions and emotions, within an experimental design.
Throughout the module, you will make use of different programming languages to deal with the different types of neuroscientific data.
This module will introduce you to the latest research concerning the neuroscience of emotion and decision making, train students to interpret and evaluate the research in this area, and train students to apply their knowledge to the analysis of real-life examples Lectures topics could include, for example: comparisons between human and animal models of emotion; emotion regulation; the links between emotion and decision making; neuroeconomics; the neural basis of understanding others; cooperative and competitive decision making.
This module will a) introduce you to the latest research concerning the possible real-world applications of neuroscience research and techniques, b) train you to interpret and evaluate both the research in this area and some broader claims relating to applied neuroscience, and c) train you to apply this knowledge to the analysis of real-world problems.
This module will provide students with the possibility to carry out a piece of empirical research on a topic of their interest within the broad area of applied neuroscience.
Students will decide on a topic for their project in conjunction with their academic supervisors.
Care will be taken to match students’ and supervisors’ interests as closely as possible.
The project will be in the broad area of applied neuroscience using a neuroscientific technique such as eye tracking, VR, EEG, or fMRI for example.
This module covers the social psychology of intergroup and interpersonal processes.
As such, the course content is situated broadly in applied social psychology.
It introduces theories and findings in this area and uses them to explain real-life phenomena.
Lectures will cover issues like, for example, cross-cultural psychology, of intergroup relations, ethnic identity, conflict resolution, immigration, and interpersonal relationships.
Teaching is delivered primarily through sessions lasting between one and five hours.
These typically combine seminar discussions with practical workshops to develop statistical, methodological and analytical experience.
Where possible, these will be student-led, with participants encouraged to devise exercises engaging with the relevant issues and to direct fellow students in these experiments.
Summative assessment is usually by written assignment, with an emphasis on developing and demonstrating skills relevant in real-world settings (eg posters, grant proposals, podcasts).
There are also some written exams, particularly for modules focussing on methodology and statistics.
Psychology or Natural Science subject (Biology, Neuroscience, Cognitive Science, Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics) Can consider degrees in a related Social Science with evidence of having taken and passed methodological or statistics training at degree level.
Psychology or Natural Science subject (Biology, Neuroscience, Cognitive Science, Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics)
Can consider degrees in a related Social Science with evidence of having taken and passed methodological or statistics training at degree level.
Graduates in Applied Neuroscience at Royal Holloway are well equipped to progress to further PhD study and to careers in applied settings in commercial and governmental organisations.
You will graduate with a desirable MSc degree from one of the UK’s top psychology departments and develop a range of transferable skills including analysis and interpretation of complex data, insight into human behaviour and neural processes, critical reading, conducting and managing research projects and scientific reporting.
You will have the skills to work in areas such as Data Science, User Experience, Interaction Design, as well as Neuroscience research, using neuroscience based insights and conducting research using cutting edge methods of studying the brain.
Home (UK) students tuition fee per year*: £18,000

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/biological-sciences/biological-sciences:
MSc by Research
UK fees * : £8,006 †
International/EU fees ** : £31,700†
Refine your research skills and develop advanced scientific and technical expertise with a one-year Masters by Research degree in Biological Sciences.
Choose your preferred research area from our department's active research programme based on four overlapping research themes: Healthy Ageing and Molecular Medicine; Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services; Sustainable Engineering and Food Security; and Data and Technology Resources.
You will learn alongside academic staff working at the frontiers of knowledge in their particular fields.
Find out more about our Research Projects .
You’ll contribute to a renowned research culture, with Royal Holloway, University of London Department of Biological Sciences ranked 26th in the UK for world-leading and internationally excellent research by the Research Excellence Framework 2021 (THE REF institutions ranked by subject 2022).
The Department of Biological Sciences is proud that Professor Mark JF Brown has recently been awarded Outstanding Research Supervisor of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards.
Read more
Study in our state-of-the-art laboratories, providing advanced equipment for bioinformatics, mass spectrometry and protein and gene sequencing.
You’ll have access to on-site woodland and meadow field testing facilities, and our campus is within easy reach of sites of special scientific interest, including Windsor Great Park, Box Hill and Chobham Common.
Gain the generic skills and hands-on experience you need to continue into further study as a PhD student, or progress towards a research career in a variety of different sectors.
Find out more about applying here.
Your understanding and interpretation of novel scientific data will be assessed in the form of a thesis, while your training in transferable skills (provided by the taught component) will be assessed by coursework.
Biology, Biochemistry or a related discipline.
Normally we require a UK 2:2 (Honours) or equivalent in Biology, Biochemistry or a related discipline.
However, individual supervisors might request a higher degree classification.
All Postgraduate Research degrees (i.e.
PhD and Masters by Research) require:
A Masters in Biological Sciences at Royal Holloway, University of London is ideal for students who want to continue to further PhD study or pursue a research career in a variety of sectors.
You will develop a range of advances research techniques as well as a range of transferrable skills, including experimental design and data analysis, as well as presenting research findings to an audience in the form of a conference presentation.
Our Masters graduates have gone on to secure PhD positions at Royal Holloway, the University of Oxford, Imperial College London, the Max Plank Institute, Germany, St George's University of London and MRC Harwell, as well as prestigious careers including Senior Keeper in Herpetology at London Zoo and Species Recovery Officer at Plantlife International.
Home (UK) students tuition fee per year*: £8,006 †
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £31,700†
† Please note that this course fee is inclusive of a £3,000 bench fee.
We adopt the minimum fee level recommended by the UK Research Councils for the Home tuition fee.
Each year, the fee level is adjusted in line with inflation (currently, the measure used is the Treasury GDP deflator).
Fees displayed here are therefore subject to change and are usually confirmed in the spring of the year of entry.
For more information on the Research Council Indicative Fee please see the UKRI website.
Reader in Plant Molecular Biology
Profile | +44 1784 414698

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/business-and-management/management-phd:
Management
PhD
UK fees * : £5,006
International/EU fees ** : £25,500
We undertake research at the cutting edge of management thinking through our own specialist themes and subject groups.
We frequently collaborate with industrial and commercial research partners, as well as academic colleagues at other institutions (both in the UK and further afield) and in other departments within Royal Holloway.
Group members are also active within the academic research community, making regular contributions at conferences and in the pages of the leading academic journals in their fields.
The School of Business and Management is associated with the pursuit of research excellence across three research centres and three research themes.
Whilst the majority of students pursue qualitative methods some students pursue mixed methods or quantitative methods.
Information on how to apply for a PhD at the School of Business and Management can be found on this Postgraduate Research page .
Colleagues in the School of Business and Management pursue research as members of one or more of our research centres or theme groups.
A full list of our researchers, publications and projects can be found here .
Full-time PhD students have an annual review and also a semi-annual review (SAR) every year.
Part-time PhD students have an annual review.
The SARs and annual reviews are opportunities to reflect upon progress and achievements as well as to set goals for the coming six to twelve months.
Students are required to attend and pass three research methods courses as part of the upgrade process to the PhD route.
Specifically, students need to attend and pass Philosophy of Methods, Qualitative Research Methods for Doctoral Students, and Quantitative Research Methods for Doctoral Students.
The upgrade time scale and process is in accordance with Royal Holloway processes and guidelines.
We are committed to attracting high-quality PhD students and as such you will need to meet our entry criteria.
These are: Usually an undergraduate degree at 2.1 level and a Masters with Merit A high-quality research proposal A credible personal statement Strong performance at interview Before applying we recommend securing a supervisor in order to apply for your research project.
We advise getting in touch with the Director of Postgraduate Education for your chosen research degree to inquire whether there is any other additional material they require you to submit in your application
These are:
Before applying we recommend securing a supervisor in order to apply for your research project.
For more information about country-specific entry requirements for your country please see here .
Graduating PhD students have gone on to junior academic positions with the following institutions:
They have also progressed to mid-level academic positions, such as Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor, with the following institutions:
Some have been appointed to high-level professorial positions with the following institutions:
Home (UK) students tuition fee per year*: £5,006
EU and International students tuition fee per year**: £25,500
Other essential costs***: There no additional costs in excess of £50 per item.
…How do I pay for it?
* Please note that for research courses, we adopt the minimum fee level recommended by the UK Research Councils for the Home tuition fee.
Royal Holloway reserves the right to increase fees for all students annually.
Be aware that tuition fees can rise during your degree (if longer than one year’s duration), and that this also means that the overall cost of studying the course part-time will be slightly higher than studying it full-time in one year.
For further information see fees and funding and the terms and conditions .
*** These estimated costs relate to studying this particular degree at Royal Holloway during the 2025/26 academic year and are included as a guide.
The School offers a limited number of merit-based scholarships that contribute towards tuition fees and/or maintenance.
These scholarships are highly competitive.
Applicants are expected to have an outstanding track record of academic achievements and research potential.
For more information about Scholarships please check the Management Postgraduate Research page here .
Reader in International Business and Entrepreneurship
Director of Postgraduate Research Education (DPE)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/drama-theatre-and-dance/drama-theatre-and-dance-ma-by-research:
Drama, Theatre and Dance MA by Research
MA by Research
International/EU fees ** : £21,500
The MA by Research (Drama, Theatre and Dance) is a flexible programme that allows you to undertake in-depth study (both full and part-time), under the supervision of international experts, on a broad range of subjects, including cultural studies, drama, theatre studies, dance studies, performance studies or comparative topics.
The core of the MA by Research is a 25,000-word dissertation on a subject of your choosing, intended to give you the scope to explore your area of interest in real depth and to develop sophisticated critical and analytical research and writing skills.
You will also complete a research-focused, taught course, ‘Ways of Working’ which will equip you with a range of methodological and skills-based approaches to the study of the arts, enabling you to articulate, refine and persistently test your approach to your chosen topic within this broader critical framework, and to enhance your profile and employability as a researcher.
You will take one taught component and complete a dissertation.
This is a programme of research training open to all postgraduate researchers in the School of Performing and Digital Arts.
It provides you with knowledge of a range of methodological and skills-based approaches to the study of the arts.
It refines your theoretical understanding and provides you with the methodological tools to proceed to PhD research if you so wish.
A 25,000 word dissertation on a subject of your choice.
You will receive one-to-one support from your supervisor.
The dissertation is examined by a Visiting Examiner and includes a Viva Voce examination.
Normally we require a UK 2:1 (Honours) or equivalent in relevant subjects but we will consider high 2:2 or relevant work experience.
Candidates with professional qualifications in an associated area may be considered.
Where a ‘good 2:2’ is considered, we would normally define this as reflecting a profile of 57% or above.
If you are interested in applying, please visit our how to apply page where you can find more information on the application process.
Before applying we recommend securing a supervisor in order to apply for your chosen research project.
Please submit the following supporting information when making your application: a short research proposal a sample of written work in English, which should take the form of a short academic essay or review of a theatre production (2,000 words in total) a copy of the degree certificate/transcript from your undergraduate degree (this can be a transcript of your progress so far if you have not yet completed it) a copy of your English language qualification (if English is not your first language) - if you have not completed an IELTS or recognised test yet, you can submit your application without it and then forward your results once they are available a personal statement explaining your motivation for studying your chosen programme one academic reference Please note that we will not be able to consider applications until we have received the writing samples.
We may invite suitable applicants for an interview, either in person or online.
Please note that we will not be able to consider applications until we have received the writing samples.
Our graduates are highly employable and recent years they have entered many different fields, including international management, consultancy, sales and marketing, media and publishing, banking, the arts, politics, the Civil Service, teaching, and travel and tourism.
This course also equips you with a solid foundation for continued PhD studies.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £21,500

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/earth-sciences/earth-sciences:
International/EU fees ** : £28,700†
Earth Sciences PhD
UK fees * : £4,786†
International / EU fees ** : £28,700†
The MSc by Research in Earth Sciences offers an opportunity to join our thriving research community to refine your research skills and develop advanced scientific and technical knowledge through an original research project supervised by internationally-renowned academic research staff.
You’ll contribute to the research culture in the Earth Sciences department at Royal Holloway, a leading centre for multidisciplinary research, with a wide range of industrial and commercial collaborations and partners within the energy, environmental and extraction sectors.
The Department of Earth Sciences is one of the leading centres of research and teaching in the UK.
88% of our research is rated world-leading or internationally excellent in the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021).
Graduates are invited to contact individual members of staff in the department in the first instance to discuss potential research projects.
Your research topic will be developed into a project proposal through discussion with your chosen supervisor from the full breadth of the themes covered by the three Research Centres within the Department.
You will have access to world-class facilities in high-quality, custom-designed laboratories for conducting research and training activities in air quality monitoring; analogue modelling; aerosol studies; computing; greenhouse gas measurements and analysis, Laser ablation-ICP-MS analysis, light stable isotope analysis; mineral separation; multi-collector-ICP-MS analysis; palaeobiology; rock crushing; scanning electron microscopy; sea-Ice studies; wet geochemical analysis; X-ray diffraction and X-ray fluorescence.
You’ll develop skills in experimental design, data collection, analysis and interpretation, and analytical methods, as well as transferable team working and presentation skills.
You may also be encouraged to present your work at national and international conferences, and to prepare your work for publication in peer-reviewed scientific journals.
The MSc by Research will help you to develop valuable vocational skills and acquire industry insight to prepare for a career in a wide range of research and employment sectors, or to gain experience in original research prior to taking a full PhD programme.
Find out more about staff and their research interests and how to apply here:
Earth Sciences - Postgraduate research
The Earth Sciences MSc by Research degree culminates in a supervised independent research project presented in the form of a thesis, which is assessed by an internal and external examiner, and an oral presentation at the annual Postgraduate Research Student Conference.
During your studies you may attend taught courses if they are relevant to your training needs, from taught masters courses offered by the department, MSc Environmental Diagnosis and Management, and MSc Energy Geosciences, or from specialist 3rd or 4th year undergraduate taught modules if appropriate.
You can also attend Earth Sciences research seminars to better understand a wide range of scientific issues beyond your individual research project.
The academic progress and social welfare of our research students is a high priority, and the administration of your project will be overseen by a dedicated postgraduate research student lead in the Earth Sciences department, in conjunction with the College’s Doctoral School.
Your progress will be reviewed at four and eight months by a panel comprised of your supervisor, co-supervisor or advisor, and an independent staff member.
At each meeting, you must provide examples of written work and timetabled plans for future work, with a verbal presentation made at the four month meeting.
A progress review form is completed at each meeting, checked by the Earth Sciences Postgraduate Research Student Lead who may also provide feedback.
All students have access to the wide range of other training opportunities available in the college including the Researcher Development Programme (RDP) and support from the Centre for Development of Academic Skills.
Normally we require at least a UK 2:2 (Honours) or equivalent.
Applicants with other qualifications in related disciplines should discuss these with their potential supervisor(s).
Eligible degree subjects include Chemistry, Biological Science, Earth Science, Environmental Science, Geography, Geology, Geoscience, Marine Science, and Physical Science.
Before making an application, prospective students should contact potential supervisors in the Department of Earth Sciences to discuss possible research projects, and to develop a project proposal in support of the application.
We advise getting in touch with the Director of Postgraduate Education making an informal enquiry for your chosen research topic.
Some projects may benefit from external co-supervisors with specialist knowledge or facilities at universities, research institutes, industry or other collaborative partners.
Normally, we require a UK 2:2 (Honours) or equivalent in one of the following subjects: Biology, Chemistry, Earth Science, Ecology, Environmental Science, Environmental Engineering, Geography, Geology, Marine Science, and Physical Science

Vocational and professional experience within the environmental sector is desirable, but not essential.
A Masters in Earth Sciences at Royal Holloway, University of London is excellent preparation for graduates who want to continue to further PhD study or pursue a career in a variety of sectors.
Upon completion of the course you will have acquired a range of advanced research techniques and experience of research in the earth sciences.
You’ll also develop important transferable skills, including teamwork and networking, communication and presenting research findings to an audience in the form of a conference presentation.
Students may be employed as Postgraduate Demonstrators, and those who successfully complete the Skills of Teaching to Inspire Learning course will be awarded accreditation as an Associate of the Higher Education Academy.
You’ll benefit from a close-knit graduate network to draw on, with alumni often visiting Royal Holloway to share their experiences.
Many of our Masters graduates have gone on to secure PhD positions at Royal Holloway, or at other leading university departments.
Our graduates have entered careers in the research and employment sectors, with roles in GIS, IT, science editing, climate science, industry and environmental consultancies.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £28,700†
† Earth Sciences by Research MSc is subject to up to £6,000 in addition to the above fees which are negotiated between the department and student/sponsor at the project setup stage.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/electronic-engineering/electronic-engineering:
International/EU fees ** : £28,700
Electronic Engineering is at the heart of many systems that we use on a daily basis, including mobile communications, computers, transport systems, most domestic appliances, TV, radio, music studios and gaming devices.
There is nothing around us today that has not been engineered to be fit-for-purpose.
Electronic Engineering is a broad and ever-expanding discipline, providing ample scope for students seeking to carry out research.
At Royal Holloway, University of London we are building world-class centres of expertise through research groups in areas such as audio and voice, nano-technology and power systems.
Our research group leaders are experts in their fields and work with many external partners both in academia and in industry, offering opportunities to specialise in research that puts technology into the service of humankind.
Find out more about our research here
You can expect to enjoy an inspiring and collaborative research culture where you will be fully involved in the research activities of the Department in an established university setting.
With a highly supportive staff network, you’ll become a part of a dynamic research culture.
We are dedicated to promoting equality in science, and we strongly encourage and support female applicants.
You will study at one of the UK’s most beautiful campuses, and use our purpose-built state-of-the-art facilities dedicated to the creative engineering process.
Our location is in close proximity to London and to the South East Regional Hub of electronics businesses.
We invite strong graduates with an Electronic Engineering background and students with professional experience to apply for our MSc by Research.
The Electronic Engineering MSc by Research is a research degree with the chosen topic being negotiated with a member of staff during the application stage.
This topic will be an area that fits well within one of our research groups.
Candidates are able to attend third and fourth-year modules within the department’s MEng programme as desired to support their research (please note that these are not assessed as part of the MSc by Research).
There will be introductory activities on research skills, presentations, writing reports and laboratory safety.
You will be assessed by a dissertation.
Normally, we require a UK 2:2 (Honours) or equivalent in a relevant subject.
Relevant professional qualifications in an associated area will be considered.
Before applying we recommend securing a supervisor in order to apply for your research project.
We advise getting in touch with the Director of Postgraduate Education making an informal enquiry for your chosen research degree to inquire whether there is any other additional material they require you to submit in your application.
When applying please select one of the following research disciplines from the list of pathways within the application form: Biosignals and Intelligent Systems, Microwave Photonics and Sensors, Nano-Electronics or Power Systems.
Electronic Engineering by Research at Royal Holloway, University of London has been designed for students to take their first steps towards an academic career, further postgraduate study or for application in industry.
You’ll gain valuable research skills and broaden your academic knowledge, making you a strong candidate for PhD study as well as an attractive prospect for employers in a variety of fields.
We are supported by our Industry Advisory Board to ensure that the courses we offer are directly addressing the specific needs of industry and are kept updated and relevant.
Our connections with industry ensure that graduates will enter employment prepared to make their mark in the creation of the next generation of technological solutions for business and industry.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £28,700
Matthew Bryan
+44 1784 414060

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/english/english-phd:
Duration: 4 years full time
or 5 years part time
The Department of English at Royal Holloway offers expertise across the full chronological and specialist range of English literary study, forging a reputation as one of the most dynamic departments of English in the UK.
PhD students enjoy a varied and lively research culture based in both our London and Egham campuses.
The Centre for Victorian Studies hosts popular lectures by international scholars, usually held in the Royal Holloway Picture Gallery, a superb and renowned collection of 19th-century paintings, while readings and performances from our Creative Writing students and internationally recognised staff are a regular feature of our cultural life.
These are just examples of what there is to choose from to enrich your time at Royal Holloway and to bring intellectual engagement and community with your fellow researchers.
There is considerable opportunity for research students to work together at Royal Holloway.
Both the Poetics Research Centre and the Centre for Victorian Studies run lively event series.
Doctoral students participate in and lead a variety of research seminars, including the Contemporary Innovative Poetry Research Seminar, the Shakespeare Reading Group, the Nineteenth-Century Reading Group, the London 19th Century Studies seminar, and the Finnegans Wake Research Seminar.
Encouragement and support is given to students who wish to present their work at or run conferences.
The Doctoral School runs numerous events and is an important source of information for the Postgraduate Research community at Royal Holloway.
Creative writing and practice-based students also find numerous platforms to disseminate their work.
The School of Humanities runs a series of seminars, workshops and lectures for practice-based students.
Discipline-specific research training is available through departmental, School and College programmes .
PhD:
Practice-based PhD:
Fiction
Poetry and Poetic Practice
MA by research:
We typically expect students beginning an MPhil or an MPhil leading to a PhD degree to hold at least a 2:1 or equivalent for their undergraduate degree and at least a merit or equivalent at Master’s level.
You will therefore need to have good enough written and spoken English to cope with your studies right from the start of your course.
Many of our PhD graduates have gone on to successful academic careers in tertiary and secondary education.
Others have obtained posts at the British Library, Shakespeare’s Globe and a wide variety of museum, curation and arts management projects.
Some practice-based graduates now work in Creative Writing posts in academic institutions, and many have published successful (and in many cases award-winning) novels and books of poetry.
Other essential costs***: There are no individual costs greater than £50 per item.
Senior Lecturer in 17th and 18th Century Literature and Culture
English Postgraduate Research Lead
Profile | +44 1784 276494

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/geography/geography-phd:
The Department of Geography is in the top tier of UK departments and has consistently been identified as one of the highest performing in successive research assessments (most recently, ranked 5th in REF2021).
We have over 30 members of academic staff and notable research concentrations in Quaternary science, social, cultural, and historical geography, the GeoHumanities, geopolitics and security, development studies and sustainability.
Ours is a vibrant postgraduate community of over 120 students, including some 80 PhD candidates, drawn from across the world.
Subject to eligibility criteria, students can access funding from AHRC, ESRC, NERC, and EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnerships and Centres.
PhD students sit at the heart of our research culture and are supported in their work by world-leading academics and a dedicated team of technical staff.
The Department of Geography is proud that Professor Felix Driver has recently been awarded Outstanding Research Supervisor of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards.
PhD students enjoy access to well-equipped laboratory and computing facilities and benefit from the exceptional range of partnerships the department has developed with charities, NGOs, industry, government departments, museums, and the creative sector.
The department’s research environment is driven by a number of well-established research centres and groups:
The Department of Geography is well provisioned with computing and laboratory facilities to support its PhD researchers.
The department has a number of scientific laboratories supporting cutting-edge research in physical geography and Quaternary science, including geochemistry, geochronology (including luminescence dating, varve analysis, and tephrochronology), paleoecology, micromorphology, and sedimentology.
The department’s Geospatial and Visual Methods Laboratory is a dedicated postgraduate computing facility consisting of high-spec Macs and PCs with Geographical Information Systems software, advanced cartographic and image handling packages, and audio-visual editing software for the analysis of qualitative data.
The Humphries Graphics Suite houses specialist large-format printing and encapsulating services.
The facility is managed by the department’s Graphics Technician who can advise on the use of graphics software for producing diagrams, data displays, and artwork for publication.
PhD researchers also benefit from Royal Holloway’s postgraduate-focused facilities in the Bloomsbury area of central London, world-class research and library facilities in London more generally, and vibrant programmes of workshops and events organised by the department’s research groups.
PhD researchers are ordinarily assessed on the basis of a written thesis of monograph form and of not more than 100,000 words in length.
Alternatively, for students engaged in practice-based research, Royal Holloway is one of the few geography departments internationally to offer assessment on the basis of a substantial body of performance or creative work, together with an accompanying written submission of 30,000–60,000 words.
This mode of assessment may be particularly appropriate for candidates within the field of GeoHumanities.
It is also possible, with permission, to submit a thesis that comprises a collection of papers, brought together via an introduction, methodology, critical evaluation and conclusion.
The Department would ordinarily expect applicants to hold a UK 1st- or upper 2nd-class undergraduate degree (or a recognised international equivalent) together with a relevant Master’s degree (at Pass level or higher).
Professional experience, particularly in the case of applicants wishing to pursue a practice-based PhD, will be considered in the absence of a Masters degree.
Our graduates have entered into a wide range of careers, within academia and beyond, including positions at the British Library, the Department for International Development, commercial consultancy, NGOs, think-tanks, major cultural institutions and museums, and the Royal Geographical Society (with IBG).
A significant number of our graduates have remained in academia, going on to secure postdoctoral research positions and lectureships in a wide variety of disciplines.
Supervisors work closely with PhD researchers to explore and support their career ambitions.
PhD researchers have full access to the College’s Careers and Employability Service and many choose to take up the opportunity of research-related placements in relevant organisations during the course of their studies.
Other essential costs***: There are no additional costs greater than £50 per item.
Reader in GeoHumanities
Postgraduate Research Student Lead
Profile | +44 1784 443567

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/information-security/information-security-phd:
The Information Security Group (ISG) is a world-leading interdisciplinary research group dedicated to research and education in the area of information (cyber) security.
The ISG comprises more than fifteen full-time academic faculty members, including a mix of computer scientists, mathematicians and social scientists.
They are supported by visiting academics, research assistants and a large number of research students, making the ISG one of the largest academic information security teams in the world.
We also host an EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Cyber Security for the Everyday, which funds a four-year PhD programme (first year of taught training followed by three years of research).
The ISG has supervised over 200 PhD students, many now holding influential positions in the cyber security industry.
The ISG was formed in 1990 with the intent of providing an academic institution which understood and collaborated with government and industry in the area of information security.
Today the ISG continues to attract some of the best minds in the world working in the field of cyber security, helping to shape the National Cyber Security Strategy and develop the talent and services of tomorrow.
Royal Holloway is recognised as a UK Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACE-CSR).
Our breadth of coverage, coupled with our size, distinguished educational and academic track record, and long-standing and deep engagement with industry, makes the ISG a unique research group in the UK.
The research tradition of the ISG was validated in an ESPRC review of mathematical sciences in the UK which stated that 'UK researchers remain world leaders in information security (Royal Holloway)'.
The ISG has more than 15 permanent research-active members of academic staff, a number of distinguished visiting professors and consultants, as well with as a large group of postdoctoral research assistants and a large PhD research student community supported by the CDT in Cybersecurity for the everyday.
This exciting research environment is enhanced by a range of research seminars and working groups.
We also boast exceptional research facilities.
We have our own dedicated research centre, the Smart Card and IoT Security Centre.
This centre  was founded in 2002 as a world-wide centre of excellence for training and research into security issues associated with smart cards, tokens and mobile devices.
Topics studied with the group now include Radio Frequency ID (RFID), Near Field Communication (NFC), mobile devices and general embedded/ implementation system security.
As research activity also focuses on devices with relatively limited processing and memory resources but with direct network connectivity – the Internet  of Things (IoT) – the group’s name changed to “The Smart Card and Internet of Things Security Centre” in December 2015.
The Systems Security Research Lab (S2 Lab) was founded in September 2014.
The research carried out in the lab focuses on devising novel techniques to protect systems from a broad range of threats, including those perpetrated by malicious software.
In particular, we aim at building practical tools and provide security services to the community at large.
Our research, kindly sponsored by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPRSRC), the European Council Framework Programme 7 (EU FP7) and Intel Security (McAfee Labs UK), crosses the boundaries of a number of different Computer Science related topics, such as operating systems, computer architecture, program analysis and machine learning, making our challenging journey always exciting.
Once the research has been successfully completed the student must write and submit a final report in the form of a PhD research thesis.
This will be evaluated by at least two experts and the student will be invited to attend an oral examination where they must defend their thesis.
The minimum entry requirement for an MPhil or an MPhil leading to a PhD degree is the equivalent of a UK Second Class Honours degree in an appropriate subject, although in many cases a Masters level qualification will also be expected.
Candidates must also be demonstrably proficient in English.
The degree can be used as an entry into corporate information security research or academic research, or may serve as a method to demonstrate the candidates advanced skills in a manner beyond that demonstrated by a taught course.
Ex-students can now be found working at high levels in all branches of information security and in such companies such as Microsoft and Google.
Reader in Information Security

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/languages-literatures-and-cultures/comparative-literature-and-culture:
The School of Languages, Literatures and Cultures is committed to interdisciplinary working, making it the ideal place to study for a postgraduate degree in Comparative Literature and Culture.
We provide the opportunity for you to approach topics of your choice in a comparative way, for example by making comparisons between the literature, film or culture of different language areas, including texts in translation.
This degree enables you to independently explore your area of interest in real depth, it can also provide you with the chance to test or try out an area of study in preparation for doctoral study.
Whilst you will be working independently, you won’t be alone, you will receive specialist one-to-one tuition throughout your degree.
You will work closely with your specialist supervisor, or supervisors, to develop a clearly defined research topic and complete a 30,000-40,000 word dissertation.
You will be part of our research-led environment in which academic staff are working at the frontiers of their subjects.
The breadth of our teaching and research expertise means that we are able to provide the latest thinking, expert support and intellectual challenges.
Our cutting-edge work ranges from the medieval to the 21st century and spans literature, cinema, thought and the visual arts.
Possible comparative topics and themes include adaptation, reception, interpretation, performance, place and displacement or creative transfer.
It is also possible to adopt an interdisciplinary focus to open up critical perspectives and break down geographical barriers.
In addition to your dissertation you will undertake a taught course designed to equip you with an array of theoretical and historical approaches to the study of literature, art and culture.
This will enable you to articulate, refine and persistently test your own approach to your chosen topic within this broader theoretical and methodological framework.
You will also have access to skills training and enjoy the additional support of a dedicated Research Advisor.
The taught course will be assessed by a presentation.
The dissertation will be examined by an internal and an external examiner.
There is no viva voce.
UK Honours degree or equivalent in Literature, Fine Art, Media or a related subject.
On graduating you will have a proven ability to undertake focused research, improved your written and oral presentation skills, and honed skills in critical analysis.
In addition, you will have an understanding and a critical awareness of current problems and/or new insights in literature, film, cultural studies or the visual arts.
All of the these skills will be appealing to employers and enable you to pursue your chosen career.
Alternatively, you will also be in a strong position to continue onto doctoral study, having demonstrated that you have the self direction, originality and initiative required.
In recent years a number of our Languages, Literature and Culture postgraduates have gone on to successful academic careers both in Britain and internationally in the fields of languages, critical theory and film.
Postgraduates have also embarked upon many interesting and successful careers outside academia – in the UK, continental  Europe and the United States – including journalism at The Independent, work for NGOs, trade sales, publishing, professional translating, teaching, opera direction, museum curatorship, creative arts, and librarianship.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £25,500
Director of Postgraduate Research

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/law-and-criminology/law-phd:
International/EU fees ** : £19,800
The multidisciplinary Department of Law and Criminology is home to applied, theoretical and doctrinal research across Criminology, Forensic Psychology, Law, Social Work, and Sociology.
In the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), 100% of our submission was assessed as world leading or internationally excellent for research impact.
The Department is home to about 50 research active staff and 50 PhD students.
We offer a stimulating research environment in which PhD students are expected to be a part of the multidisciplinary research groups and contribute to PhD-led seminars and development activities.
Our students benefit from opportunities for research methods training and we have a network of external organisations who are willing to support optional short-term placements and knowledge exchange opportunities.
You can find detailed research profiles of our staff here, by selecting the Departmental Research Group of most relevance to your proposed research and following the links to staff profile pages.
Alternatively, you can find a list of staff here (select the drop down menu for Law to find staff with expertise).
Please note that by studying this degree your award title will not include the subject of study but will simply state you've completed a PhD.
Our activities are organised around the Departmental Research Clusters which cover interdisciplinary domains of Crime and Punishment, Families and Children, Health and Social Care, and Rights and Freedoms.
Many staff and PhD students are members of more than one research group.
Research Clusters organise monthly seminars and annual research impact-related events with external stakeholders, which PhD students are invited to attend.
During the academic year PhD students are expected to attend Departmental workshops and to attend research and professional development events organised by the College-wide Doctoral School.
There are also opportunities for students to organise mini conferences or seminar series.
We understand the importance of fostering professional and transferable skills for doctoral students, and fully support presenting papers at academic conferences in the UK and abroad.
We are committed to our students' success, providing mock vivas, annual reviews, and personal advice on issues such as managing time pressures, meeting deadlines, and career development.
Students register for an MPhil and then participate in an upgrade process before the 20 th month of studies, if in full time study (40 th month part time).
The upgrade requires submission of thesis chapters for consideration by a panel of Departmental staff and a formal presentation to this panel.
Following upgrade, students follow a PhD registration and are expected to submit the thesis by the end of their third year of full time study, or at the latest by the end of their fourth year (part time by the end of the 8 th year).
Part of the training throughout the programme is attending internal and external seminars.
In addition, we run a PhD seminar series where students present their on-going research and receive feedback from their peers and the faculty.
Candidates for a place on the MPhil/PhD programme will have undergraduate and taught Masters degrees in a relevant subject.
The Masters degree would typically have included training in advanced research methods and/or doctrinal research, and be awarded with a Distinction or high Merit.
The Department welcomes applications from suitably qualified and highly motivated candidates.
The application process for our postgraduate research programmes is interactive.
Please follow these steps for enquiring about and applying for a PhD in Law: 1.
Make an informal enquiry before you apply In the first instance, you should check the research interests of members of academic staff to see who is active in the area that you are interested in.
When you have identified a potential supervisor (with relevant expertise to your proposed research), send to them an outline research proposal and a CV, setting out your qualifications and experience.
You should expect to have a series of discussions with this member of staff (by email, by telephone/MSTeams, or in person) about the project, options for funding, and your career aspirations.
These discussions will help the member of staff decide whether or not they would be an appropriate supervisor for your proposed project, if they have availability for supervision.
2.
Submit an application When a member of staff has agreed in principle to supervise your project, you should then submit an application form using the online application system .
Ensure that you indicate the name of the proposed supervisor/s.
One of the most important aspects of your application is the research proposal.
The purpose of the research proposal is two-fold: first, to help determine whether your topic corresponds with the interests and expertise of the proposed supervisor(s) and, second, to make clear how the research will make an original contribution to theoretical and applied knowledge in the field.
The proposal is important as it will allow the Department to assess your aptitude for doctoral-level research, to allocate supervision appropriately, and to ensure we are fully able to support the study you propose.
Although you are required formally to submit the proposal with your application for doctoral study, it is a document you should develop in discussion with a member of staff in the Department of Law and Criminology before you submit this formally.
The proposal should be approximately 2,000 words in length (excluding the reference list) and include the following sections: a.
Title At this stage, a working title that summarises the proposed focus is more than adequate.
b.
Introduction, Research Question and Rationale The introduction should, in a succinct way, provide an overview of, and rationale for, the proposed project.
You should explain the project focus, main research question and broad aims, and how it will make an original contribution to theory and practice.
The introductory section needs to outline the basic argument the thesis intends to advance, as well as what it will aim to demonstrate.
In simple terms, explain what the project is about, why it is innovative, why the project matters, why you are the right person to undertake it, and why the Department of Law and Criminology is the most appropriate place to be based.
c.
Literature Review Any proposed project should make clear how it relates to existing research on the topic (or related topics).
In this section, you should summarise the current state of scholarship on your topic and explain the ways in which your project will draw from, and build on, that work.
In this part of the proposal, you are demonstrating your knowledge of the field and the ways in which your project will make meaningful contributions.
d.
Data and Methodology Detail the sources of data (qualitative and/or quantitative, doctrinal) that you will require in order to answer your research questions and the specific methods you intend to apply in order to collect or generate those data.
You should offer a clear explanation for your selection of research methods: Why one method rather than another?
This section should also offer an account of your analytical strategy.
How will you make sense of your data?
Will you require any specialist software to complete that analysis?
Will your project involve fieldwork?
If so, to where?
How will that fieldwork be financed and supported?
Include a section on the ethical implications of your proposed topic.
Which ethical issues are raised by your project?
How do you intend to address them?
e.
Proposed thesis structure and timeline In this section you should outline the structure of your thesis, and demonstrate that you have thought about how you are going to structure and organise the argument put forward in your thesis.
Additionally, you should propose a timeline for your project, and demonstrate how you think you will organise your time in the three years you will work on your thesis.
f.
Reference list List here, using the citation system common to your discipline, the sources referred to in the proposal.
3.
After applying All applications are subject to review by a panel of academic members of staff in the Department of Law and Criminology.
Applicants will be informed of the outcome as soon as the panel has met.
Further details For further information concerning applications for postgraduate research in the department, please contact Jill Marshall , Departmental Lead for Postgraduate Research.
Please follow these steps for enquiring about and applying for a PhD in Law:
In the first instance, you should check the research interests of members of academic staff to see who is active in the area that you are interested in.
When a member of staff has agreed in principle to supervise your project, you should then submit an application form using the online application system .
The proposal should be approximately 2,000 words in length (excluding the reference list) and include the following sections:
a.
Title
At this stage, a working title that summarises the proposed focus is more than adequate.
Introduction, Research Question and Rationale
The introduction should, in a succinct way, provide an overview of, and rationale for, the proposed project.
Literature Review
Any proposed project should make clear how it relates to existing research on the topic (or related topics).
Data and Methodology
Detail the sources of data (qualitative and/or quantitative, doctrinal) that you will require in order to answer your research questions and the specific methods you intend to apply in order to collect or generate those data.
Proposed thesis structure and timeline
In this section you should outline the structure of your thesis, and demonstrate that you have thought about how you are going to structure and organise the argument put forward in your thesis.
Reference list
List here, using the citation system common to your discipline, the sources referred to in the proposal.
All applications are subject to review by a panel of academic members of staff in the Department of Law and Criminology.
For further information concerning applications for postgraduate research in the department, please contact Jill Marshall , Departmental Lead for Postgraduate Research.
Our PhD programme is very successful and our alumni have gone on to undertake careers in a variety of roles, particularly in the criminal justice, education, and health and social care sectors.
Our graduates have also gone on to have extremely successful careers in a variety of Universities including here at Royal Holloway, University of London, as well as at other institutions both inside and outside the UK.
The Department actively supports the placement of PhD students in external organisations that can enhance PhD research impact, employability skills, and knowledge exchange.
EU and International students tuition fee per year**: £19,800

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/mathematics/mathematics-phd:
Academic staff in the Department of Mathematics carry out pioneering research which is making an impressive impact on the world stage.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) 96% of research output is rated world-leading and internationally excellent.
The department has 20 staff performing research in a number of areas of pure, applied and applicable mathematics, probability and statistics, and information security.
The main research interests in the department can be grouped into the following areas
PhD students have access to excellent computing facilities in the Department.
In addition, staff members hold workshops and discussion meetings in a variety of areas on a regular basis.
There are weekly seminars from national and international speakers.
PhD researchers also benefit from Royal Holloway’s access to world-class research and library facilities in London and to advanced postgraduate courses in their research field shared with other University of London Colleges through the London Taught Course Centre.
This will be evaluated by at least two experts and the student will be invited to attend an oral examination where they must satisfactorily defend their thesis.
The minimum entry requirement for an MPhil or an MPhil leading to a PhD degree is the equivalent of a UK Upper Second Class Honours degree in an appropriate subject, although in many cases a Masters (or MSci) level qualification will also be expected.
Our PhD students have a high employability rate.
Our Mathematics PhD students either continue on the academic route by taking up Post-Doctoral research positions at other institutions or move, for example, into the Financial Sector.
Many of the skills acquired by Mathematics PhD students are in demand outside of Academia.
Professor of Applied Mathematics
Director of Graduate Studies
Profile | +44 1784 443088

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/music/music-phd:
The Department of Music is consistently rated as one of the top research departments in the UK with an international reputation of high distinction.
We offer postgraduate research opportunities in a wide range of musical disciplines, with world-leading expertise in historical musicology, theory and analysis, performance as research, composition and ethnomusicology.
As an alternative, or precursor, to PhD study, we also offer MPhil and MA by Research (assessed entirely on the research dissertation: max.
40,000 words) options.
We offer a strong and highly supportive, collegiate atmosphere in which you will be offered discipline-specific research training, have opportunities to present your research at regular PGR colloquia, and gain experience of teaching through working as an assistant to a member academic staff on delivering and assessing aspects of the BMus curriculum.
Your progress will be monitored through supervision reports and will be reviewed annually, with an upgrade viva which, if successful, moves you onto the PhD programme.
A good first degree and usually a Masters degree in Music, or in a related subject if the topic of research is interdisciplinary.
Many of our PhD graduates in Music have moved into post-doctoral research positions and other academic opportunities.
Others have moved into portfolio careers as creative artists, performers, teachers, and/or researchers.
A PhD in Music can also lead to non-academic careers, as employees recognise the transferable skills and personal qualities required to be successful at this high level of scholarship.
Professor of Music
Department lead: Research students
Profile | +44 1784 443947

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/physics/msc-physics-by-research:
Our MSc Physics by Research course is ideal both for graduates who would like to undertake original research without committing themselves to a three-year PhD, and for students who want to gain a research-based Masters before embarking on their PhD.
The Department of Physics is known internationally for its top-class research.
Our staff carry out research at the cutting edge of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Experimental Quantum Computing, Quantum Matter at Low Temperatures, Theoretical Physics, Dark Matter, Particle Physics and Biophysics, as well as other areas.
Together they form a vibrant, international community dedicated to collaborative research that has a global impact.
Royal Holloway's Physics Department has strong links with leading international facilities, including Rutherford Appleton and the National Physical Laboratory, Oxford Instruments, SNOLAB, CERN, ISIS and Diamond.
Find out more about research degree opportunities here
This course is assessed by the completion of an extended research project in any research area (100% of the final mark).
Normally, we require a UK 2:2 (Honours) or equivalent in a relevant subject, such as Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Materials, Electronics or Engineering.
Our graduates are highly employable and, in recent years, have entered many different areas, including careers in industry, information technology and finance.
This course also equips you with the subject knowledge and a solid foundation for continued studies in physics; around 50% of the graduates of this course progress onto PhD study at Royal Holloway.
Senior Lecturer
Postgraduate Lead for Physics
Profile | +44 (0) 1784 443459

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/politics-and-international-relations/politics-phd:
Politics
We have more than 30 PhD students pursuing cutting-edge research, and undertaking advanced training, in the areas of new political communication; elections, public opinion and parties; comparative politics; politics of Africa, Asia and the Middle East; and international relations.
Royal Holloway is ranked 9th in the UK for international outlook in the Times Higher World Rankings.
The academics in the Department come from 10 different countries and our students represent countries from across the globe.
Overseas students play a vital role in ensuring that our department benefits from a diversity of experience and skills.
Our department has several research centres , bringing together internationally regarded researchers and our community of PhDs.
Through dedicated programmes in the department, and at University-level, we offer our postgraduate research students relevant and timely training in research-specific and transferable skills.
As a first-year doctoral student you will attend weekly research and professional development seminars that provide training and advice in writing book reviews, getting published, achieving impact, entering the academic job market and more, and in which students develop and present their research to one another and to staff.
We are committed to ensuring that you are well-equipped, not only to complete your studies but also to develop your future careers.
A PhD is awarded to students who produce a substantial piece of original research in the form of a thesis of up to 100,000 words.
You will normally be required to have successfully completed a postgraduate degree (MA/MRes/MSc) in a relevant field.
We will also consider applications from those with long-term relevant work experience.
Many of our postgraduate students, even before they complete their studies, are presenting their work at international conferences and publishing in top-ranked journals.
Our students are also deeply committed to public engagement, not only in the UK but also around the world.
EU and International students tuition fee per year**: £21,500
Reader in Politics and International Relations

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/psychology/psychology-phd:
The Department of Psychology is a dynamic and varied research community covering the cognitive and neural underpinnings of social interaction, learning, memory, and language, through to more applied research topics in forensic, health, and developmental psychology.
Our academic staff work at the forefront of their field, across psychological science and neuroscience, with an active, thriving postgraduate research community.
The Department of Psychology at Royal Holloway has been placed joint third in the country by The Times Higher Education following the publication of the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 results.
In the REF 2021 results overall, 67% of Psychology's research was classified as 4* world leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour, highlighting the exceptional quality of the department’s research outputs, impact and environment.
The department received a top score for its research impact, with 100% judged to be 4* which is the highest standard of excellence.
This outstanding result for research impact reinforces the importance and value of the department’s research to society and the economy.
We are located on a beautiful campus in Surrey, close to London and we have a wide range of research-dedicated facilities.
The department has earned a Silver Athena SWAN award for best practice in equal opportunities and our inclusive environment.
We invite candidates to discuss possible research topics with a potential supervisor before submitting a formal application.
You can find out more about our staff and their areas of expertise here .
From time to time, we make changes to our courses to improve the student and learning experience, and this is particularly the case as we continue to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic.
If we make a significant change to your chosen course, we’ll let you know as soon as we can.
Principal Investigators and their lab groups are supported by state-of-the-art facilities (fMRI, EEG, TMS, tDCS, VR, and eye-tracking as well as labs dedicated to sleep, vestibular-multisensory integration, psychophysiology, psycholinguistics, and infant cognition), and the department provides a supportive environment for the scientific training of doctoral students through one-on-one mentoring, regular training events, student-led seminars, and journal clubs.
Research in the department falls broadly into the following groupings:
Each of the groupings have regularly held seminars where external researchers present the latest research and provide a rich opportunity for postgraduate research students to meet and discuss research with leaders in their fields.
More information about the research groups is here .
Students who are admitted to this programme are initially registered on a MPhil programme.
Before their second year of studies they will have an upgrade meeting, if successful, they will become registered on the PhD Psychology programme.
To be awarded a PhD Psychology degree, students must submit their thesis, and pass their viva examination with one internal and one external examiner.
Applicants should have the equivalent of a 2:1 honours in Psychology, or a related discipline, and meet Royal Holloway’s requirements for English (for international students).
Our PGR students often continue in careers in academia (Post-doctoral work, Teaching Fellow, Lecturer) or onto research in business and industry.
Our former PGR students have moved into academia, into industry as statisticians, into marketing and neuromarketing, government (eg, Office for National Statistics), policy, cybersecurity, and have become founders of Tech start ups and charities.
Lecturer
Profile | +44 (0)1784 276547

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/financial-support:
Financial support
At Royal Holloway we know that managing your finances can be a difficult part of being a student so we'll do all we can to help you to make your time at university as financially stress-free and enjoyable as possible.
The Student Financial Wellbeing Advisers, based in Student Advisory and Wellbeing (Founders Building) are available if you find yourself in financial difficulty.
They are able to offer advice and guidance on financial matters, including budgeting for your studies.
They administer a number of funds including the Short Term Loan and Study Support Grant (previously the Hardship Fund).
Student Finance England provide loans for both undergraduate and postgraduate students to help with course fees and living costs.
Royal Holloway can provide loans of up to £500 if you end up in short-term financial difficulty and to assist in cash flow problems.
This may include a late student loan payment, delayed funds from parents or postponed money from abroad.
It is an interest-free loan, which is repaid by an agreed date.
(Please note, loans usually take a minimum of three working days to be credited to your bank account.)
If you would like further information please contact the Financial Wellbeing Team
The Study Support Grant is available to all students with an additional financial need.
If you have already received your maximum entitlement of student loan, parental support, home government loan etc, you may be eligible for help.
Please note, the Study Support Grant is cash limited and demand is high.
Applications will be considered throughout the academic year while funds are still available.
Priority is given to mature students, those with childcare costs, disabled students and those from a low income background.
Many of you will take a part-time job to boost your finances while at university, whether it's to pay your way through your degree or for unexpected occasions.
Royal Holloway offers a number of vacancies to students on campus and also works with local employers to ensure you're aware of the jobs available.
We recommend you work no more than 20 hours per week, during the term time, so work doesn't interfere with your studies and gives you time to socialise.
We estimate you should think of needing somewhere between £8,000 to £12,000 for a single person on campus, per academic year, to cover accommodation, food, personal expenses, study-related costs and some limited travelling.
International students also need to take into account various settling-in expenses, including arrangements for travel to and within the UK, visas and travel and health insurance.
As a student at Royal Holloway, you can use your Campus Account to buy food and beverages on campus, including in the dining halls, cafes, bars and shops.
This will mean you won’t pay VAT on many food and drink purchases.
If you’re staying in a catered pay-as-you-go hall, you’ll also get a further subsidy on food in designated dining halls, saving you up to 50%.
There is also a ‘Spend, Eat, Save’ loyalty scheme attached to your account.
See how to keep your Campus Account topped up
Most student accounts have benefits such as free railcards or an interest free banking.
To get these accounts you usually have to prove you’re a Royal Holloway student, using a copy of your Student Status Certificate.
Opening a student bank account
Get a 16-25 railcard through your student bank account.
This gives you a 30% discount on Standard Anytime, Off-Peak, Standard Advanced and First Class Advanced rail fares anywhere in the UK.
Anyone in the UK aged between 16 and 25 is eligible.
If you don’t get a free railcard from your bank, you can apply online or at your local train station.
For £30 a year or £70 for a three-year card, getting around can be cheaper than you think.
Find out more about travel discounts

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
How to apply for an undergraduate degree
Find out all you need to know about applying to one of our undergraduate programmes.
Take a look at the typical entry requirements to find out what qualifications we accept and the minimum requirements.
To find out more about life at Royal Holloway, you can come to an Open Day or go on a campus tour .
Alternatively, take a look at our student life pages.
Use the UCAS online system, which can be done independently or through your school or college.
You will need to enter your personal and academic information as well as write your personal statement.
You can choose up to five institutions or courses to apply to.
Royal Holloway’s institution code is R72.
Individual course codes are listed on the Course finder.
For BA Modern Languages Single or BA Translation Studies courses, you need to tell us which languages you want to study.
Please indicate this under the ‘further details’ section in the ‘choices’ section of the UCAS application form using the following codes:
If you are studying one language select one of the following:
FR French
GM German
SN Spanish
IT Italian
If you wish to study two languages as joint honours please combine the relevant codes, eg.
French and German would be FRGM .
If you wish to study two languages, one major and one minor, please indicate the major language code first and link the relevant codes with w , eg.
French as major and Spanish as minor would be FRwSN.
If you wish to study three languages please select Multilingual Studies:
MLS Multilingual Studies
If you have any queries, contact us through our application query form .
A-levels, BTEC and International Baccalaureate qualifications will be verified by UCAS.
You won’t need to send additional documents when you apply.
However, for other qualifications you may need to send a transcript or certificate of your results to the Admissions Office.
For information or advice, please contact our Admissions team.
Contact us through our application query form stating your UCAS number and full name.
Applications for all students for 2025 entry should reach UCAS between 1 September and 29 January.
Due to the number of applications for our popular courses, we also advise international students to apply by this date although applications will still be considered until 30 June if places are still available.
UCAS opens for applications
Early September 2024
UCAS application deadline
29 January 2025
UCAS Extra opens for applications
26 February 2025
Deadline for universities to inform UCAS of their decision
14 May 2025
Deadline for you to reply to your offers
5 June 2025
Accommodation applications open and deadline to apply for halls
Open: 24 March 2025
Deadline: 14 July 2025
More information
UCAS Extra deadline
4 July 2025
New UCAS applications are entered into clearing
From 5 July 2025
Early Clearing starts
5 July 2025
A-Level results released
14 August 2025
Application cycle closes
20 October 2025
Most students at Royal Holloway will be aged 18 or over, but some meet the entry requirements aged 16 or 17.
Prospective students who will be under the age of 18 at the start of their course should read the Admissions policy for more information.
Mature students can find further information on applying on the mature students pages.
No UG programmes now require a portfolio for admission.
Any specific requirements are detailed in the individual Course finder entries.
As a general guide, your personal statement should include:
What interests you about your subject?
If you've studied the subject before, was there a particular area that grabbed your interest?
If you've not studied the subject before, what is it that has made you want to try something new?
Remember : if you're applying to study a combined degree, you should make a connection between the different subjects.
What have you found out about your subject?
Don't just tell us what you've read or done - tell us what you found interesting about it and how it developed your knowledge and interest in your chosen subject.
What skills and personal qualities do you have?
Don't just tell us what they are - tell us how you've developed these skills and how they fit to your chosen course or career.
You may be a good communicator through working in a customer service role, or work well with others through playing sport.
How will they develop in your chosen course?
Do you have a particular career path in mind?
If so, how could this degree help you get there?
Remember, don’t just tell us general information about your chosen subject.
Tell us what motivates you to study your course, and the value you’d bring.
After all, this is a personal statement, so make it personal.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/entry-requirements:
Entry requirements
Our students come from many different countries.
We accept a wide range of qualifications.
We assess every applicant on their individual merits, but there are minimum qualifications.
We require A-level students to pass three subjects.
Each course has different grade requirements.
See what grades you need in our course finder.
The course finder shows the minimum grades needed.
You may find your particular offer requires higher grades.
We welcome students who have taken BTECs, CTECs and WJECs.
We accept applicants who have done these in the form of Extended Certificates, National Diplomas and Extended Diplomas at the equivalent of our GCE A-Level requirements.
Each degree sets its own requirements which you can check on our course finder .
We recognise these qualifications can take many forms and in varying combinations.
For prior oversight of your qualification combinations and their suitability for your desired course, please reach out to Admissions at Admissions.Enquiries@rhul.ac.uk .
We welcome students who have taken both the IB Diploma and IB Career-related Programme (IBCP).
Each degree sets its own minimum IB offer which you can check on our course finder .
We recognise this qualification can take many forms.
For prior oversight of your Careers-Programme combinations and their suitability for your desired course, please reach out to Admissions at Admissions.Enquiries@rhul.ac.uk
If you’re studying the Scottish Advanced Highers, you’re expected to achieve at least three passes.
Grades required will vary by department and can be found on the UCAS course listing.
For UK students, we expect at least five GCSE passes at grades A* to C or 9 – 4 including Maths and English.
None of our Undergraduate courses currently require an Interview as part of a standard application.
If you don’t meet our typical entry requirements, we have a list of alternative entry qualifications that we accept.
QAA recognised Access to Higher Education Certificates or Diplomas; the European Baccalaureate, Welsh Baccalaureate, Edexel National Diploma, T-Levels, CACHE Diploma, International Advanced Levels, NVQs and other overseas qualifications.
For further information check the UCAS course listing or contact us using Unibuddy .
We welcome applications from international students whose qualifications match our entry requirements for courses.
Check your country’s entry requirements.
If English isn't your first language, you’ll need to demonstrate your English language level through a recognised qualification.
If your language results are slightly below the required level, you may have the chance to attend a pre-sessional English language course - so you won't need to retake any exams or tests.
If your secondary education took place in an English-speaking country, or in English (such as International A-levels) you may not have to take an IELTS or equivalent test.
Contact us using application query form if you want to check.
Study the International Year One in January and September and progress directly onto the second year of your chosen undergraduate degree in September.
Equivalent to the first year of an undergraduate degree, the International Year One provides academic and English language support specifically designed to meet the needs of international students.
The level of English support is based on your IELTS score, with options for IELTS lower than 6.5 and an option for IELTS higher than 6.5.
You can choose to apply for one of the following subject routes:
● International Year One in Business and Management
● International Year One in Computer Science
● International Year One in Economics
● International Year One in Electronic Engineering
You can find out how to apply to a pathway programme or apply directly using the online application form .
If you are an international student who does not meet the direct entry requirements for an undergraduate degree, you can study an International Foundation Year at the Royal Holloway International Study Centre.
Students can choose to apply for one of the following programmes:
Upon successful completion of one of these pathway programmes, you can progress to study an undergraduate course at Royal Holloway, University of London.
You can find out how to apply to a pathway programme or apply directly using the online application form .
Certain academic departments at Royal Holloway consider transfers into the second year of an undergraduate programme on a case-by-case basis.
We are unable to accept transfers into third year for any of our courses.
To be considered for second year entry, you will need to:
Details of all of our undergraduate degrees, including entry requirements, can be found here .
Students can apply for second year entry through UCAS.
If you have any questions, please contact us using Unibuddy .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/faqs-about-applying:
FAQs about applying
For undergraduate applicants, w e aim to respond to your application within four weeks.
However applications submitted on or around the UCAS Equal Consideration Deadline, Wednesday 31 January 2024, may take significantly longer due to the increase in applications submitted at this time.
For postgraduate applicants, w e aim to respond to your application within six weeks but this may be longer during peak periods and holidays such as Christmas and Easter.
If you're waiting for a decision beyond the time period given above, please contact our Admissions team.
Enquiry form
If you apply after the UCAS deadline, you will still be considered if the course remains open.
Check UCAS to see if your course is open
Find out more about scholarships and bursaries
Yes, we have limited spaces available through clearing.
A list of courses with space will be shown in mid-August.
Find out more about Clearing Call our hotline number: 01784 772455
For UCAS purposes, Royal Holloway is recognised as RHUL, code R72.
We have no campus code as we are based on a single campus.
In most cases, yes.
For Postgraduate applicants simply login to your application portal here: https://admissions.royalholloway.ac.uk/#/login and use the My Enquiries section to submit a deferral request.
The team will automatically be notified.
For Undergraduate applicants please use the fill in this form .
Please note, we don’t normally defer places more than one year.
Places obtained via clearing may not be eligible for a deferral.
We welcome many students on exchange programmes each year.
Or email studyabroad@royalholloway.ac.uk
Find out entry requirements for specific countries
English language requirements vary between departments and courses
See what’s needed for your course
If you miss the offer by a reasonable margin, your application is referred back to the department to be reconsidered.
We will then contact UCAS with a decision.
If you are unsuccessful, you will then be released to your insurance choice or into clearing.
For any course related questions, contact your department admission tutor
For any application related queries please fill in this form .
Or call our admissions team on +44 (0)1784 414944
To request a change please contact the Admissions team by filling in this form .
If your new course is for a very different subject, please include a new personal statement about why you want to study this new programme.
The Admissions Office will then consider your request and contact you by letter.
This does not jeopardise your original course offer.
Once a new offer is made, this will replace your original one.
Find out about applying for accommodation
You will be assessed on the information supplied on your application by a fully trained member of the admissions team.
If you disagree with your assessment, you can complete a fee status questionnaire and return it to the Admissions Office.
In order to apply for a Student Route visa, you’ll need a Confirmation of Acceptance for studies (CAS) number.
We’ll issue a CAS number once:
Get Pre-sessional English visa advice here .
Apply for student funding .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/foundation-year:
Foundation Year
Say yes to your ambitions with an Integrated Foundation Year course at Royal Holloway.
If you’d like to join a top-tier university and want some extra support to make the transition, then one of these dedicated courses could be for you.
If you're looking for a way to boost confidence, grow skills and feel fully prepared for everything that studying a degree at university involves, then our Integrated Foundation Year could be for you.
We firmly believe that university can be and should be for anyone who has a drive and ambition to learn.
Our courses will provide you with an amazing first step on your university journey, packed full of skills to empower you and build your confidence in academic studies at university-level.
You’ll join a friendly and welcoming community of staff and students, passionate about learning and about helping you fulfil your ambitions.
The courses are available to Home students and international students who meet the English Language requirements.
Our highly-qualified staff are at the heart of what we do, and their expertise will be your guide throughout your journey.
You’ll benefit from lectures and small group sessions to build your confidence in class, as well as a personal tutor who’ll be on hand to discuss any challenges as well as your triumphs.
Click here to get to know our team of staff better, and see who will be teaching you during your time on the course.
They're all passionate about supporting your development – both personally and academically.
We’ve also built in opportunities to help enhance your employability – after all, once your fantastic university experience is over, we want you to go out into the world and progress into your dream career.
We treat all our students equally, and your campus experience whilst studying the Integrated Foundation Year will be as exciting and packed full of opportunities as that of any other student from any other degree.
You’ll have full access to all of our services and facilities – both academic and social – ensuring you can enjoy the absolute best that Royal Holloway has to offer right from the moment you enrol.
Sports, clubs and societies will all be there for you to explore and be part of, and by the time you join the first year of your full degree course, we’re confident you’ll be feeling right at home!
Choose from:
BSc Biology with Integrated Foundation Year
Classical Studies with Integrated Foundation Year
Comparative Literature and Culture with Integrated Foundation Year
Computer Systems Engineering with Integrated Foundation Year
Drama and Theatre Studies with Integrated Foundation Year
English with Integrated Foundation Year
Film, Television and Digital Production with Integrated Foundation Year
Geology with Integrated Foundation Year
BSc Health and Social Care with Integrated Foundation Year
History with Integrated Foundation Year
Law with Integrated Foundation Year
Mathematics with Integrated Foundation Year
Music with Integrated Foundation Year
Music and Sound Design for Film, Television and Interactive Media with Integrated Foundation Year
Philosophy with Integrated Foundation Year
Physics with Integrated Foundation Year
Once you have completed your Foundation Year, there may be flexibility to move on to a degree in another department.
For more detail, please see each individual course entry via the links above.
As a student starting the Integrated Foundation Year with us in 2025, you will have guaranteed accommodation under the same terms as other new undergraduates, for both the academic year 2025 and for 2026.
Find out more about our halls of residence and accommodation options .
We welcome applications to our Integrated Foundation Year courses from international students who meet our English Language requirements.
For international students who don't reach the English Language requirements of the Integrated Foundation year, we also offer an International Foundation Year , run by Study Group at the Royal Holloway International Study Centre.
This option offers a combination of English language and study skills training.
Upon successful completion, you may progress on to selected undergraduate degree programmes at Royal Holloway, University of London.
The International Foundation Year is also open to all international students, including those from the EU who do not reach the English Language requirements for the Integrated Foundation Year.
Students taking the Integrated Foundation Year (starting in 2025) benefit from a 10% discount off the Year 1 tuition fee for their full degree.
If you have any questions, you can contact us using our enquiry form or call us on +44 (0)1784 414944.
Alternatively, you can sign up for more information about studying a Foundation Year at Royal Holloway, including the courses we offer and what our current students are saying about us.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/scholarships:
Scholarships
Our great range of scholarships provide cash awards or a reduction on tuition fees.
You'll need to apply for some scholarships, while others are awarded automatically if you meet certain criteria.
Use the search tool below to see which you're eligible for, based on your level of study (undergraduate or postgraduate), your fee status (home or international) and the subject you're planning to study.
Check the individual scholarships to find out full details.
Most scholarships that need an application have closed for 2025 entry.
Scholarships still open for applications include:
If you're an international student looking to join us in 2026, check out the new Royal Holloway International Undergraduate Scholarship.
Many of our other scholarships will be available for 2026 entry so come back soon to see if you could get a cash award or money off your fees when you study with us.
If you have any questions, check out our FAQs .
We also provide bursaries for eligible students while other potential funding includes external scholarships and studentships for research students .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/schools-and-colleges/widening-access:
Widening Access
We're committed to supporting students from all backgrounds to access higher education.
We know that for some students, university education can seem like an impossible dream.
Maybe you don't think it's the place for you, like you wouldn't belong.
Maybe no one else in your family has been or you haven't had the same opportunities in life up to now.
We're here to make sure you can access higher education, whatever your background.
Our founders helped pave the way for women to go to university and today we're following in their footsteps to break down barriers.
We're proud of our groundbreaking history but we know that helping to create a more level playing field is even more essential today.
We're out in schools and colleges, talking to you about the amazing opportunities of university and crucially how we can help you access it, whether it's with contextual offers, financial support or helping you understand all your options, and give advice and encouragement.
Follow the links below to find out more about our Widening Access offer or sign up for one of our residential events.
If you're a teacher, you can also find out how to book a visit to your school or download some useful information for talking to your students about how they can access higher education.
The easiest way to get in touch is to email wa@royalholloway.ac.uk
Meet the team to find out more about us

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/english-language-requirements:
English language requirements
You therefore need to have good enough English to cope with your studies right from the start.
If you’re not a national of one of the countries identified by the UK Home Office as majority English-speaking, you’ll need to provide evidence of your English language ability.
If you are a national of one of the following countries, we will not need proof of your English language ability:
Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, the British overseas territories, Canada, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, Malta, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, USA.
You can demonstrate your English language ability by achieving the scores we require in one of the following tests:
Our required scores vary depending on the language demands of the subject you wish to study.
The specific scores needed for each subject are listed below.
Your language test certificate must have been issued no more than two years before the start of your course.
You may also be able to demonstrate your English language ability if you have completed at least one year of study at bachelor’s level or above at a university in one of the majority English speaking countries listed above.
Royal Holloway reserves the right in individual cases to request additional evidence of your language ability.
A SELT is a Secure English Language Test that is acceptable for UK immigration purposes.
It has to be taken at an approved centre.
Your IELTS qualification must be a SELT if one of your IELTS subscores is below 5.5 and you are:
If you are joining us for a pre-sessional English language programme, we can issue a linked CAS only if your IELTS score is above 5.5 and you have met the academic conditions of your main degree offer.
Please note that TOEFL iBT cannot be used as a SELT.
International students who do not meet the English language requirements for an undergraduate course can apply for a preparation programme at the Royal Holloway International Study Centre .
Once this has been completed, students can progress to study the degree of their choice at Royal Holloway, University of London.
All programmes except BSc Mathematics and Management and BSc Mathematics and Music
BSc Mathematics and Management
BSc Mathematics and Music
LLB Law programmes
BSc Criminology and Sociology and BSc Criminology and Psychology
MSc Forensic Psychology (Taught)
MRes Cultural Geography & MRes Geopolitics, Development, Security and Justice
MA/MSc Global Health programmes require:
MSc (Pre-Registration) Occupational Therapy requires:
MA Producing Film and Television & MA Screenwriting for TV and Film requires:
International Media Management requires:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/placement-year:
Optional Placement Year
Our flexible degree courses enable you to apply to take a Placement Year, which can be spent studying abroad, working or carrying out voluntary work, however we strongly recommend that you only do one experience for 9-12 months which will enable you to get the most out of your placement experience.
The Optional Placement Year Team will be able to advise you throughout the process.
You take the year out after your second year (or third year if you are on an MSci or MEng course).
You apply to take the Placement Year after you have joined us.
When applying for your place at university via UCAS, you need to apply for the standard version of your degree.
You’ll then make your Placement Year application in the autumn term of your second year.
The scheme is not competitive.
Your ability to undertake the Placement Year depends on whether you can secure a placement (either on your own, through us, or a combination of the two), and all placements must be approved by Royal Holloway.
Depending on your course of study, there may also be particular requirements, including your academic performance and other factors.
Your department will be able to let you know what you need to do when you apply for the scheme.
We have exchange agreements with partner universities in Europe, Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, New Zealand and the USA.
Visit our Studying abroad pages for more information.
You may need a visa to go abroad depending on where you go.
We can give you general advice, but you will need to make the application yourself.
You will need to make arrangements for accommodation abroad yourself.
We won’t find the placement for you, but our Careers Service will support you in locating one and will pass on any opportunities they are aware of.
There isn’t a fixed list of opportunities, but we have recently placed students with the following companies; Amazon, American Express, Apple, Bupa, Capita, CGI-Logica, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, and Symantec.
Whether you are paid for your placement depends on the terms of the placement that you secure.
If you want to work abroad, you will need to check local visa requirements to establish whether this will be possible.
During the spring and summer term of your second year, you’ll follow a special preparatory programme, which you can fit around your studies.
It will cover things like how to handle living and studying abroad, being work-ready, cultural workshops, visa advice, training and advice on working in the voluntary sector.
You’ll also have continued access to services and support while you are away.
If you are working in the UK, we will try to visit you during your placement.
If we are unable to visit you in person, support will be given through Skype meetings.
You’ll be charged 20% of your usual tuition fee for the year.
This covers the preparatory programme, continued access to support and services at Royal Holloway, an assessment visit if you are in the UK (if you’re overseas, we’ll do this via Skype), and guidance on the project you’ll need to complete.
It’s important to know that you’ll be responsible for all other costs such as accommodation and travel during your year out.
You can get up to four years of tuition fees and maintenance loans if you are eligible.
We advise you to check if you are joining a degree course which is already four years long.
As it’s such an important part of your skills development and university experience, your Placement Year will be formally recognised on your degree certificate and will contribute to your overall degree.
If your year out does not go to plan and you have extenuating circumstances that are deemed to have significantly impacted your Placement Year, we will not include the mark in your final degree average.
You’ll need to get specific advice depending on your visa and where/how you want to spend your year out.
If you are sponsored, you will need to speak to your funder.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/for-parents-and-supporters:
For parents and supporters
Supporting a young person on their path to university can feel like big responsibility - especially if you’re unfamiliar with higher education yourself.
If you’re unsure where to start, you’re not alone.
We’re here to help, with tools and resources to ensure you feel confident guiding your student through their next steps.
Whether you’re proofreading their personal statement, helping with funding applications, or offering reassurance during exam season, we’ll support you both every step of the way.
You’re a valued part of our community - sign up to our dedicated monthly parent and supporter newsletter to stay in the loop with key information and events.
If your student is considering higher education, there's lots to think about.
Here are some tips about what they can expect.
A guide to the ins and outs of UCAS and the application process.
It's not all studying.
What student life might look like for your student and how we help to ensure they're safe and happy.
Here are our top tips for parents who want to support their children in applying to university.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/distance-learning-courses:
Distance learning courses
Benefit from top quality teaching led by Royal Holloway staff and highly experienced practitioners, whilst having the ability to study from anywhere in the world and at your own pace, on your own schedule.
These online only courses are delivered by the University of London with academic direction from Royal Holloway and offer an engaging, interactive and interdisciplinary learning experience.
By studying one of these courses, you will cultivate skills that are highly valued by employers, such as the ability to think critically, assess evidence and express ideas with precision.
Find out more about course content, time commitment, fees, how to apply and much more by selecting the course you are interested in from the list below.
MSc Project Management pathway specialisms:
To enquire or apply, please visit the University of London course pages above.
Royal Holloway graduates and University of London distance-learning graduates benefit from the University of London alumni bursary

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/postgraduate/entry-requirements:
To study for a postgraduate degree you will need to meet Royal Holloway’s general entrance requirements, as well as those set by the department to which you’ve applied.
The entry requirement depends on the programme.
Refer to the individual course details for specific requirements.
We usually ask for a UK second class honours degree or equivalent overseas qualification and, in some cases, you’ll need additional professional experience.
For some courses, we ask for a UK 2:1 degree or an equivalent, but we will also consider a ‘high’ UK 2:2, where your final award is 57% or more (or equivalent).
Relevant professional experience will also be considered.
The Royal Holloway Pre-Masters Programme , delivered by Study Group, opens up plenty of opportunities for progression to a range of postgraduate degrees at Royal Holloway.
Tailored for international students, the programme takes place over two terms and is designed to give you all the skills you will need to successfully study your postgraduate degree at Royal Holloway.
The Royal Holloway Online Accelerated Pre-Masters Programme , delivered by Study Group, is your route to a range of business-related master’s degrees at Royal Holloway.
This programme is available from anywhere in the world and is perfect for students who want to develop their English language and academic skills prior to starting their master’s degree in the UK.
The Master’s Foundation Programme is available as a two or three-term programme, with progression* to a wide range of Master’s degrees at Royal Holloway.
The course is taught at ONCAMPUS London , based at Birkbeck, in the heart of the University of London.
The programme is a focused pathway designed to prepare international students for postgraduate study in the UK.
To find out more about the programme, including entry requirements, programme structure and progression to Royal Holloway, please click here .
* Students will have the opportunity to progress to Royal Holloway if they achieve the minimum requirements on the Master's Foundation Programme.
Requirements may differ depending on the programme students wish to apply for.
You don’t always need to have previously studied in your chosen subject, for your first degree.
Some courses act as conversion programmes, giving you an intensive introduction to the subject in one year.
However, certain courses require very specific subject knowledge.
Here you need an undergraduate degree in the particular subject you're studying.
Check the relevant department website for specific requirements.
If your first language is not English, you’ll need to demonstrate your English language skills through a recognised qualification.
To reach the required level you can attend a pre-sessional English language course .
If you studied your undergraduate degree in an English-speaking country, or in English, you may not need to take another test.
Find out what’s needed by contacting us using our application query form .
We welcome all applications from international students.
Do make sure your qualifications are equivalent to the entry requirements for your chosen postgraduate course.
See the entry requirements for your country .
Pre-Masters Programmes available
International students who do not meet the requirements to study a postgraduate degree have an option to study a Pre-Masters Programme at Royal Holloway International Study Centre .
Upon successful completion, students can progress to degree study at the Royal Holloway, University of London.
Find our more about entry requirements for your country.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/postgraduate/offers:
Your offers
Find out all you need to know about Postgraduate offers to study at Royal Holloway
Once we have received your application, the Admissions team will assess it.
We check the suitability of your qualifications, while liaising with the Course Director in your chosen department.
Check the status of your application
Once we’ve made a decision, we’ll email you an offer letter.
This will include any specific conditions.
You can see the status of your offer on Royal Holloway Applicant Portal.
Here, your offer is usually conditional upon your final grades.
If you accept your offer and meet the conditions, your place on the course is guaranteed.
If English isn’t your first language, you may be required to take a recognised English language test, as a condition of your offer.
If you’ve already taken an English language test, but not reached the required marks, you may be able to apply for an English language pre-sessional programme .
You can accept your offer on the Royal Holloway Applicant Portal.
All UK applicants to postgraduate taught programmes starting in 2024 are required to pay a deposit of £100 towards their tuition fee in order to secure their place.
All deposits will be offset against your tuition fees and deducted when you enrol.
We encourage all non-UK students to pay a tuition fee deposit of £3,000 or £10,000* as soon as possible to secure their place on the course.
If you require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) letter to be issued, you will need to pay the deposit beforehand.
For courses starting January 2024 we advise you to pay the deposit by 15th December 2023.
For courses starting September 2024 we advise you to pay the deposit by 30th June 2024.
* We have seen an increase in UKVI refusals for those domiciled in certain regions therefore applicants from affected regions will be asked to pay the higher deposit amount which will be detailed in your offer letter.
If you wish to turn down your offer of a place on a course, we’d appreciate it if you let us know as soon as possible.
Decline your offer
If your plans change and you’d like to defer your offer until the next academic year, please submit a request through your applicant portal.
Deferral is not usually a problem, but sometimes, due to student numbers, it is not always possible.
We will get in touch as soon as possible to let you know.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/what-happens-next:
What happens next
Find out the fees charged on each course
Find details on government grants and loans
See the bursaries and scholarships you can apply for
Get your application in as soon as you can after the form opens.
You should make a note of the accommodation application deadlines.
Royal Holloway Students' Union operates HouseSearch, a service for students who would prefer to live in private housing.
To apply for a Student visa you need a CAS number.
We will issue a CAS number once:
Find advice on CAS, if you’ve applied for a pre-sessional programme
If you’re a non UK national you will require a Student visa.
Find useful information and support on applying for a student visa
Get advice on study plans, travel and our free airport collection service

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/research-degrees/how-to-apply:
Contact the Director of Postg raduate Education , for specific information on opportunities available.
Provide details of your research interests and a summary of your academic qualifications.
Let us know if you’re self-funded or require funding.
We’ll forward your enquiry to the relevant members of staff.
They will give you detailed guidance on what is required for your application.
Alternatively, contact the Doctoral School , with details of the subject you would like to study, and we will send you information on who to contact and links to information about fees and funding”
You may need to secure a supervisor in order to apply for your research project, then apply in our Applicant Portal.
Some departments will also require a research proposal.
This should include:
Your supervisor will be on hand to help.
You may need to upload supporting documents to your application.
We advise getting in touch with the Director of Postgraduate Education for your chosen research degree to inquire whether there is any other additional material they require you to submit in your application.”
Upload supporting documents

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/research-degrees/sources-of-funding/directors-of-postgraduate-research-education:
Directors of Postgraduate Research Education
The list below gives the details of the Director of Postgraduate Research Education and Recruitment Leads in each of Royal Holloway's Schools and departments.
Get in touch with your department’s director to find out about research degree opportunities, as well as any funding available.
Director of Postgraduate Research Education
Dr Gul Berna Ozcan
Dr Elizabeth Quaglia
Recruitment Lead - Electronic Engineering
Dr Alin Tisan
Recruitment Lead - Physics
Dr Grégoire Ithier
Recruitment Lead - Mathematics
Professor Pat O'Mahony
Recruitment Lead - Information Security
Recruitment Lead - Computer Science
Dr Daniel O'Keeffe
Professor Tina K.
Ramnarine
Recruitment Lead - Drama Theatre and Dance
Dr Aneta Mancewicz & Dr Chris Megson
Recruitment Lead - Media Arts
Dr Manishita Dass
Recruitment Lead - Music
Professor Richard Alston
Professor Andrew Jotischky
Professor Ryan McKay
Dr Anne Majumdar

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/research-degrees/next-steps:
Next steps
Once you’ve accepted your offer there are a few more steps to take before enrolling and starting your degree.
Information on tuition fees for our research degrees can be found here .
There are a range of funding options available, including studentships, maintenance awards and scholarships, as well as research council funding.
Check out your sources of funding .
The accommodation application system opens in the spring and deadline dates can be found here .
Due to the high demand for on-campus accommodation, be sure to make an early application.
For more information about living on campus please see here , and you may also find it useful to read our guide to private sector accommodation .
Find out about applying for student visas
Find out pre-departure information for international students
Discover our orientation and welcome programme
If you’re intending to move around during your initial application, keep us up to date with your contact details.
We will send out important information regarding your application process, during this time.
Keep us informed of your contact information
See our latest news updates on social media.
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Check us out on Instagram.
In August, we launch our enrolment webpages, which provide further information on the online sign-up, enrolment process and how to make fee payments.
They also give you useful arrival information and details on what you can expect during your first few weeks on campus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/admissions-policy-and-procedures:
Admissions policy and procedures
At Royal Holloway we’re committed to operating a fair, transparent and professional admissions process, with all applications considered on an equal basis by a trained admissions team.
In support of fair admissions, Royal Holloway strives to:
The Admissions Policy ( 2025/26 ) sets out the position of Royal Holloway on key matters relating to the recruitment and admissions to all undergraduate and postgraduate (taught and research) programmes of study.
It is strongly recommended that you download and read a copy.
When you accept an offer of a place to study at Royal Holloway, University of London a legal contract is formed between you and the university on the basis of the terms and conditions ( 2025/26 ) of the offer.
This document summarises those terms and conditions.
It contains important information and you need to read it carefully and ensure you understand its contents before accepting your offer.
We advise that you make yourself familiar with the Student Policies and Procedures when you accept your offer.
The majority of students at Royal Holloway are 18 or above, and the academic life and social environment of the university reflect this.
However, we recognise that some individuals who have already met the entry requirements for study can start at a younger age.
The university strongly recommends that applicants who will be under 17 years of age on entry consider carefully whether they would be able to benefit fully from the educational and social opportunities on offer.
The university does not accept an in loco parentis responsibility for children (i.e.
those under 18 years of age at entry).
The university does however recognise it has a duty of care and is committed to protecting children, young people and vulnerable adults from harm.
Applicants who will be under the age of 16 on entry are not permitted to enrol at the university.
Any such applicants will, where appropriate, be offered a deferred entry place.
If this is not possible the application will be rejected.
Applicants who will be under 18 years of age on the published start date of the programme, and their parents and guardians, must confirm to the university as a condition of registration:
If you are under 18 years of age, then you will need the consent of your parents or guardians in order to study here.
You can find our Under 18’s Parent or Guardian Information and Consent Form here.
Who assesses my questionnaire?
A fully trained member of the Admissions team will assess your fee status questionnaire once received.
The Admissions Office also follows guidelines suggested by the UK Council for International Student Advice (UKCISA).
The University seeks to make fair and accurate judgments at all times.
Should we require further information, we will contact you in writing.
Please note:  We cannot discuss personal fee status liability over the telephone or via email before an official assessment is made by the University’s Admissions Office.
Please also note that if you do not submit the necessary documents, this will delay assessment and could delay your future enrolment.
Where can I find the results of my assessment?
You can view the outcome of your fee status assessment on the application portal.
You will need to input your personal student reference number found at the top of your offer letter.
View the outcome on the application portal.
How to appeal the fee status decision?
Should you wish to appeal the decision made, please contact us for further advice.
Please note, in some circumstances, a student is eligible to change their fee status after the first day of their first year of academic studies.
To find out whether you are eligible, please contact us for further advice.
Alternatively, if you are an International Applicant, find out more at UKCISA
What documents should I submit?
Some applicants will need to submit documentary evidence supporting their fee status questionnaire.
Not all applicants will need to submit these documents.
Typically, we will require supporting documents from applicants who have not always lived in the UK, are not British citizens, or have been absent from the UK for a significant period of time.
The documents required for assessment may be one or more of the following:
a) Clear whole photocopies of your passport or proof of citizenship
b) Proof of Indefinite Leave to Remain / Right of Abode
c) Proof of Exceptional Leave to Remain / Enter / Humanitarian Protection / Discretionary Leave or Proof of Refugee status
d)  If your main residence has been outside of the UK, then we would require proof that you have been regularly returning to the UK e.g.
Flight itineraries.
In certain circumstances, we may also request a letter from your parents' employer, should your parents' work have taken you out of the UK on a temporary basis.
Where photocopies of documents have been provided, applicants will be expected to show the original documents at enrolment.
For international students, UKCISA publish comprehensive guidance notes on fee status.
We recommend that if you disagree with our fee assessment you should send in a fee status questionnaire before 31 July 2025 for September entry.
1.1.
The arrangements for transfers between courses at Royal Holloway is detailed in the Process to Change Degree Programme for Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Students.
1.2.
Students who wish to change their degree programme must meet the standard entry requirements of the programme that they wish to transfer to and may also be asked to write a statement as to why they wish to change degree.
The Department/School and Student Administration approve changes to degree programmes and making the request does not mean that it will be approved.
Some students may not be able to change degree programme, for example, students with a Student Visa sponsored by the University may not be able to change programme due to visa restrictions.
Continuing students can request to change degree programme after results have been published in the summer up to the end of the third week of teaching.
After the third week of teaching, only a Change of Pathway request or a Change in Award or Progression request can be made.
1.3.
This guidance does not apply to students who have not yet started their first year of study on a Royal Holloway programme.
For undergraduate study
2.1.
Our approach is detailed in the Admissions Policy under Accreditation of Prior Learning paragraph 8.36.
2.2.
'The College will consider undergraduate applicants for second year entry on an individual basis.
Vacancies for second year entry are extremely limited and may not be available in all departments.
Applicants wishing to apply for second year entry should demonstrate a strong academic performance in their current course and will normally be required to meet the first year entry requirements for the course they are applying for.
In addition, applicants need to meet the required progression requirements.
Any applicants wishing to apply for second year entry must do so via UCAS.'
For postgraduate taught study
2.3.
Our approach is detailed in the Postgraduate Academic Regulation in Section 2: Recognition of Prior Learning .
The most relevant paragraph is copied below:
2.4.
'Applicants with accredited prior learning deemed acceptable to the College may be admitted with advanced standing to postgraduate study only in up to two thirds of the programme.
The College will consider the recognition of accredited prior learning and the recording of such learning as exemption from part of the programme subject to the following conditions: (a) credit will be recognised only for learning which has been verified through reliable and valid assessment, unless otherwise specified as part of an institutional agreement; (b) the College will only consider for the purposes of recognition of prior learning and exemption information on courses and examination results provided and certified by the appropriate officer at the institution responsible for the delivery of those courses.'
2.5.
Postgraduate taught courses at Royal Holloway are one year in duration, so requests for transfer are very rare.
In order to transfer onto a postgraduate taught course, students are required to meet our minimum entry requirements for postgraduate study (as detailed on our website), and the modules they have already studied at another institution must be deemed to be of similar academic context to the modules they will have missed at Royal Holloway.
Due to the structure of modules, students can only transfer to start in January.
For postgraduate research study
2.6.
Our approach is detailed in our Research Degree Regulations under Arrangements for admissions, registration and enrolment paragraph 4.1.
2.7.
An applicant who has followed a programme of postgraduate research of at least twelve months of full-time study, or 24 months of part-time study at another institution may be considered for exemption from part of a an MPhil or PhD programme at the College.
A student who started a Masters by Research with the College and wishes to transfer to an MPhil or PhD programme may be considered for exemption from part of an MPhil or PhD programme at the University.
2.8.
To transfer onto a postgraduate research study, students are are required to meet our minimum entry requirements for postgraduate study (as detailed on our website), and the department will need to confirm the availability of a relevant supervisor.
Once these requirements are confirmed, an application to study can be made via our website.
The department will advise regarding when enrolment can take place.
3.1.Students who wish to transfer from Royal Holloway to another Higher Education provider are considered in the same way as students who withdraw.
3.2.
Students who wish to withdraw are required to submit one of the following forms:
3.3.
Students who wish to withdraw must arrange an appointment with their Personal Advisor, Academic Co-ordinator or Head of Department to discuss the details of their withdrawal request before the form is completed and signed by the student and the academic department.
Cancelling acceptance prior to enrolment
Applicants have the right to withdraw their application at any time before enrolment when there is no fee liability.
Any deposit will be refunded if the withdrawal request is made within 14 days of payment or within 14 days of the original acceptance of the offer if teaching of the course has not commenced.
An admin fee may be charged in some circumstances.
This will be done in accordance with the table below:
Within 14 days of offer acceptance or deposit payment
After 14 days of offer acceptance or deposit payment
International Student Deposit: £3,000 Or £10,000 if specifically required for CAS issuance
Full refund*
(minus £100 admin fee where a CAS has been issued)
No refund
except in the below circumstances**
Home Students
Full refund
**Cancelling acceptance after 14 days
After the 14-day cooling off period post offer acceptance or deposit payment, deposits are non-transferable between individuals/organisations and non-refundable except in the event of a deferral or the following circumstances where:
*Please note, the following are NOT considered an appropriate recognised funding body:
Important notes:
Find out how to make an application complaint
In the first instance, please contact Admissions below informally at;
Admissions Office
Royal Holloway, University of London Egham Surrey TW20 0EX
Telephone: +44 (0)1784 414944
Email: applicants@rhul.ac.uk
Fax: +44 (0)1784 473662
If you have applied via an agent supported by our strategic partner, Study Group, please send your complaint to RHapplicants@studygroup.com .
See our guidance for parents and supporters .
Student Protection Plan
The plan tells you, as a student or applicant, what actions will be taken if a course, the campus or the whole institution closes.
The plan outlines our assessment of the risk of these things happening and the measures we have in place to protect you as our students in the event one of these risks actually takes place and impacts on the continuation of your studies.
Royal Holloway has a clear commitment to preserving the continuation of study for all students.
Any issues that arise relating to this are brought to the attention of the Executive Board.
If this plan needs to be triggered, then this document explains how we will support you to continue or complete your studies or compensate you if this was not possible.
This Student Protection Plan is reviewed annually by the Executive Board, Council (the Universities governing body), and the Students Union.
All current students and applicants who have firmly accepted the offer of a place at Royal Holloway are covered by the plan.
The key risks to the University’s ability to deliver courses are as follows:
The University would trigger the Student Protection Plan and in the first instance would strive to support you to complete your studies (this is often referred to as ‘teaching out’).
If we were unable to continue your studies then we would assist you to transfer to a related alternative course within the university, or if appropriate, to another institution.
In the unlikely event that you had to transfer to an alternative provider then consideration would be given to ensure the alternative course was ‘comparable’, in terms of graduate prospects and student satisfaction levels.
If we were unable to support you to continue your studies then the university will consider reimbursing and compensating you in line with Student Fee Regulations .
The Student Protection Plan is intended to offer you reassurance that we have appropriate measures in place to offer you protection.
We work hard to ensure the measures in place greatly reduce the need for the plan to be triggered.
For example we have robust financial sustainability, we take CMA guidance very seriously, we ensure we provide good quality degrees and we have good governance systems.
Our business continuity plans ensure that we can continue to deliver courses and assessment during any temporary campus closure, while ensuring that academic standards are met.
Academic and Student Support services all have the ability to continue to provide delivery of services online to support your needs.
Through the plan, Royal Holloway offers a clear commitment to preserving the continuation of study for all current and potential students.
We worked with the Student Union to develop this plan and we will continue to collaborate with students each time this plan is updated.
The Student Protection Plan is a requirement for registration with the Office for Students who are the regulators of Higher Education.
The Student Protection Plan can be read in full here .
You can read our Access and Participation plan (2020/21- 2024/25) document and summary .
Our 2019/20 APP monitoring – provider impact report can be found here .
Information on our fee limits can be found below:
2021-22 fee information summary
2022-23 fee information summary
2023-24 fee information summary
2024-25 fee information summary
Here you can read our application analysis document and HESA submission.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/clubs-and-societies:
Clubs and societies
Whether you're into opera or rugby, there are lots of exciting ways to get involved in life at Royal Holloway.
Run by our Students' Union, o ur sports clubs, societies and media outlets each have their individual area of focus and unique personalities.
Find out more about what's on offer with the pages below:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/research/research-excellence-framework:
Research Excellence Framework
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
The REF objectives are to:
The REF outcomes are used to inform the allocation of around £2 billion per year of public funding for universities’ research.
The REF assessment evaluates:
The REF is conducted on every seven-eight years.
The REF was first carried out in 2014, replacing the previous Research Assessment Exercise.
The most recent exercise was REF 2021.
The most recent iteration of the exercise concluded in 2021.
Royal Holloway submitted to 19 disciplinary units of assessment (UoAs).
Across those disciplines, we submitted:
The results of REF2021 confirm Royal Holloway’s position in the top 25% of UK Universities for research.
Key highlights from the University’s REF results include:
Work is underway to prepare for the REF 2029 assessment exercise.
More information on preparations can be found on our internal website ( add link to intranet )
External Links
More information on training and engagement events for REF 2029 can be found on our internal website .
REF@rhul.ac.uk
Research Excellence Manager

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/research/research-environment/research-institutes-and-centres:
Research institutes and centres
If you can’t find the research group you’re looking for, it may not be an 'institute' or a 'centre'.
Have a look under the relevant department or school.
Centre for AI and Skills
Centre for Algorithms and Complexity
Centre for Critical and Historical Research on Organisation and Society
Centre for Global South Asia
Centre for Intelligent Systems
Centre for International Security
Centre for Macroeconomic and Labour Economics
Centre for Mathematical and Theoretical Economics
Centre for Plant Molecular Sciences
Centre for Programming Languages and Systems
Centre for Reliable Machine Learning
Centre for Research into Sustainability
Centre for the Economics of the Household
Centre for the GeoHumanities
Centre for the History of Television Culture and Production
Centre for the Study and Application of Stoicism
Centre for the Study of Emotion and Law
Centre for the Study of Pain
Centre in Combinatorial Methods in Algebra, Number Theory and Applications (CANTA)
Centre of Gene and Cell Therapy (CGCT)
Combined University Brain Imaging Centre
Conflict, Violence and Terrorism Research Centre
Contemporary British Theatre
CoSTAR National Lab
Democracy and Elections Centre
Digital Organisation and Society Research Centre
Ecology, Evolution and Behaviour
Engineering Research Centre
Experimental Particle Physics
Gender Institute
Geopolitics, Development, Security and Justice Research Group
Global Politics and Development Centre
Hellenic Institute
Holocaust Research Institute
Humanities and Arts Research Institute
Institute of Cardiovascular Research
ISG Smart Card Centre
London Centre for Public History and Heritage
New Political Communication Unit
Omnidrome Research and Innovation Centre
Oratory and Rhetoric
Poetics Research Centre
Quaternary Research
Reception of Greece and Rome
Robust Inference in a Digital Economy
Social, Cultural & Historical Geography Group
StoryFutures
Study of the Body and Material Culture
Systems and Synthetic Biology
TeacherHub>English
The Bedford Centre for the History of Women and Gender
Victorian Studies
Visual Cultures
Workplace Research in Asian Societies

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/open-day-guide:
More information about our Open Day talks will be added ahead of our next event.
Please use the filter tool ( ) above to find talks for your chosen department.
Don’t forget to also grab a free hot drink from the gazebo in Founder’s Square or in the Student Lounge in the Windsor Building.
Café on the Square: 9am-4pm
Crosslands: 10am-4pm
The Hub: 11.30am-2.30pm
Union Shop: 8am-11pm
Boilerhouse Café: 9am-4pm
The Packhorse: From 11am
Food stalls outside Students' Union: 8.30am-4pm
Tikka Nation: 10am-4pm
More information about our Open Day tours will be added ahead of our next event.
Once you arrive on campus, head straight for our registration points in the Picture Gallery or Students' Union so our friendly Student Ambassadors can check you in and give you all the information you need for your visit with us, including your goodie bag!
Come to the Emily Wilding Davison Building to find out about the student support at Royal Holloway.
Meet teams including health and wellbeing, the Careers Service, student finance, Integrated Foundation Year and the Students’ Union.
The info point in the Davison Building foyer is where you’ll be able to get First Aid and ask any general questions.
Free Wi-Fi is available all day.
Use CampusNet, register as a visitor and follow the instructions provided.
Head to Founder's Square to find out more about our sports clubs.
Drop by Founder’s Square to hear our very own radio station, run by Royal Holloway students, broadcasting live.
If you need a breather, pop in to our Student Lounge (in the Windsor Building).
Don't forget to capture some memories of your day in our photobooth, located in the Davison Building foyer!
Got some extra time at the end of the day?
Why not head out to some of our local towns to explore what's available for students in the local area.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway/open-days/travelling-to-the-open-day:
Travelling to the Open Day
Our Open Days take place at our main campus in Egham.
There is limited free parking available on site.
As you approach our campus and entrances on Egham Hill/A30, you’ll be directed to a space by our parking attendants.
We expect peak arrivals to be between 8.30am-9.30am and 11.30am-12.30pm.
There is no need to register for parking.
Train
Our nearest train station is Egham, which is 40 minutes by train from central London and a short walk or bus journey from campus.
Plan your train journey to Egham on the National Rail website .
You can pay as you go with a contactless card or device if you are travelling into Egham - more information can be found here .
Please do not use your Oystercard for your journey, as this will not be valid as travel payment.
Bus
There are regular buses running from various towns in the local area, including Windsor and Staines.
We will also be running a free shuttle bus service from and to Egham train station, which will depart every 15 minutes throughout the day.
The final bus to leave campus for the station will depart at 5.20pm.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway/open-days/top-tips-for-your-open-day-visit:
Top tips for your Open Day visit
Open Days are the best way to get a feel for life at university.
Take a look at the Open Day guide before arriving to find out when and where things are happening - please note that exact details of talk timings and locations will be confirmed closer to our next event.
We have academic department and general talks running all day, giving you information about your chosen course and the support we offer.
Talks are repeated morning and afternoon so you’ll be able to attend as many as possible.
You’ll get to talk to a leading academic in your field of interest and ask any questions you may have about your course.
Have a chat with our current students and find out more about your course, clubs and societies, accommodation, and anything else that you may like to know about university life.
Our student ambassadors will show you around our beautiful campus, so you can see where you may live and what the facilities are like.
You’ll get to tour some of the accommodation and speak to students living on campus to see what options may suit your needs.
Get involved in any interactive sessions that are offered in specific departments, such as robotics demonstrations and laboratory exercises.
Take time for a break and have something to eat or drink at one of our cafés.
Pick up any handy guides or take notes of anything that you are interested in and visit our website for more information.
If you haven’t already, view our online undergraduate prospectus if you have any questions after your visit.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway/open-days/faqs:
Frequently Asked Questions
You can view our Open Day guide online here to find out when and where things are happening - please note that exact details of talk timings and locations will be confirmed closer to our next event.
Y ou can also collect a printed copy when you arrive at registration.
You don't need to print your ticket, simply turn up on the day and we will check you in by the name you booked with.
No, your guests do not need their own tickets, but when booking a student ticket you will be asked to let us know how many guests you will be bringing.
Please also be aware that if talks reach capacity, we may ask only one guest to be attending with you and this is to give other prospective students the opportunity to attend.
You can amend your booking by logging on to the Eventbrite website by clicking 'Tickets' from the drop-down menu under your name, select the ticket and then 'edit'.
If you wish to cancel your booking, select the ticket and then click 'cancel order'
The campus tour portion of this visit will take approximately one hour.
If you require a step-free route, please let your Student Ambassador know on the day.
To find out more about general accessibility on campus, please view our AccessAble profile .
You can get in touch with us at opendays@rhul.ac.uk or +44 (0)1784 414112 .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway/postgraduate-events:
Postgraduate Events
We have many exciting opportunities to find out more about postgraduate study at Royal Holloway, University of London.
Events take place both online and in person, so there is something to suit everyone.
Our Postgraduate Open Afternoons offer you the ability to come and explore our Egham and Central London campuses in person and our Postgraduate Online Events emulate the Open Afternoon experience online.
Postgraduate Webinars provide an all-you-need-to-know guide to applying for postgraduate study in a single hour-long session and Postgraduate Taster Lectures , run by some of our world-leading academic staff, introduce you to key themes and ideas you're likely to explore at postgraduate level.
We also run subject-specific Focus Weeks on our social media channels.
Find out more and book your place using links below.
You can also watch recordings of previous webinars by signing up here .
August
Date and Time
Tuesday 19 August
9-10am
Pre-Departure Webinar:
Preparing for Arrival and Life in the UK
International Team
5-6pm
You are welcome to meet with academic staff from around the university and can book meetings directly with them using the links below.
If you cannot see your preferred course available then please email PGEvents@royalholloway.ac.uk and we will set up a meeting for you.
Our Postgraduate Recruitment Manager, Jonathan Brierley, is available to chat to in person or online.
We're always happy to connect for an informal chat about anything you'd like to discuss related to postgraduate study.
Book your one-to-one appointment with the Postgraduate Student Recruitment Manager
Alternatively, you can message Jonathan on our Unibuddy platform if you prefer a text conversation.
If you prefer to meet in person then please email and we'd be happy to arrange a time to meet our postgraduate recruitment manager on campus.
Unfortunately we are unable to hold in person meetings at our Central London campus without prior notice.
If you would like to meet us in central London then please email and we will aim to set this up for you.
Egham campus
Parking is free for all guests at the Open Evenings and Postgraduate visit afternoons.
We will be in touch closer to the event to advise which parking has been allocated to you.
Parking is limited in London, so we recommend using public transportation if possible.
If you are driving then there is a number of car parks in the local area and we advise you carry out your own research into these prior to travelling.
The nearest train station is Egham and Royal Holloway operates a shuttle system that runs from the station to campus most of the year.
The main campus is around a 20 minute walk from Egham train station and it is also serviced by the number 8 and 441 local buses.
Our Central London campus is located at 11 Bedford Square, Stewart House and Senate House.
Nearby Underground stations include: Tottenham Court Road (Central and Northern lines), Goodge Street (Northern Line), Holborn (Central and Piccadilly lines), Russell Square (Piccadilly line), Euston Square (Circle, Hammersmith & City and Metropolitan lines).
It can also be access by numerous bus routes, we recommend using Transport for London’s journey planner for specific routes.
You don't need to print your ticket, simply turn up on the evening and we will look up your ticket by the name you booked with.
No, you won't need to book separate tickets for your guests.
Do bring along any friends or family who you would like to share the day with, but please note that in some of our busier talks we may have to implement a one guest per visitor system.
Our programme for the Open Evening will be released before the event via email.
It's a great idea to plan your visit and have a think about the talks you would like to attend, but don't worry as you do not have to book any sessions in advance (unless you would like to book a session with our Admissions Team to receive an 'on the spot' offer to study with us, available for selected courses).
You can amend your booking by logging on to the Eventbrite website by clicking ‘Tickets’ from the drop-down menu under your name, select the ticket and then 'edit'.
If you'd prefer, email PGEvents@royalholloway.ac.uk and we can do this for you.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway/book-a-campus-tour:
Book a campus tour
Don't take our word for it - book a tour of our campus to see it for yourself.
Come to our campus to view the fantastic facilities, see where you could be studying and living and find out more about what Royal Holloway has to offer.
We run regular guided tours of our Egham campus, or if you can't make the dates, you're welcome to come along for a self-led tour.
Whether you're planning us to join us this September, or are thinking further ahead, we can't wait to show off our incredible campus.
Explore our campus with one of our friendly student ambassadors, who'll also answer all your questions about what it's like to be a student here.
See our FAQs below for more information, including where you'll need to meet and how to get here.
More information about our next guided campus tours will be available soon.
If you're an international student , visit the page below for more information on how to book a guided tour.
If you can't make one of our guided tours, you're welcome to come along for a self-led tour.
You'll just need to register so we know you're coming and we'll send you a guide to help you find your way around.
Find out more by reading our FAQs below.
If you have any questions that aren't covered below, please contact campus-tours@royalholloway.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1784 414112 .
One of our Student Ambassadors will be waiting to meet you in the Emily Wilding Davison Building foyer.
They'll be wearing a bright orange top so you can't miss them.
We recommend you arrive about 10 minutes before your booked time.
We can't guarantee you'll be able to see inside our halls but you will get to see where they are on campus and have a look at the outside of the buildings.
Virtual tours of our halls are available here .
The guided tour takes approximately 30 minutes but you're welcome to stay as long as you like.
Why not grab a drink or snack at one of our cafes?
Your student ambassador will be able to point out the academic buildings you're interested in and you may be able to have a look inside.
If you'd like to speak directly to academic staff, we recommend coming along to one of our Open Days , or contacting them directly for an informal chat.
You can bring as many guests as you like and will only need one booking for yourself and your guests.
Let us know your car's details when you register, so that we can add you to our system for the day and you'll be able to park in one of our car parks.
Please note, we aren't able to guarantee a parking space and the car parks can get busy.
If you decide to drive after completing your booking form, you can contact us on +44 (0)1784 414112 or campus-tours@royalholloway.ac.uk to register your vehicle.
Egham railway station is the nearest station to campus.
It's about 1.2 miles away and there are bus and taxi services between the station and campus.
Yes!
We'll accept bookings right up to the tour start time.
Just click on the button above to book your place.
You can amend, update or cancel your booking in Eventbrite using the My Events page.
If you're having any problems, just contact us on +44 (0)1784 414112 or campus-tours@royalholloway.ac.uk and we'll be able to help.
If you decide to drive after completing your booking form, contact us on +44 (0)1784 414112 or campus-tours@royalholloway.ac.uk to register your vehicle.
You won't be able to see inside any accommodation as part of a self-led tour but you'll be able to see outside the buildings.
Virtual tours of our Halls are available here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/schools-and-colleges/videos-and-resources/webinars:
Webinars
Join one of our webinars to find out everything you need to know about applying and preparing for university.
Our webinars are run by a team of experts dedicated to making sure future students have all the information they need about going to university.
Check out our upcoming webinars below and register your place by following the links.
Sessions are aimed mainly at UK students.
If you're an international student you're still welcome to join but also check out our international pages.
Tuesday 12 August 2025, 5-6pm
Find out more about joining university through Clearing.
We'll talk through who might use Clearing, how to prepare for results day and what to do if you need to use Clearing.
You'll also be able to ask nay questions you have about the Clearing process.
This session is mainly aimed at UK students looking to use Clearing to start university in September 2025.
A webinar series
This session covers how the student finance system works in the UK, giving an insight into the application process and also offering some top tips on budgeting when living as a full time student.
This session covers the process of applying to a UK university through UCAS, before discussing how you can stand out with a strong Personal Statement.
From how to prepare yourself beforehand, to the practicalities of picking up the phone and making a call, this session will leave you understanding how Clearing works and give you some top tips to follow should you use the Clearing system.
This webinar covers all the final steps in supporting you finish off your UCAS application before that deadline day!
This session covers how the Student Finance system works in the UK, what some of the different options are for funding your studies, before then leaving you with some top tips for managing your finances when you start at university.
Please note that funding information in this Webinar will apply mainly to UK students and will be most relevant for 2023/24 entry to university.
We know that the journey to Higher Education can be overwhelming, take a look at our recent webinar where we talk through everything you need to know about Royal Holloway, from our accommodation to the clubs and societies you can join.
Our wonderful student ambassadors are on hand to share their experiences at Royal Holloway so far.
This session will guide you through the choosing process, discussing what and where you can study, before then leaving you with some top tips for practically researching your options.
From clubs and societies, to the wide range of support available to you, this session will guide you through the important things you need to know about everyday life as a student at Royal Holloway.
Webinars created for parents and supporters of students interested in studying at Royal Holloway for advice and tips on best supporting your student through the university application process.
A webinar Series
A webinar series for Year 12 Students, where you will gain an introduction to University, learn about the application process, and discover what you can do now to make your choices and strengthen your application
The easiest way to get in touch is to email schools@royalholloway.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1784 414364
For updates on our courses, events and what our students are saying about us, sign up to our student mailing list
For more information on how we can support you and your students, sign up to our monthly schools newsletter

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/tuition-fees:
Undergraduate tuition fees
Whatever undergraduate degree you choose at Royal Holloway, there is an annual fee.
This fee varies depending on whether you’re a UK resident or live outside of the UK.
2025/26:
The tuition fee for students starting their degree in 2025/26 will be £9,535 for that year.
There is a different fee for a year spent abroad or working in industry.
Tuition fees are reviewed each year and Royal Holloway reserves the right to increase tuition fees annually for all students.
The annual increase for continuing UK students starting their course in 2025/26 will be determined by UK Government policy, capped to a maximum of 5% (excludes some Foundation Year courses, see below).
Please therefore be aware that tuition fees can rise during your degree.
For students starting some Foundation Year courses in 2025/26, a lower fee for the Foundation Year element of the course may apply.
Once you move into Year 1 of your main degree, you will be charged the same fee as other undergraduate students studying that degree in that year.
Find specific fee details for your course by searching for your course.
2026/27:
Tuition fees are controlled by Government regulations and have not yet been confirmed for the academic year 2026/27.
The annual increase for continuing UK students starting their course in 2026/27 will be determined by UK Government policy, capped to a maximum of 7.5% (may exclude some Foundation Year courses, please find specific detail by searching for your course ).
Please therefore be aware that tuition fees can rise during your degree
For EU students starting their course with us in 2025/26, the international fee applies.
See fee details by searching for your course .
The annual increase for continuing EU and International students starting their course in 2025/26 will be determined as part of our annual review, and will be based on the UK’s Retail Price Index (RPI), capped to a maximum of 5%.
For EU students starting their course with us in 2026/27, the international fee applies.
The annual increase for continuing EU and International students starting their course in 2026/27 will be determined as part of our annual review, and will be based on the UK’s Retail Price Index (RPI), capped to a maximum of 7.5%.
Your tuition fee will be for the year of entry, not for the year in which the application was made.
You can fund your tuition fee in a number of ways, including student loans and paying them yourself.
Find out more about paying your fees .
The UK Government sets guidelines on who is eligible for Home (UK) fee status.
Read guidance on who qualifies
Please note that holding a UK passport does not automatically qualify you to be eligible for Home fees.
You also need to meet residency requirements.
When you apply to Royal Holloway a provisional decision is made on your fee status.
You can check this on the Royal Holloway Applicant Portal , once an offer is made.
For further information see our Admissions Policies and Procedures .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/bursaries:
Bursaries
Our automatic bursaries could give you a cash boost when you start university.
We provide a range of bursaries for undergraduate Home fee students (paying tuition fees of £9,535 in the 2025/2026 academic year), who may need some extra financial support.
Check the information below to check if you're eligible for one.
You won't need to apply for a bursary as they're automatically awarded to eligible students meeting the criteria.
Contact studentservices@rhul.ac.uk for more information on bursaries.
There's plenty of other financial support available once you're a student at Royal Holloway.
Cash award of £3,000 in each year of study
This bursary is for full-time students from the UK who are assessed as care leavers or have 'independent - other' status on Student Finance England.
It is a cash award paid in three instalments over the academic year.
To be eligible for this bursary, you must be:
You must also fulfil one of the following criteria:
£1,000 for each year of study
This bursary is available to mature students from the UK and is paid as a cash award in instalments by BACS.
To be eligible for this bursary you must:
Other information:
£1,300 for each year of study
This bursary is for students from the UK with a family income of less than £25,000 a year.
It is paid as a cash award of £1,300, which is paid by BACS in instalments.
£500 in each year of study
This bursary is for students from the UK with a family income of between £25,000 and £30,000 a year.
It is paid as a cash award of £500, which is paid by BACS in a single instalment.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/government-funding:
Government funding
You should start thinking about applying for financial help as soon as you apply for a place on a degree.
Don’t wait until your place is confirmed, simply quote the degree you’re planning to study.
If this information changes, just let us know.
Find useful Student Finance information
This covers your full tuition fee, so you don't need to pay any undergraduate fees to Royal Holloway.
This helps with everyday living expenses while you are studying.
All eligible applicants are entitled to a maximum loan amount depending on household income.
From the April after you graduate, the threshold at which you begin paying back your undergraduate loans will be £26,575.
Repayments are calculated as a percentage of your income over £26,575 and usually made automatically through the UK tax system.
Available to students with children, adults who are financially dependent on them and students with disabilities including mental-health or specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia or dyspraxia.
How you apply for funding depends on where you are living in the UK.
For further information visit:
Student Finance England
Student Awards Agency for Scotland
Student Finance Wales
Student Finance Northern Ireland
Once you’ve applied, there are a number of stages your application goes through before you receive the loan.
Tuition fee loans for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) courses will now be available to students in England who’ve already completed an undergraduate degree.
This is designed to help those already in the workforce or with non-STEM degrees to upskill.
For all STEM subjects, tuition loans will be extended to students wishing to do a second part-time degree.
Here is specific advice for students applying for financial support who have a home address in England.
Step 1 - Register online with Student Finance England
New students should register with Student Finance England
Registering provides you with unique security details so you can access your student finance account online or when you call.
Step 2 - Log in
Once registered, you can use your customer reference number and passwords to access your online account.
Step 3 - Create and submit an application
Once you have logged into your account there will be an option to make an application for your student loan.
Step 4 - Providing evidence
You will need to provide evidence to support your application, including a document or details to verify your identity, such as a passport number.
Step 5 - Maintaining your account
From ‘My account’ you can:
If you’re an EU Student applying for an undergraduate place in 2020/21, you will continue to have access to student loans for tuition fees, if eligible, for the duration of your degree.
If you are an EU national who has resided in the UK for over five years, you will also have access to undergraduate maintenance support.
For more information visit Student Financial Services
Unfortunately, you are not entitled to apply for funding from the UK government towards your tuition or living costs.
Your own government may, however, provide a scholarship scheme to help you study overseas, or there may be banks in your country that offer international student loans.
If you are applying from the USA you may be eligible for Direct Stafford and PLUS Federal loans, and veterans’ benefits if you are a veteran of the US Military.
If you are applying from Canada you may be eligible for loans from your government.
Your local British Council office should be able to provide information on scholarship and loan schemes available in your country, as well as general scholarship schemes that you may be eligible for.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/postgraduate/tuition-fees:
Postgraduate tuition fees
All postgraduate taught courses have an annual fee that covers all academic-related costs, such as teaching and supervision, use of the library and computing facilities, examinations and administration.
You’ll also need to take into account your living costs.
All postgraduate taught courses have an annual fee that covers all academic-related costs, such as teaching and supervision, use of the library and IT facilities, exams and administration.
The amount you pay depends on whether you're a UK resident, or live outside the UK.
The fees for both Home (UK) and EU/International students starting their course in September 2025/6 are available on course finder .
The annual increase for postgraduate students starting their course in 2025/26 is determined as part of our annual fees review, and will be based on the UK’s Retail Price Index (RPI), capped to a maximum of 5%.
If you are starting a course in January 2026, please note that different information about fees and annual increases applies.
Royal Holloway graduates who apply for a postgraduate course automatically receive a 15% discount on tuition fees for the first year of study.
There is no need to apply.
(Terms and conditions apply)
If you have graduated from another University of London institution you can receive a 10% discount on tuition fees (Terms and conditions apply).
If you’re paying tuition fees yourself and are not applying for support and loans for fees via Student Finance England or Student Finance Services, you can opt to pay your fees in two equal instalments.
You need to pay at least 50% of the fee by enrolment in the first term.
The second payment is then required during the first week of the second term, in January.
If you have an approved postgraduate loan you can pay in instalments that match your loan payments.
For more information see our postgraduate information on Student Finance

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/postgraduate/living-costs:
The living costs of your postgraduate studies
However, we suggest you should think in terms of a minimum of £12,500 for a single person on campus, per year, to cover accommodation, food, personal expenses, study-related costs and some limited travel.
International students will also need to take into account various settling-in expenses, including travel to and within the UK, visas and travel and health insurance.
*Based on average prices of 3 students in a three-bedroom shared house
** Utilities are included in on-campus accommodation
More information for commuting
For a clearer idea of rent and travel costs you can use our calculator , which uses information from The Trainline.com, Transport for London and University of London Housing Guide.
To use the calculator just follow the steps below:
Step 1 - select a campus – Egham or central London
Step 2 - select the area you’ll be commuting from (town, city, village or London borough and/or first half of postcode)
Step 3 - hit search to see the average cost of rent and travel costs to campus.
You can also select Impact on academic progression as ‘green’ to find locations within 30-minutes of the campus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/postgraduate/continue-your-education:
Continue your education
Financial support for Royal Holloway alumni
We have a fabulous range of postgraduate degrees on offer, both taught and research, many of which are unique to Royal Holloway or recognised as some of the leading courses within their discipline.
Details of this discount will be added to your Campus Connect account when you enrol for your Postgraduate course.
The discount will not be included in your offer letter.
Please note that the alumni discount cannot be used in conjunction with any other Royal Holloway scholarships or discounts which provide a reduction to tuition fees.
Whether you choose to continue your education at the Egham campus, or go for a more metropolitan experience at the Central London campus , you'll receive the same excellent support and facilities Royal Holloway offers, and continue to play a role in the life of our academic community into the future.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/research-degrees/tuition-fees:
Tuition fees
Before applying for a research degree at Royal Holloway, it’s worth considering how you’ll fund your studies.
We charge an annual tuition fee for all postgraduate research (PGR) degrees.
The actual fee depends on the department in which you are studying.
Part-time fees are approximately half the full-time fee.
Tuition fees can be paid in full at any time up until you enrol.
Find out how to pay your fees .
For PGR students who are entitled to a 15% alumni discount, this will be applied in the following way:
Please note that tuition fee instalments are not available to sponsors.
Programme
Home (UK)** fees 2024/25
Home (UK)** fees 2025/26
MRes Cultural Geography and MRes Geopolitics, Development, Security and Justice
£9,000
£9,800
MRes Classical Reception and MRes Rhetoric (Master of Research)
£10,600
£11,600
MSc Biological Sciences by Research
£7,786 (includes the £3,000 bench fee)*
£8,006 (includes the £3,000 bench fee)*
All other research degrees (including Masters by Research)
£4,786
£5,006
*Each year, UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) usually increase their fee levels in line with inflation, based on the Treasury GDP deflator.
Minimum fees recommended by the Research Councils are adopted as the Home tuition fee for all postgraduate research at Royal Holloway, University of London.
Be aware that tuition fees can rise during your research degree, and that this also means that the overall cost of studying the course part-time will be slightly higher than studying it full-time in one year.
Department/programme
Standard international student (including EU**) fee 2024/25
Standard international student (including EU**) fee 2025/26
£26,300
£28,700
£29,300 (includes the £3,000 bench fee)
£31,700 (includes the £3,000 bench fee)
£23,400
MRes (Master of Research, Classics)
£21,700
£19,700
£21,500
£32,300 (includes the £6,000 bench fee)
£34,700 (includes the £6,000 bench fee)
£25,500
£18,200
Social Work
**The UK Government has confirmed that EU students will not be eligible to pay the same fees as UK students.
This means you will be classified as an international student.
The annual increase for international postgraduate students starting their course in 2025/26 is determined as part of our annual fees review, and will be based on the UK’s Retail Price Index (RPI), capped to a maximum of 5%.
NB: A 'Writing Up' fee will come into effect in year four (full-time study) or year seven (part-time study).

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/research-degrees/sources-of-funding:
Research degree studentships and funding
Royal Holloway is committed to supporting and developing the next generation of researchers.
We recognise funding is often an obstacle for talented students, so we offer a variety of funding packages which include studentships funded by the University, the Research Councils and external partners.
For information about studentships in your discipline please contact the Director of Postgraduate Research Education or the Recruitment Lead in the relevant Department.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/how-to-pay-your-fees:
How to pay your fees
How your fees are paid to Royal Holloway depends on who is paying them - yourself, a sponsor, or a government loan, for instance.
You can view your tuition and accommodation fees on Campus Connect, under 'Account Details'.
If a parent or guardians are paying fees on behalf of a student, it is the responsibility of the student to inform parents or guardians of their fee amount by sharing the information available to them on Campus Connect.
If a parent or guardian is making a payment, it is important that students provide their Royal Holloway student ID so that the payment can be matched to their financial account.
Have you applied through the International Study Centre or our partner Study Group (via an agent)?
If so DO NOT pay your deposit to Royal Holloway as it will not be accepted - you must make a deposit payment VIA STUDY GROUP ONLY.
Study Group deposit payment must be paid via https://pay.studygroup.com/login and refer to details in your offer letter or email studentpayments@studygroup.com for help.
Don’t get caught out by fraudsters!
Please take care when deciding how to pay your fees.
Fraudsters specifically target students so take care not to put yourself at risk.
Follow our preferred ways of paying your fees, as they are safe and secure - if you choose to use an alternative route of payment you may put your money, and yourself, at risk.
How might you get caught out?
Find out here .
The university cannot accept payment from any sanctioned individual or organisation.
Please note that e-Pay (Flywire) service cannot legally accept payments from the sanctioned countries: Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Syria, Sudan and the Crimea Region.
Tuition and accommodation fees can be paid online or by international bank transfer.
If you are an international student who has applied via an agent through our trusted partner Study Group, deposit payment should be made via the Study Group portal.
For details of how to pay, please refer to your offer letter or email studentpayments@studygroup.com for help.
*****NEW FOR 2025***** – for an enhanced student experience, the University has partnered with Flywire, still via ePay, allowing you to select from hundreds of convenient payment methods including bank transfers, cards and e-wallets.
This allows you to easily and securely make education payments in your own currency, using local payment methods from the safety and convenience of your home., With real-time tracking and around-the-clock multilingual support within the portal, millions of students and families around the world trust Flywire for payment processing.
This service should provide peace of mind with dedicated multilingual customer support and save bank charges and exchange rates.
Note: Royal Holloway does not accept payments via AMEX & Diners.
You can pay your own fees online using Campus Connect.
Students are encouraged to make payment via Campus Connect on the 'Account Details' card to minimise the details you need to enter, allows you to see the balance and invoices due for payment on your account, and select those for payment via the ePay (Flywire) service link within Campus Connect.
ePay (Flywire) provides you various payments options depending on the Country which you select from which you are making the payment allowing to select your preferred method, including bank transfers.
For payments from the UK, bank transfers via ePay (Flywire) are encouraged being convenient and secure.
Parents or third parties can pay fees using our ePay service (Flywire) open link (i.e.
not via Campus Connect).
This offers the exact same service as the link within Campus Connect, however, being an open link it requires you to directly input your student number and date of birth, which validates the correct input of your student number.
The link takes you to our new acquirer, Flywire.
You will be given various payments options depending on the Country which you select from which you are making the payment, including bank transfers.
For payments from the UK, bank transfers via this service are encouraged being convenient and secure.
There are no bank charges for this.
When making payment, be sure to quote your nine-digit student number and what the payment is for (e.g.
tuition fees, accommodation fees, or other).
For international bank transfers, please be sure to make the transfer with all handling charges for the account of the payer.
Be sure to ask your bank to quote:
Make sure your payment is processed by your bank at least five working days before it is due.
To minimise the risks around fraud and money laundering to both the student and the University, we strongly discourage students from making direct bank transfers to the University.
Direct bank transfers should only be used on request, and in exceptional circumstances.
Students are expected to pay their University fees using one of the preferred payment methods above.
Online payments will update on your Campus Connect portal on 'Account Details' card within 3 to 5 working days.
UK and international bank transfers are via the ePay (Flywire) solution being RHUL’s preferred method, as detailed above.
However, an alternative international bank transfer method to the ePay (Flywire) solution being RHUL’s preferred method, as detailed above, is in partnership with Convera GlobalPay .
This cannot be used for UK bank transfers.
If you make such payment via Convera, ask your bank to quote:
Please note you cannot make payments to the university using Convera GlobalPay if you, or the payer, is resident in and/or the payment is originating from any of the following areas:
Check your payment has been received on Campus Connect .
Standard instalment arrangements are only available on a personal fee liability greater than £2,000.00.
Students beginning a new course in September 2025 will have the option to pay their tuition fee in two equal instalments.
Examples of how to work out 50% of Tuition Fees
1.
Tuition Fees = £22,000.00 50% required to complete enrolment = £11,000.00 Less Tuition Deposit paid = £3,000.00 Total to pay to complete enrolment = £8,000.00 Remaining 50% to be paid by week one of Term 2 = £11,000.00.
Tuition Fees = £22,000.00 Received discount/scholarship = £1,500.00 Tuition Fees remaining to pay = £20,500.00 50% tuition fees to pay to complete enrolment = £10,250.00 Less Tuition Deposit paid = £3,000.00 Total to pay to complete enrolment = £7,250.00 Remaining 50% to be paid by week one of Term 2 = £10,250.00.
For September 2025 starters fee payment to enrol must be made by 22 September 2025 with the second payment due 12 January 2026.
For January 2026 starters payment to enrol must be made by 12 January 2026 with the second payment due 5 May 2026.
The instalment plan will be applied to your account automatically towards the end of your first term.
Please note no instalment plans are offered to complete enrolment as per Fees Regulations, 50% fees payments are required or students have the option of deferring.
Royal Holloway is recognised by a large number of scholarship bodies for sponsorship of students' courses.
You may alternatively have acquired sponsorship through your company or another funding body.
If a third party, e.g government embassy, employer or recognised funding body (other than Student Finance England), is paying part, or all, of your fees we must see the original letter confirming the level of your support, before you start your programme.
If, at enrolment, the online information is showing the full fee is payable by you, you should still sign up online.
However, you won’t be able to complete your enrolment until a formal sponsor's guarantee to make payment to Royal Holloway has been seen and recorded by us.
Please email a copy of the original letter to the Student Fees team.
An invoice will be issued to your sponsor once you are fully enrolled by end of November.
Please note that Royal Holloway does not produce sponsor invoices for accommodation fees.
If a sponsor has agreed to pay the fees for your accommodation please forward a copy of the student invoice to them for payment.
You can download a copy of the invoices for the current academic year from the finance tab of Campus Connect .
If you're an undergraduate funding your tuition fees via a loan or grant, Royal Holloway will receive payment of your fees directly from Student Finance England.
Just make sure you sign up with Student Finance England as soon as possible after making your university applications, and follow the guidance on government loans or grants .
If you are using a Master’s Loan from Student Finance England to pay your fees you must forward a copy of the approved loan confirmation to the Student Fees team before you can complete enrolment.
Make sure you sign up with Student Finance England and follow the guidance on enrolment .
If you are using a Doctoral Loan from Student Finance England to pay your fees you must ensure you advise us before you start your course.
Make sure you sign up with Student Finance England and follow the guidance on enrolment.
For your own safety and security please do not bring cash into the UK to fund your University fees.
Royal Holloway will not accept cash payments either directly or at any bank branch.
We therefore strongly recommend you use one of the preferred methods shown above.
Please also note that we do not accept cheques as a payment method.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/international-student-fees:
International student fees
If you are an International student who needs a Student visa to enter and study in the UK, you will need to pay the £3,000 or £10,000* tuition fee deposit before a Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS) number can be issued.
We recommend you pay the deposit as soon as possible, and at least three months before the start of your course.
Your CAS number can only be issued during the six months before the start of your course.
New for 2025 - To enhance your student experience, Royal Holloway has partnered with Flywire, integrated via ePay (Flywire), offering a secure and convenient way to pay your deposit and tuition fees.
Flywire allows you to:
Millions of students and families worldwide trust Flywire for education payments, and it is Royal Holloway’s preferred method for both UK and international students.
Alternative International Payment Option
If you are unable to use Flywire, you may make your payment via our partnership with Convera GlobalPay , a trusted international bank transfer solution.
If you are a Home applicant you will need to pay a tuition fee deposit of £100 as soon as possible to fully secure your place on the course.
New for 2025 – To enhance your student experience, Royal Holloway has partnered with Flywire, integrated via ePay (Flywire), offering a secure and convenient way to pay your deposit and tuition fees.
If you need a student visa to enter and study in the UK, you will need to pay the deposit before a Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS) number can be issued.
Your CAS number can only be issued during the three months before the start of your course.
New for 2025 - To enhance your student experience, Royal Holloway has partnered with Flywire, integrated via ePay (Flywire), offering a secure and convenient way to pay your deposit and tuition fees.
If you are unable to use Flywire, you may make your payment via our partnership with Convera GlobalPay, a trusted international bank transfer solution.
If you have applied for one of our degrees through an education agent and you reside outside the United Kingdom, EU, EEA, Switzerland, United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, please make your deposit payment via our trusted partner, Study Group.
A secure payment link and details of how to pay will be indicated in your offer letter.
Your deposit will usually be non-refundable except in certain circumstances.
Please look at our course deposits refunds policy for more information.
International students beginning a new course in September 2025 will have the option to pay their tuition fee in two equal instalments.
The first instalment must be paid in full before or at enrolment although we encourage you to make this payment before the CAS letter is issued.
Fee payment to enrol for 2025/26 must be made by 25 September 2025 with the second payment due 12 January 2026.
You pay using your local currency here.
Sponsored students are students in receipt of sponsorship from external sponsors such as your own government, a company or charity.
If you are a sponsored student, visit our Sponsored students page to make sure you understand what documentation you need to provide before, and during, your time at Royal Holloway.
For payment queries please email
student-fees@royalholloway.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/externally-funded-scholarships:
Externally funded scholarships
Funding is available from a number of external organisations to help you pay for your studies.
Whether you're an undergraduate or a postgraduate student, from the UK or overseas, you may be able to apply for additional funding from external groups, companies and individuals who have an interest in supporting higher education.
Follow the links below to find out more about eligibility and how to apply.
We'll update this page as new opportunities become available.
£1,500 cash award for students studying a STEM subject degree
The scholarship is open to students who are interested in pursuing a career in the UK Maritime Defence Sector.
Fully funded scholarship for a one year Masters degree
Chevening is the UK government's international scholarship programme, offering students with leadership potential the chance to study a fully funded Masters degree at a UK university.
Cash award of £2,000 available across all subject areas for students from anywhere in the world
Postgrad Solutions offers five bursaries worth £2,000 each across a number of subject areas for postgraduate students studying from any country.
Read more here
Full tuition fee and maintenance funding for students from Syria, Jordan, Lebanon or Palestine
This external scholarship fully funds a Masters degree for students with leadership potential, who have achieved, or are expected to achieve, at least a 2:1 in their undergraduate degree.
Applicants can be studying any subject but must show how their degree will help them contribute to the development of their region.
The award covers the first year tuition fees and contributes to living costs for any master's or doctoral degree programme.
The US-UK Fulbright award aims to foster cultural understanding between our two countries.
Preference is therefore given to applicants who do not have extensive experience (six months or longer) in the UK.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/scholarships-frequently-asked-questions:
Scholarships frequently asked questions
If you have any questions about our scholarships or how to apply, check out our frequently asked questions below.
If you have a specific question that isn't addressed below or need any support, please email us using our contact form .
We’re here to help.
At Royal Holloway, we offer a number of bursaries to students with home fee status who meet certain criteria, for example care leavers, and they are awarded automatically.
Scholarships may be awarded automatically to students who meet certain criteria, or they are competitive awards which you'll need to apply for.
You will need to hold an offer from Royal Holloway to apply for one of our scholarships.
Once you have this, you will need to apply using our Applicant Portal where you will be able to copy and paste or upload your scholarship statement, as well as any other information needed to complete your application form.
Remember you can apply for more than one scholarship in the same form.
If you have applied through an agent and received an offer through Study Group, please contact your agent who will advise on applying for scholarships.
This is a reduction of the fees of your degree course.
This will differ depending on whether you are an undergraduate or postgraduate, a Home or International student and what course you are studying.
Scholarships can be partial fee reductions, which is a set amount paid towards your fees, or a full tuition fee reduction, which covers the whole cost.
Tuition fee reductions are paid directly to Royal Holloway, rather than to you directly.
A cash award is a sum of money which is paid directly into your bank account.
Scholars can use the money for any expenses but usually tend to use it towards accommodation, travel or other study costs.
No, you will need to complete a new and different statement to apply for a scholarship.
Remember to check the application guidelines on the individual scholarship webpage to make sure you are including the relevant information to be in with the best chance of being awarded the scholarship.
It's really important to note the word count, as any statement which exceeds the word count is automatically rejected.
No, applications for our competitive scholarships need to be submitted by a deadline (see individual scholarship pages for details).
They will only be assessed after the deadline.
For automatic scholarships, you may need to apply for your course by a certain date to be eligible (see individual scholarship pages).
Yes, for many of our scholarships, we have a reserve list so if a student does not accept the scholarship, or becomes ineligible, we will offer it to the next person on the reserve list.
We will notify you if you are on the reserve list.
Check the individual scholarship webpages which will tell you when you when we will start contacting students to tell them if they have been awarded the scholarships.
If the scholarship is for specific course and the new course is not eligible for the award, then you would become ineligible to be considered for that particular scholarship.
If the new course is also eligible for the award, then your application will be considered.
You should notify RHPS@rhul.ac.uk if you change your course after being offered the scholarship.
If you have already joined us as a student and change your course, your continuing eligibility for the award will be reviewed, and could be withdrawn if you no longer meet the criteria for the award.
See our terms and conditions for full details.
This varies depending on what scholarships we have available each year.
Our advice is to apply for any scholarships you are eligible for and make sure you read the application guidelines before submitting your application.
Yes.
You can apply for as many scholarships as you are eligible for.
In most cases, you cannot hold more than one scholarship, however.
Our bursaries are awarded automatically to students who are eligible.
Scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis, usually based on academic achievement and/or a scholarship statement.
If you are automatically awarded a bursary, you may also be awarded a scholarship.
Our scholarships are awarded based on your written statement and/or your predicted grades at A-level or equivalent.
All applications are scored by a panel.
The applications which receive the highest scores are awarded the scholarships.
This will depend on the scholarship.
For some of our scholarships you need to maintain a 60% average to continue to receive it.
Please read our terms and conditions for more information.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/isr-events-form:
Sign up for more information
Fill in the form below to discover more about our courses, hear from current students about what it's like to study with us and when our next events are taking place.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/applicationquery:
If you’re interested in studying at Royal Holloway, please use this form to get answers to your questions or to contact our Admissions team directly.
This service is primarily aimed at answering admissions-related queries for students considering applying, or who have already applied, to Royal Holloway for an undergraduate or postgraduate course.
If your question is about an aspect of student life, or something detailed about your course, you might be able to find what you’re looking for more quickly by contacting the relevant teams directly.
Find out more about student life at Royal Holloway .
Contact your academic department about your chosen course.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/international-events:
International events
Every year, we attend a number of online and in-person events, providing the latest advice and guidance when applying for Royal Holloway.
To find out when we will next be visiting your country in-person or online, please see the list of upcoming events below.
These are opportunities to talk to us in real time, find out more about the University and get answers to any questions you may have.
If you are unable to attend any of the events or have any questions in the meantime, you can visit our meet the team page to get in touch with your country representative.
We also offer a range of taster days which are listed at the bottom of this page.
India
Pakistan
China, Hong Kong, & Taiwan
Korea
Japan
Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Phillipines
Kenya
Ghana & Nigeria
UAE, Bahrain, Oman, & Qatar
Egypt
USA & Canada
Germany
Ireland
France & Switzerland
Turkey
Portugal & Spain
Cyprus
Postgraduate events
Events take place both online and in person.
Royal Holloway hosts a number of public-facing events each year, from lectures to chamber music.
Visit our campus and get a real feel for student life at one of our Open Days.
Our next in-person Open Days are taking place on Saturday 11 October and Saturday 22 November - Register your interest now to be the first to hear when bookings open!
We also have an Online Open Day coming up on 17 September - sign up here .
Once you’ve received an offer to study an undergraduate degree with us, you’ll be invited to join one of our Applicant Visit Days.
We also have many exciting opportunities to find out more about postgraduate study at Royal Holloway.
For postgraduate offer holders, please use the following links to book an online chat with our academics from various academic departments to know more about Royal Holloway and the courses you are interested in.
Psychology, Health Studies, Earth Sciences
Economics, Law, Politics, International Relations and Philosophy
Information Security, Electronic Engineering
English, History
International Media Management
Over the next few months, we'll be holding a number of live Q&A sessions on our YouTube channel called 'Ask our Ambassadors', where you can ask our current students and staff questions about study, student life and more at Royal Holloway.
Get answers to the questions that matter to you by chatting with our students and staff here .
We host a wide range of webinars throughout the year, providing the latest updates and information for Royal Holloway applicants, offer holders, and new students.
Pre-Departure Webinars
If you are joining us in September 2025, we are hosting a series of pre-departure webinars to support you in the transition to university.
T uesday 10 June - Getting Visa Ready and our Accomodation
Tuesday 22 July - Student Life and Employability
Tuesday 19 August - Preparing for arrival and life in the UK
You can find the full details of the webinars, their recordings, and their sign up links here
See here for previous webinar recordings.
Upcoming Undergraduate Events
See below for more webinars and events.
You can use the filters below to select certain areas.
The easiest way to get in touch is to email us or message us on Unibuddy .
For updates on our courses, events and what our students are saying about us, sign up to our mailing list .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/international-events/past-recordings:
Past webinar recordings
Below you can find a list of all of our previous webinars*, with links available for you to watch them on demand.
School of Law and Social Sciences
School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Sciences
School of Life Sciences and the Environment
School of Performing and Digital Arts
*All information was correct at time of recording.
For the latest news and updates, please explore the Royal Holloway website, or contact us.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/meet-the-international-student-recruiment-team:
Meet the team
Our International Student Recruitment team are here to answer any questions you have about applying and studying at Royal Holloway as an international student.
If you are an international student, you can find out which member of the team to contact for your country/region below.
You can also find more information about applying from your country on your specific country page.
We also attend a number of events around the world throughout the year, giving you the chance to meet your country representative one-on-one.
See our list of events to find out when we will next be visiting your country/region.
Head of International Student Recruitment
International Student Recruitment Manager (Middle East and Africa) Mobile: +44 (0)7721 128 549 Email: samuel.gibson@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Manager (Middle East and Africa)
Mobile: +44 (0)7721 128 549
Email: samuel.gibson@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Manager (East and Southeast Asia & UKI) Mobile: +44 (0)7867 454961 Email: stella.tian@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Manager (East and Southeast Asia & UKI)
Mobile: +44 (0)7867 454961
Email: stella.tian@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Manager (Europe and Americas) Email: emma.burgess@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Officer (North and South America) Mobile: +44 (0)7467 890646 Email: samantha.crawford@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Officer (North and South America)
Mobile: +44 (0)7467 890646
Email: samantha.crawford@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Officer (East Asia & UKI Agents) Mobile: +44 (0)7557 852836 Email: april.liu@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Officer (East Asia & UKI Agents)
Mobile: +44 (0)7557 852836
Email: april.liu@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Officer (Europe & South Asia) Email: shahmir.akram@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Officer (Europe & South Asia)
Email: shahmir.akram@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Officer (South East Asia, Hong Kong & UKI Foundation Providers) Email: sorcha.breslin@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Officer (South East Asia, Hong Kong & UKI Foundation Providers)
Email: sorcha.breslin@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Coordinator Email: william.davidson@rhul.ac.uk
International Student Recruitment Coordinator
Email: william.davidson@rhul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/find-your-country:
Find your country/region
We are proud to welcome students from around the world to our beautiful and safe campus close to London.
With students from more than 130 countries studying here, we celebrate diversity and global perspectives, fostering a supportive environment where every voice is valued.
For the latest information and entry requirements specifically for your country, and to find out which member of our team to contact, please select your country below.
If your country or region is not listed below, please view our Meet the Team page to get in touch with your dedicated member of the team, or meet us at an upcoming event in your country.
Find out all you need to know about Albanian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Algerian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Australian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Austrian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Azerbaijani students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about students coming from Bahrain to study at Royal Holloway
Find out everything you need to know about students from Bangladesh coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Belgian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Botswanan students studying at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Brazilian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Bruneian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Canadian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Chilian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Chinese students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Colombian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Croatian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Cypriot students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Danish students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Egyptian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Estonian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Ethiopian students studying at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about European students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Finnish students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about French students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about German students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Ghanaian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out everything you need to know about Greek students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about students from Hong Kong coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Hungarian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Indian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Indonesian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Iranian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Irish students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Italian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Japanese students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Jordanian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Kazakhstani students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Kenyan students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Kuwaiti students coming to Royal Holloway
Find out all you need to know about Latvian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Lebanese students coming to study at Royal Holloway
Find out all you need to know as a Malaysian student coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Mauritian students studying at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Mexican students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Moroccan students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about students from Myanmar coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Dutch students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Nigerian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Norwegian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Pakistani students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about students from the Philippines coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Polish students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Portuguese students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Qatari students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Romanian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Russian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Rwandan students studying at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Saudi Arabian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about students from Singapore coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Slovakian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Slovenian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about South African students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about South Korean students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Spanish students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Sri Lankan students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Swedish students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out everything you need to know about Swiss students studying at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Taiwanese students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Tanzanian students studying at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about students from Thailand coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Turkish students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about students from the UAE coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Ugandan students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Ukrainian students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know if you are already studying in the UK.
Find out all you need to know about students from the USA coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about Vietnamese students coming to study at Royal Holloway.
Find out all you need to know about international students coming to study at Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/visas-and-immigration/before-you-arrive/student-visa:
Student visa
Most of Royal Holloway’s overseas students studying a full-time course with us will enter the UK on a Student visa.
Other types of UK visa also provide a right to study a full-time course in the UK.
If you hold one of these or you are planning to apply for one, we recommend checking with the International Advice team to ensure that you will be able to enrol on your course using that form of immigration permission.
Our International Advice team are available to ensure that the process of applying for a Student visa is as smooth as possible.
We offer a range of pre-arrival support to applicants including on how to make a successful Student visa application.
This is usually delivered via a series of webinars in the months before your course begins.
However, we are also happy to answer any questions or concerns you have about getting a Student visa at any time.
You can contact us via
phone:  (+44) 01784 276222
email: internationaladvice@royalholloway.ac.uk
video appointment: book here
The below gives an overview of the application process and requirements for obtaining a Student visa.
Before you apply for a Student visa you must have been issued a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) by Royal Holloway.
A CAS is an electronic document linking your Student visa application to Royal Holloway via the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) systems.
Without a valid CAS, you cannot make a Student visa application.
In order to receive your CAS, you must have
Shortly after you have completed the above requirements to be issued a CAS, our Admissions team will email you with a copy of the document.
Be sure to check all the information on your CAS is correct.
This includes
Your personal details - name, nationality, passport number
Your course details - the CAS will be issued with a course start and end date.
These should cover the full duration of your course at Royal Holloway
Your fee details - these will be used by the UKVI to calculate your financial requirement to be issued the Student visa (see below)
It is your responsibility to check that all the information contained within the CAS is accurate before you submit your visa application.
Please contact us immediately if you find any errors in your CAS.
If you are currently outside the UK and do not hold a valid UK visa then you will need to apply for the Student visa from the country that you live in and wait to be granted the visa before travelling to the UK.
See the detailed guidance on making a Student visa application from outside the UK.
If you are currently inside the UK and hold a valid UK visa then you may be able to make an application for your Student visa to study at Royal Holloway from inside the UK.
Please note that not all applicants currently in the UK will be able to apply for their new visa from within the UK .
Please read the guidance on making a Student visa application inside the UK very carefully and seek help from the International Advice team if you are uncertain.
The Student visa is part of the UK’s points based immigration system.
Before starting your application, you must make sure that you meet the requirements to be issued a Student visa.
The requirements are that you
Once you are satisfied that you meet these requirements and that you have collected all the relevant supporting documents, you will need to follow these steps to make a valid Student visa application
Step 1 – complete the online application form here
Step 2 - You will be asked to pay the relevant application fees
Step 3 – You will be invited to provide your biometric details (picture and fingerprints) and your supporting documents (see below)
How you complete step 3 depends on your nationality and the type of passport you hold
You’ll either be:
Application times can vary according to where you live and the time of year, so make sure that you apply as early as possible to avoid any delays.
You must ensure that you can arrive in the UK by the start date of your course (check your CAS).
If you would like to receive your decision faster then you may be able to use the priority (decision in 5 working days) or super-priority (decision next-working day) services where they are available.
You’ll be told which documents you need to submit with your Student visa application during the online process.
However, we recommend that you prepare these documents well in advance to avoid any delays.
It’s very important that you provide all the necessary documents and that those documents meet the relevant requirements.
Failure to do so may lead to delays with your application or a visa refusal.
If you’re from a country listed under the ‘ differential evidence requirement ’ and applying for your visa from that country, you do not need to provide documents that prove you meet the financial or academic requirements including English language when you submit your Student visa application.
However, the UKVI reserve the right to request these documents at any point during the application process and therefore we strongly advise that you prepare them anyway in case you are asked for them later.
A valid passport
Ideally it should be valid for the duration of your studies in the UK but we would recommend that it have at least 6 months validity.
Evidence that you have enough money to support yourself
Failure to provide the correct financial documentation is the most common reason for Student visa refusals.
See our detailed section below to make sure you provide the correct evidence.
If you are from a country listed under the ‘ differential evidence requirement ’ you will not need to provide this document with your application.
Evidence that you meet the English language requirement
Royal Holloway will have assessed how you meet the English language requirement before issuing you with a CAS.
You can find the information on your CAS under the heading ‘qualification data’, you must provide any documents listed in this part of your CAS with your Student visa application.
Evidence of how you obtained your offer from Royal Holloway
For example, school certificates/grades or previous degree qualifications.
A valid Tuberculosis (TB) certificate
If you have been living in one of the countries on the list here during the last 6 months or more, then you must attend an appointment to check that you do not have TB and provide a valid certificate to prove this with your visa application.
The certificate must have been issued by a UKVI authorised clinic.
A valid ATAS certificate
Applicants for certain post-graduate research courses (PhDs) where the research in question centres around some STEM subjects will need to provide a valid ATAS certificate with their Student visa application.
Royal Holloway will inform you whether you need ATAS clearance for your research topic.
We will not issue you a CAS until you have been granted the clearance.
Consent from your parents if you are under 18-years-old
If you are under 18 years of age at the time you make your Student visa application then you must provide a letter from your parents/legal guardians giving you consent to travel to, live and study in the UK.
You must also provide evidence of your relationship to your parents/legal guardians, for example, a birth certificate or adoption papers.
Translations into English
If any of the documents that you provide with your application are not in English then you will need to submit a translation of that document into English as well as the original document itself.
The translation must include details of the translator’s credentials, their contact details, date of translation and their signature.
Breaks in study
If you have had a break in your study for over a year then we strongly recommend that you write a supporting letter and include this with your visa application.
The supporting letter should mention
You may also be asked about any breaks in study during a credibility interview (see below)
Read the below guidance carefully and if you are unsure whether your documents meet the requirements then please get in contact internationaladvice@royalholloway.ac.uk before you make your visa application.
We are happy to check your documents before you make your application.
All students are expected to show that they have paid or have evidence of money to pay their first year’s tuition fees.
Your first year tuition fees as well as any money you have already paid towards those fees will be shown on your CAS.
Students also need to show that they have enough money to cover their living costs (maintenance)  while in the UK.
The maintenance requirements differ depending on which campus you will be studying your degree at.
Check you CAS for confirmation of which Royal Holloway campus you will be studying at and then use the below table to calculate your maintenance.
The formula for calculating the funds you need to show you have available when applying for the Student visa is
First year tuition fees (see CAS)
- Tuition fees already paid (see CAS)
+ Maintenance requirements (see above)
= Total funds you must show
Students must sign a declaration on the visa application form that states that the money shown at the time of the visa application is available to them for living and studying in the UK and should not be used for anything else.
Using money in a currency other than British Pounds (GBP)
If the funds that you are using in support of your Student visa application are in a currency other than Great British Pounds (GBP £) then you must check the conversion rate on the Oanda website to ensure that you hold enough money to be granted the visa (the UKVI will use the exchange rate on Oanda when assessing your Student visa application).
The UKVI will use the conversion rate on the date that you submit your application.
If you are using Syrian Pounds or Iranian Rials in support of meeting the financial requirement then the UKVI will not use OANDA to calculate the exchange rate to Great British Pounds.
Please contact us for support if you are using either currency.
If you are using your own funds or funds held in your parents’ name then you will need to submit bank statements or similar documents (certificates of deposits or a letter from the bank) to prove this.
Please note that funds must be held in either your name or in at least one of your parents’ names.
You cannot use accounts in the names of other family members or friends in support of your Student visa application.
The account can be a joint account as long as your name appears as one of the account holders on the documents provided.
If you are using funds held in your parent’s name(s) then you must also provide
You will need to make sure that the bank that the funds are held in meets the requirements of a financial institution as defined by the UKVI (FIN 2.1) and that the funds themselves are held in an appropriate account (FIN 8.1).
The document that you provide must show the following information
The document must show that the total funds (see above for guidance on how much money you need) have been held for at least 28 consecutive days .
In most cases this will be calculated by counting back from the date of the closing balance on the most recently dated piece of financial evidence.
If you are using a letter from your bank they will need to explicitly write that the funds have been held for at least 28 consecutive days.
The document(s) that you use in support of your application must be dated within 31 days before the date of application .
Student loans can be used to meet the financial requirements of the Student visa if the loan is provided by
If you are ensure whether any loan meets these requirements then please contact us.
Please note that other loans or forms of credit cannot be used in support of your Student visa application.
You will need to submit a document confirming the details of your student loan which
The amount of the loan must meet the requirements detailed above (How much money do I need to show I have?).
If the total of the loan does not meet this amount then you can use evidence of funds held in your or your parents’ names to meet the deficit (see above).
The loan agreement must also confirm that the funds will be
The UKVI consider official financial sponsors to be
If you are receiving funds from one of these organisations then you must provide a letter from the sponsor that contains
If you are receiving financial sponsorship from Royal Holloway then we will indicate this on your CAS and you will not need a letter from the University.
The amount your are receiving from your official financial sponsor must meet the requirements detailed above (How much money do I need to show I have?).
If the total of the loan does not meet this amount then you must use alternative evidence of funds to meet the deficit (see above).
Credibility interviews are designed to make sure that only genuine students are studying in the UK.
Not everyone who applies for a Student Visa will need to do a credibility interview.
If you do need to do a credibility interview you will be invited to do so by the UKVI either at the time you make your visa application or shortly afterwards.
The interview can last up to 30 minutes and it will be conducted via a video link with a member of the UKVI based in the UK.
The report and transcript of the interview will then be sent to a caseworker who will consider it alongside your visa application and other supporting evidence.
The interview will be conducted in English and therefore your ability to communicate in English will be taken into consideration.
There are no set questions that you will be asked, however from previous experience and inline with the purpose of the interview the below are common themes during credibility interviews.
Think about why you chose the UK rather than your home country, another English-speaking country or a country which other students of your nationality choose to study in.
What does Royal Holloway offer that other Universities don’t?
Which other Universities did you consider before deciding on Royal Holloway?
The UKVI will expect a genuine student to have thoroughly researched Royal Holloway and other universities in the UK before applying.
There may be many courses in the same subject area as the one you plan to study.
What is it specifically about this course which you prefer and which suits you over other course choices?
Think about your decision process.
Did you apply for other courses - why did you choose to study this course at Royal Holloway rather than somewhere else?
The UKVI would expect a genuine student to have thoroughly researched their course and other competing courses.
You may also be asked practical questions about your course such as, when will it start?
How many hours of a week will you be studying?, etc.
The UKVI will expect a genuine student to know the answer to these questions.
You may also be asked questions related to current events and your course.
The UKVI would expect a genuine student to be able to talk about their chosen subject area and any major news stories related to it.
Think about what your plans are after you graduate.
How will the knowledge and skills you gain from your course help you with the type of work you hope to do?
Does your course lead to any professional qualifications and are these recognised in your country?
Do you know what others graduating from the course went on to do, for example, the types of roles and organisations they work for?
What kind of salary can you expect to achieve from the job that you hope to get after graduation?
The UKVI would expect that a genuine student would have defined career goals and a good understanding of the industry that they are hoping to work in.
If you have been out of full-time education for a period of time think about why you are returning now in the context of the questions above, for example, is it because further qualifications are necessary for you to achieve your career goals?
The UKVI would expect a genuine student to have a very clear rationale as to why they are returning to study.
The purpose of this question is to check that your funds are genuinely available to you for your studies.
As part of your application you might have submitted proof of your finances (see above)- ensure that you are very clear about the source and availability of these funds and how you plan to pay for subsequent years' fees if your course is more than a year in duration.
If you are receiving official financial sponsorship make sure you are aware of the amounts and exactly what is covered.
If you have a loan, how will you afford to pay this back?
How much will your accommodation cost and are you clear about the cost of living in the UK?
The average cost of study in the UK for an international student is in the region of £30,000 - £35,000 a year.
The UKVI would expect that a genuine student will be able to afford this and will be able to give a clear answer to where they have sourced the money from.
These questions could refer to existing family members living in the UK or family members who will be travelling to the UK with you ( read further information on who can bring dependents on their Student visa ).
The purpose of your trip to the UK should be primarily for study.
The UKVI will want you to demonstrate that you understand this and that you are not planning to use the Student visa for any other purpose.
If your family are joining you in the UK, how will you fund your collective living costs?
Will your partner work?
Who will provide childcare where applicable?
The UKVI would expect a family to have given these questions serious consideration before moving to the UK and they will want to be convinced that any dependents travelling with you will not impact your ability to study.
Remember that you must not travel to the UK until you receive your Student visa.
How you receive a decision on your visa application and the next steps to take will depend on how you applied.
If you are a non-EEA national who applied before 15 July 2025 this is likely to be you.
You will receive notification that a decision on your visa application has been made and you will be
Once you have your passport, check the entry clearance vignette inside it carefully.
If you notice any errors, then please contact us immediately for advice.
Your entry clearance vignette will be valid for 30 days (sometimes 90 days).
You must travel to the UK within that period.
Please note that you must also arrive in the UK and enrol on your course by the latest arrival date listed on your CAS.
From 1 November 2025, the UKVI stopped issuing Biometric Residence Permits (BRPs).
If you are granted a Student visa from November 2025 onwards, you will receive a digital immigration status known as an eVisa that will show the full duration and conditions of you visa .
If you are a non-EEA national who applied after 15 July 2025 this is likely to be you.
Your immigration permission will be digital.
You won’t receive a document or stamp in your passport.
You will need to: •    Follow all the instructions in the email and create a UKVI account •    Access your eVisa and check the details are correct •    Link your passport to your eVisa before travelling
If you do need to prove your immigration status, for example at enrolment, then you can do so online using the link here
If you applied via the app, then you will receive an email notifying you of the outcome of your visa application.
If your visa application is refused, then you must contact internationaladvice@royalholloway.ac.uk immediately.
Please include the notification letter that you received from the UKVI detailing why your application was refused.
Please do not attempt to make a new Student visa application without first receiving a new CAS.
You may be given the option to submit an Administrative Review against the decision to refuse your visa.
We recommend that students seek support from the International Advice Team before submitting an Administrative Review.
To apply to extend your current Student visa or switch from a different type of UK visa to the Student visa you must meet all of the requirements below
If you do not meet all of the above requirements then you must submit your Student visa application from outside the UK (see guidance above).
If you are unsure whether you meet all these requirements then please contact internationaladvice@royalholloway.ac.uk before you make your visa application.
Once you are satisfied that you meet these requirements, you will need to follow these steps to make a valid Student visa application
We have created a step by step guide on how to complete the application form and use the app to prove your identity.
Most students will be invited to use the UK immigration ID check app in order to prove their identity and provide a photograph and biometric details.
If you are unable to do use the UK immigration ID check app then you will be asked to book an appointment at visa application centre after you have completed the application form and step 2.
How long will it take for me to receive a decision on my Student visa application and will I be able to study while I wait?
Application times can vary according to the time of year so make sure that you apply as early as possible to avoid any delays.
If you would like to receive your decision faster then you can use the priority (decision in 5 working days) or super-priority (decision next-working day) services where they are available.
It’s very important that you do not leave the UK while your visa application is being processed.
If you do leave the UK before you receive a decision, you will automatically withdraw your application, lose your application fee and need to start the process again.
While you wait for a decision on your Student visa, you will be able to remain in the UK under the conditions of your current visa.
This is true even if your current visa expires while you are waiting for a decision on your Student visa.
In most cases this means that you will be able to complete enrolment on your course and study but the University will check that at the point you enrol.
Please note that if you are switching from the Graduate visa to the Student visa that you must have been granted the Student visa before the University can allow you to study.
This is because the Graduate visa does not provide you the right to study a full-time course.
.
If you are from a country listed under the ‘ differential evidence requirement ’ you will not need to provide these documents with your application.
If you have been living in the UK for the past 12 months (or more) then you will automatically meet the financial requirements to be issued a Student visa and therefore you not be required to submit any further evidence with your application.
If you have not been living in the UK for the past 12 months or you don’t come from a country that benefits for the differential evidence requirement then you must submit financial evidence with your application that meets the requirements of the UK’s immigration rules.
You can find detailed advice on how to prove you hold sufficient funds above under the heading ‘Financial evidence in support of your Student visa’.
Please note that failure to provide the correct evidence of finances (where required) is the most common reason for Student visa refusals.
If you are unsure whether you need to submit any evidence and if so what evidence is required, please contact us via internationaladvice@royalholloway.ac.uk
If you are applying in the UK to extend a current Student visa or switch from a different type of visa that required you to already have proved your English language then you will not have to provide evidence with your application again.
If you are under 18 years of age at the time you make your Student visa application then you must provide a letter from your parents/legal guardians giving you consent to continue t, live and study in the UK.
You will receive an email informing you that a decision has been made on your visa application.
You will be granted digital immigration permission known as an eVisa.
You can view and update your eVisa here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/support-for-international-students:
Support for international students
Our International Advice Team is here to make sure that you get the most from your time in the UK.
The International Advice team, provide support to students from over 130 countries who choose Royal Holloway to undertake their undergraduate and postgraduate studies.
We will often be the first point of contact for international students on a range of support and wellbeing issues.
As a team we provide visa and immigration advice; support integration into study and life in the UK, administer US Federal Loans and provide guidance on a number of other questions that international students may have while studying here.
Please email the team or you can visit us in Founder's East, room 132.
Click on the links below for further information and advice designed specifically for international students who are new to the UK.
Advice and support for international students Open Monday to Friday, 10am to 4pm
Founders East, Room 132 +44 (0)1784 27 6222 / 6168

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/studying-abroad/join-us-from-abroad/international-exchange:
International Exchange
We welcome international students who want to join us for part of their studies under our International Exchange programme.
Royal Holloway has full student exchange agreements with a number of top universities world-wide allowing international students to join us for up to a year.
Studying abroad will give you the chance to experience a different academic system and often a very different way of life while still earning credit towards a degree at your home university.
We can only accept applications from students studying at universities that have an exchange agreement with us.
Find out if your university is one of our international exchange partners .
If your home university doesn’t have an exchange agreement with us, you may still be able to join us under our Study Abroad programme .
You are eligible for campus accommodation but should make sure you apply before the deadline.
You have two options:
All rooms have internet access and most are single-occupancy.
Many have their own en-suite shower room.
See our accommodation pages for more information.
For accommodation queries, email:  studentservices@royalholloway.ac.uk
The dedicated support for students from abroad , is one of the reasons why so many students choose to come to Royal Holloway on an international exchange.
If you’re a current Royal Holloway student, you too can study abroad.
You can spend up to a year at a university in Europe or further afield, depending on which option you choose.
Find out more.
Need help filling in your online application?
Not sure about something?
Please contact our Admissions team using the enquiry form.
A list of the international universities with whom we have International Exchange agreements
Information for international students on how to apply for a place at Royal Holloway under the International Exchange programme.
The course options open to international students joining Royal Holloway as an exchange or Study Abroad student.
If you’re an international student joining us under an exchange or Study Abroad programme, you can look forward to a wealth of support.
How to apply if you’d like to join Royal Holloway as a guest research student.
Information for international students wanting to study at Royal Holloway under the European Exchange programme

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/schools-and-colleges/online-resources:
Videos and resources
Welcome to our online resources page.
Here you will find a library of free learning resources for students, parents and teachers covering all aspects of the University application process.
If there's anything missing from this page that you think we should include, let us know - schools@royalholloway.ac.uk
If you're a UK student and would like to request a callback from our team about your application to Royal Holloway, please complete our form.
At Royal Holloway, University of London, we're proud of our alumni (former students) and they're proud of us.
Read about the alumni of a range of subjects, their time at Royal Holloway, and their careers in their own words on our alumni profiles page .
Luca - Day in a life
Abi - Day in a life
David - Sports & Societies at Royal Holloway
Check out our guide for writing a Personal Statement .
Check out our partner HEON's videos and resources related to wellbeing.
Our widening access team have collated a large amount of information and resources on careers which can be found here .
Resources created by our academic departments can be found on our activities by subject page .
You may also be interested in the research our departments have been doing in relation to Covid-19.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/sponsored-students:
Sponsored students
If you are a sponsored student, make sure you understand what documentation you need to provide before, and during, your time at Royal Holloway.
All new and continuing sponsored students must provide a Financial Guarantee Letter for each academic year that they are being sponsored.
If your sponsorship is for multiple academic years, then please state this on your letter.
If you are a new student, please note that we must receive your Financial Guarantee Letter before we can issue you a CAS letter to apply for your Student Visa.
If you require your unconditional offer letter to be sent to you as a PDF, contact sponsors@rhul.ac.uk .
Guidance on what to include in your Financial Guarantee Letter, and who to send it to, can be found below.
All Financial Guarantee letters must be issued on letter headed paper, and sent via email to both student-fees@rhul.ac.uk and sponsors@rhul.ac.uk .
Your Financial Guarantee letter must include the following:
This letter should be received by the deposit deadline stated in the offer letter, where applicable.
If, at enrolment, the online information is showing the full fee is payable by you, you should still complete online sign up but it will not be possible for you to complete your enrolment fully until a formal sponsor's guarantee to make payment to Royal Holloway has been seen and recorded by us.
An invoice will be issued to your sponsor once you are fully enrolled.
If you require any further information, please contact the Student Fees Office .
At the end of the academic year and your studies, your sponsor may ask for a copy of your Royal Holloway transcripts and certificate.
For current students, please visit our Documents and Forms for Current Students guide on the Student Intranet.
If you are a recent or former Royal Holloway student, please visit our proof of award webpages to see what documentation is available to you.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/international-schools:
International schools
If your role involves counselling and helping students to make important decisions, we want to make sure you have everything you need for you, and your students, to succeed.
On this page, you will find a list of links and resources that will provide you with the information you need to help your students make informed and confident decisions when applying to Royal Holloway.
For undergraduate online prospectus, please visit here .
For entry requirements and information on accepted qualifications, visit our Find your country/region pages.
If you can’t find what you’re looking for, please contact the Regional Manager covering your country.
You can find their details on our Meet the Team page.
Egham, Surrey
We welcome visitors to our campus.
We can tailor the campus visits to enable students to experience university life and receive information, advice and guidance about higher education.
Campus visits will vary depending on the size of the group visiting, and room availability, but a typical visit will include:
Optional sessions can be considered such as:
To request a campus visit complete our form below:
Online and in person
Please email international@rhul.ac.uk if you would like us to attend your existing event.
Please include the date, location, how many students and their nationality you expect to be in attendance.
Dependent on staff availability and location we will look to accommodate the request.
We offer a range of talks and workshops aimed at helping students understand more about higher education and what it has to offer.
Our talks and workshops will suit audiences from ages 14-19 years and can be tailored to fit your requirements.
Example talks & workshops:
We offer talks, workshops and training for teachers aimed at supporting them to support students wanting to study in the UK and at Royal Holloway, University of London.
Talks include:
Resources and support
You can use the course finder on our website to search for courses.
On each course page, you can find the course structure, teaching & assessment, entry requirements, future career, and fees information.
You can also use our undergraduate online prospectus for additional information.
To download a PDF copy of the main prospectus or departmental brochures, please visit the Prospectuses and brochures page .
Where an applicant is taking the EPQ alongside A-levels, the EPQ will be taken into consideration and result in lower A-level grades being required.
It is best to contact our Admissions team at: applicants@rhul.ac.uk to seek further clarity regarding your student's EPQ.
Your student can use Unibuddy to chat with our current students.
Attending our open days also provides the opportunities to talk to our current students.
Your student can use Unibuddy to chat with our staff members by clicking onto the 'staff' tab.
They can also find the staff contact here to email them.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/times-higher-education-s-analysis-of-ref-2021:
Times Higher Education’s analysis of REF 2021
Times Higher Education’s analysis of REF 2021 reinforces Royal Holloway’s reputation as a world-leading research-intensive university.
In Times Higher Education’s (THE) analysis and rankings of the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 results, Royal Holloway, University of London, is ranked 15 in the UK for the overall quality of its research outputs; outputs measure the originality, significance and rigour of any form of research published.
Highlights from THE’s rankings of the REF 2021 results include:
Professor Paul Layzell, Principal of Royal Holloway, said: “The THE rankings indicate Royal Holloway’s position as a world-leading research-intensive university.
I am pleased to see that the university is ranked by THE in the top 15 of the country for outputs, a position achieved as a result of strong 4* research outputs, which increased by 60% in REF 2021 compared to REF 2014.
“These results acknowledge the quality of the research carried out by our internationally renowned academics who have collaborated with colleagues across the globe in their quest to respond to complex challenges faced by individuals and humanity as a whole.
“As a university, we are committed to dual excellence in teaching and research, which means our students reap the benefits of being taught by academics who are leading researchers in their fields.
“I would like to thank our academics and their collaborators for their commitment to their research which, as these results show, is starting to make an impact across the world.”
The REF provides a robust and thorough assessment of the quality of universities’ research in all disciplines, providing accountability for public investment in research and demonstrating the benefits of that investment.
The REF assessment is based on three criteria; outputs, impact and environment.
The THE ranking draws on the REF 2021 results and process the results to rank institutions according to the grade point average (GPA) score of overall quality profiles and excludes some specialist submissions.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/visit-royal-holloway/postgraduate-events/postgraduate-webinars:
Postgraduate webinars
Find out more about our courses and teaching with our postgraduate webinars.
* Please note that all information presented in these webinars is accurate at the time of recording.
MSc Digital Marketing - Empowering Students with Emerging IT Trends
MSc International Business Management - Strategy and International Business
MSc AI for Business - Re-imagining Business with AI
Electronic Engineering - 5G Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) with Weather Forecast Satellite Sensors
Computer Science Postgraduate Demo Session
MSc Applied Data Science and Cyber Security - Ethical Hacking and Information Privacy
MSc Applied Data Science - Real World Data Science
MA History: Crusader Studies - Kings, Crusaders and the Sultana of Egypt
MSc Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies - The Future of Terrorism
MSc International Public Policy and Development - Great Power Competition
MSc Occupational Therapy
Upskilling MSc Earth Scientists for Industry
Psychology - Challenging the Superhero Narrative of Healthcare Professionals
MA Producing (Immersive Media and Innovation) - Bringing Histories to Life in 3D
MA Producing (Immersive Media and Innovation) - World-Building with AI Tools

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/explore-the-campus/eating-and-drinking:
Places to eat and drink
Need somewhere sleek to grab a coffee and work on your laptop?
Or do you want somewhere comfy to enjoy a home-cooked meal with a large group of friends?
Each of the eateries on campus has its own style and character, and there’s something to suit every budget, taste, mood and dietary need.
Take a look at the venues in Founder's , The Hub and elsewhere on campus .
You can follow our RHFoodandDrink social media accounts to get special offers during term time.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/commuting-students:
Commuting students
Many of our students choose to commute to our campus.
From free parking permits and flexible learning options to access to University of London facilities, choosing to commute can be a great alternative to living in halls.
There is also a good network of local buses from nearby towns such as Slough, Staines and Windsor.
Academic department timetables are all available online, and any changes are made 48 hours beforehand so you can plan your time in between lectures.
Our Student Lounge is a great place to hang out and meet other students.
It's open Monday to Friday from 8am-6pm and you can relax, grab a coffee and chat to friends.
We also run regular events there like the Relax and Refresh hour.
You'll also be able to use our library which has extended opening hours, including 24/7 at some points of the year.
Be inspired to study in our historic Victorian Reading Room or take a relaxing stroll within our 135-acre woodland.
There are plenty of other places to relax, have a hot drink or a snack or simply meet with friends.
Our cafes are open throughout the day, with some open early morning and into the evening.
Our societies and sports clubs hold activities and events at various times, with Wednesday afternoons clear of lectures and seminars so you can get involved in other activities, for example, sports matches.
Our sports centre and fitness suite is open to all our students, and a range of exercise classes take place throughout the day and evening.
You can also access health services with our on-campus NHS health centre and support from our Wellbeing teams.
The focus of your first few weeks at Royal Holloway is Welcome Week, where you can join activities aimed at helping new students settle in, whether they live in halls or commute to campus.
Examples of activities include campus tours, icebreakers and sports events.
Students make new friends throughout their university life, not just in Halls.
You may meet fellow students with similar interests on your course, in one of our societies or clubs, or even a fellow commuter.
Many of our students take on a part-time job on campus, for example, as a Student Ambassador or in one of our cafes, many of which have opportunities to work just in the daytime.
Hear from our commuting student Naveen about living at home and commuting to Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/your-faith:
Your faith and beliefs
Royal Holloway is a multi-faith community and the university aims to support you in your personal faith and spiritual journey, whatever your beliefs or circumstances.
The Chaplains are available to listen to Students and Staff of all beliefs and none, offering support to the whole University community.
The Multifaith Chaplaincy offers a programme of Sunday and weekday Christian services in our beautiful Chapel and Muslim Friday prayers on campus.
We also offer guided Mindfulness sessions and support the worship of other faith groups.
The Muslim Prayer Room is available throughout the week to authorized users.
On-campus faith groups include Hindu, Sikh, Islamic, Jewish and Catholic Societies as well as a Christian Union, and the Multifaith Chaplaincy works to encourage mutual learning and engagement between students from different faith traditions.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/sport:
Sport
You can play sport competitively against other universities, keep fit in the gym, or just enjoy casual activities with weekly drop-in sessions.
Our campus-based facilities have world-class outdoor pitches including a third generation rugby/football pitch approved by FIFA, grass pitches, tennis and netball courts, and an astro pitch.
The Sports Centre has a multi-use sports hall and a 60-station fitness suite complete with cardio, weights, resistance machines and a jam-packed class schedule.
Whether you prefer yoga or spin, there’s plenty to keep you moving.
Membership of our Sports Centre is also open to the local community and businesses.
Whether you consider yourself a pro or want to try something new, there are teams and clubs to cater for your needs.
More than 1,300 of our students belong to one of our 80 sports teams, competing in BUCS and LUSL competitions.
There are also Campus Sports Leagues in popular sports for playing against fellow students.
"I didn’t get to play much basketball in school so I was really looking forward to joining when I came here.
I love it.
It’s a real team sport.
We’ve got people who’ve played a lot and those who’ve never played before, which is perfect for the team dynamic."
Charlie, Basketball Club President
Another way to get involved in sport is to join one of our 36 sports clubs .
These cover everything from American Football to Volleyball.
You don't need to be an expert.
Try a taster session and have a go at Ultimate Frisbee, Pickleball, Touch Rugby, or whatever takes your fancy.
Do you miss playing sports or want to be more physically active?
Royal Holloway Sport's Active sessions are the perfect solution for you.
Whether you're a seasoned player or just starting out, we have a range of activities to choose from, so you're sure to find the perfect one for you.
There is plenty to get excited about throughout your time at Royal Holloway.
From Freshers Fayre, Colour Runs and Glow-in-the-dark badminton to Big Bears Wednesday and Varsity, sport brings the whole university community together with something for everyone.
If you’re at the top of your game and compete at a national and international level, we may be able to offer you one of our sports scholarships.
Find out more about our scholarship programme.
(Photo: Enrique Bello, Sport Scholar 2023-25)
Many of our facilities are available for hire.
Find out more about what's on offer here .
As we are the Home of the Bears, it is only fitting that our mascot is a giant polar bear called Colossus!
Find out more about our favourite friend here .
Interested in any of the above?
There's more information on our dedicated pages where you can find out about the Royal Holloway Sport app.
Give us a follow us on Instagram to see the latest photos, videos and news for all things sport at Royal Holloway.
Got a question about sport or fitness at Royal Holloway?
Email us to find out more.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/central-london-campus/location:
Location
Right in the centre of a vibrant city, you can soak up everything London has to offer; from work experience and networking to enjoying all the culture, food and nightlife.
The nearest London Underground stations are Tottenham Court Road, Goodge Street or Russell Square.
Our Central London campus is made up of three buildings, just a few minutes apart:
You’ll be taught in modern seminar rooms with access to the University of London’s Senate House Library.
And if you need somewhere comfortable to relax between teaching sessions, we have breakout areas and common rooms.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/your-future-career/careers-support-from-day-one:
Careers support from day one
We want you to thrive when you graduate and that work starts as soon as you join us.
Our team of careers experts go above and beyond to help you prepare for your future after you graduate and work directly with staff in our academic departments to make sure you have a full package of support.
You’ll be able to book one-to-one appointments to help you evaluate your skills, explore ideas and put together a career journey plan.
Our practical support also includes CV, cover letter and job application checks.
If you're a budding entrepreneur, university can be a great opportunity for making your ideas become a reality.
We support your ambitions by offering one-to-one appointments with our Enterprise Manager, as well as running a series of workshops covering topics including financial planning, pitching to investors and creating a business strategy.
Our location means finding a part-time job can be easy.
We have great working relationships with local businesses and organisations who are keen to employ our students and we also host a bustling part-time jobs fair, where you’ll be able to see what opportunities are available and chat to employers directly.
There’s also a great choice of roles available on our Egham campus, from working in one of our cafes to becoming a student ambassador.
Our Careers Fairs are always popular and give you the chance to have some meaningful conversations with companies from a wide range of sectors.
We also give you the chance to hear success stories from our past students and how their experience at Royal Holloway has helped them in their career, and hold regular alumni events where you’ll be able to hear directly from former students and learn more about their different career journeys.
Browse through our many Graduate Profiles to discover where some of our former students are now.
You can also join us at our next Open Day to find out how we help prepare you for your chosen career path.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/your-future-career/more-than-just-a-degree:
More than just a degree
You’ll leave Royal Holloway with more than just a degree, with a CV packed with relevant experience and skills
University is a great time for finding out more about yourself and your interests by getting involved in activities outside your academic study.
But joining a club or society, volunteering or having a part-time job, can also give you the vital skills that employers are looking for when you graduate.
Maybe you’ll lead a project in the community or become treasurer of a society, perhaps you’ll hone your broadcasting or performance skills or learn to organise events.
Whatever you get involved with, we’ll help you translate your experience into clear skills that you’re confident writing and talking about.
Follow the links below to find out more about the great opportunities available at Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/volunteering-at-royal-holloway:
Volunteering at Royal Holloway
Royal Holloway Volunteering is an award-winning department within Royal Holloway, University of London that develops amazing community opportunities for students to take part in.
Whether you want to gain valuable skills for future employment, learn a bit more about your interests or make a genuine difference in your community, we are here to help.
Volunteering is also a fantastic way to meet new people and make friends!
First you can register on our online volunteering system.
Using this system you can create a profile and search a range of different volunteering opportunities and community partners.
If you find an opportunity that you are interested in, you can use the system to sign up or contact the relevant community partner!
Once you have volunteered, you can even record your volunteering hours using the system.
Recording hours means that you will be helping us to measure our impact in the local community and will make you eligible for our bespoke Royal Holloway Inspired Awards.
Each week we send out an update featuring a selection of great opportunities.
Have a look at our most recent updates.
______________________________________________________________________________________
You can join in the fun by following our Facebook , Instagram and Twitter accounts.
If you are volunteering, we want to hear your volunteering stories!
By sure to tag in @RHVolunteering on Instagram and Twitter
Royal Holloway Volunteering has five different types of opportunity.
These are Community Action, Social Action, Community Research, Volunteering Abroad and Sports Volunteering.
With 100 different community partners, there are lots of incredible ways of getting involved if you want to volunteer with local charities, schools or non-profit organisations.
Find out more about how you can get involved as a student
Sign up as a Community Partner or Volunteering Abroad organisation to advertise your opportunities to hundreds of Royal Holloway Students.
Explore some of the great events that the team run throughout the year
Find out more about the Volunteering Team
Our Social Action Projects are student-led, so if you are interested in teaching young refugees, hosting tea parties for local elderly people or nature conservation, you can start there.
Find out how community research can help you
Sign up as a community partner or volunteering abroad organisation using our online system
Sports volunteering is a great way to get involved as a coach for young people, or supporting the College’s Everyone Active programme through events and activities.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/your-future-career/what-our-graduates-did-next:
What our graduates did next
Hear from some of our alumni on how Royal Holloway helped them in their chosen career path, from making the most of opportunities at university to the support they had from their academic department and Careers Service.
You can also find plenty more examples of careers our alumni have gone into by looking at our individual academic department webpages in the Department and Schools section.
BSc Management with Human Resources (2015)
Helena, who graduated with a BSc Management with Human Resources in 2015, worked as a HR tax consultant for PwC after graduating before becoming a HR consultant at Ernst & Young.
She said: “Having a good degree is just the tick box that gets you through the door of an interview.
That’s not to underestimate the importance of my degree but employers want more than academics.
My interviewers have been interested about my part-time jobs, my role in Enactus and my volunteering experience.
It’s the situations that show you can work well in a team, that you can communicate effectively and show personal resilience that pay off.
“My best memories of Royal Holloway are mainly of running the ambassador programme in the School of Business and Management.
This role absolutely set me up for the career I’m in now.
Implementing initiatives such as the ambassador helpdesk and a robust recruitment approach provided me with a wealth of transferable skills and great examples for interviews.”
Read more about Helena’s experience, along with some of our other Business and Management alumni, here.
Alumni (royalholloway.ac.uk)
BSc Politics, Philosophy and Economics (2020)
David graduated with a BSc in Politics, Philosophy and Economics in 2020, and went on to become a software engineer for Capgemini.
He said: “Royal Holloway helped me discover opportunities via the resources available to students, for example, I got to learn a bit of Bloomberg Terminal coding, which was really helpful for my modules in Financial Economics and for my career after university.
There was also a lot of interview classes that students can take advantage of to learn how to succeed in interviews with Bulge bracket banks like JP Morgan.
I was also able to secure a Research Assistant role which was very helpful for building the skillset needed for the career I wanted.”
“After university I managed to secure a graduate scheme and got to develop on the technical skills I initially gained from Royal Holloway.”
MSci Physics with Particle Physics (2020)
Alistair graduated with an MSci Physics with Particle Physics in 2020 and went on to work for UK Atomic Energy Authority after completing a placement with them.
He said: "The course prepares you for a career.
Alongside world-leading physics content, we were also encouraged to pursue opportunities in industry or research as well, to help us transition to the next step after university.
"The small size of the campus and especially the Physics department appealed to me, and I definitely made the right decision: The student-to-staff ratio meant we gained access to research opportunities throughout the degree that would simply not be possible at larger institutions.
The range of specialisms on offer truly meant I could discover what I was most passionate about, and working alongside the academics on cutting edge projects allowed me to explore these topics first-hand.
"My greatest professional achievement to date was to be given an opportunity to directly control the largest fusion reactor currently operating in the world."
BA History (2020)
Megan graduated with a BA in History and joined the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport as a Private Secretary.
She said: "A History degree definitely taught me how to write well, write a lot, and write at speed.
These skills have been super valuable when I’m writing papers or minuting ministerial meetings, and I know some of my colleagues have struggled to pick up those skills later down the line.
"Equally, one of the key measures of success in the Civil Service is ‘Seeing the Bigger Picture’ – all those seminar and essay discussions on social, economic and political factors has helped me to factor this strategic thinking in to my day-to-day work.
And, given that Covid has brought the world, country and government the biggest challenge in a century, studying history reminds us that it’s all happened before!"

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/central-london-campus/our-degrees-in-london:
Our degrees in London
Degrees offered from our Central London campus can be taken full-time, part-time or in intensive learning blocks.
Degree options vary depending on the programme, but offer you the flexibility to fit your studies around work or other commitments.
Degrees starting in September 2025:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/central-london-campus/sign-up:
Want to know more about our postgraduate courses taught in Central London?

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/central-london-campus/image-gallery:
Image gallery
Find out more about our central London campus and the surrounding area with our image gallery.
Our London campus is easy to get to by public transport.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/postgraduate/university-of-london-10-discount:
University of London 10% discount
The University of London is a group of leading UK universities based in London.
At Royal Holloway we value the spirit of partnership and collaboration created through this group of institutions and in recognition of that spirit, we are offering graduates of the University of London a 10% tuition fee discount across all our Masters courses.
This discount applies to all our Masters courses, taught at our beautiful campus in Egham or at our Central London campus in the heart of Bloomsbury.
In order to qualify for this discount you must have graduated with an undergraduate degree from one of the universities listed below.
This discount is automatic so there is no need to apply.
To qualify for this discount you must have graduated with an undergraduate degree from one of the universities listed below:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/central-london-campus/accommodation:
Accommodation is available to full-time students studying on our degrees in London.
We have a number of rooms available to full-time students through the University of London Intercollegiate Halls .
They offer a range of accommodation options to help you find the right living space to suit your needs, all located within easy reach of our teaching buildings.
Applications are considered on a first-come, first-served basis so we encourage you to apply as soon as you have your offer.
Click here to find out more about applying
It’s worth noting that there is no parking available at University of London accommodation, though there are parking facilities run by Camden Council at nearby locations.
Find out more about parking .
For those of you who are interested in living in the private sector – whether through a specific provider of student accommodation or with a private landlord - University of London Housing Services are on hand to help our students find the perfect accommodation in London to meet your needs.
A lot depends on the particular location you choose and what kind of accommodation you want.
Take a look at our Intercollegiate accommodation webpage for further information.
If you are renting privately, the University of London Housing Service’s guide gives an indication of rents by postcode.
You can also apply to live at our Egham campus or in the surrounding area if you would prefer to commute into London.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/central-london-campus/supporting-you:
Supporting you
As a postgraduate studying in London, you might be balancing your study with work and family commitments, and may be living away from university halls.
Most postgraduates find their closest contact is with their departmental advisors and supervisors, and there are a range of other academic services on offer to help with your study.
Royal Holloway is renowned for its friendly and caring community and we’ll help you to access personal support and wellbeing services to help you get the most out of your time with us.
As well as your departmental advisors and academic staff we have a dedicated member of staff based at our central London campus, who will be able to help you with any enquiries whilst studying there.
Our central London campus is perfectly located for exploring the employment opportunities and cultural highlights the city has to offer, and we welcome students from all over the world.
Prospective students are encouraged to contact our friendly and knowledgeable International Student Recruitment Team who will be happy to offer advice and help with any questions you may have.
Our International Student Support Office is also available to help incoming students with a range of administrative and wellbeing issues, from visa and immigration advice to adapting to life in the UK.
Whatever your academic needs, the Centre for the Development of Academic Skills is there to ensure you can perform to the best of your ability.
We offer a range of academic skills support, with every student having access to an interactive e-learning module for self-directed study.
Each academic department runs its own subject-specific training sessions to complement your studies as well as discipline-specific training.
Free lectures, workshops, drop-ins and 1:1 tutorials on a range of key academic skills are also available.
Please note some of these services are only available at our Egham campus.
If English isn’t your first language, we offer our Pre-sessional English Language Programme to help you adjust to studying in an unfamiliar academic setting.
The Programme runs for twelve, ten or eight weeks, and is ideal if your IELTS score falls just below the level of English required.
Please note this programme operates from our Egham campus.
There are plenty of spaces available for you to study and meet with fellow students.
In our central London locations, you'll have access to senior common rooms complete with comfortable seating and kitchen equipment - great if you need somewhere to relax between teaching sessions.
You can also take advantage of the fantastic study spaces available in Senate House library .
It may be necessary for you to come to our Egham campus for certain events during your studies.
These may include your examinations and, in some cases, enrolment.
We will let you know if this is the case.
Graduation is also held at our Egham campus.
However, there’s really no need to worry too much about the distance; Egham is an easy 40-minute train journey from London Waterloo and easily accessible from the M3, M4, M25 and Heathrow Airport.
You're welcome to visit Egham at any time and make use of all the main campus facilities open to you as a valued member of our community.
It's well worth a visit as a historic site in its own right.
You’ll be able to make the most of the wealth of public support services offered near the London campus, including many local NHS services, religious centres and opportunities for faith support.
For advice about places of worship, and links to other faith communities and support networks please contact chaplaincy@london.ac.uk .
Our Disability and Dyslexia Service is based at the Egham campus and the team's available in person, on the phone or over email to support you with queries.
Some specialist support activities may only be able to take place in Egham, as there is limited in-person support available in our London premises, so we advise you to discuss your academic and accessibility requirements with us at the earliest opportunity.
Student counselling is available from our professionally-accredited service, and offers personal, emotional and psychological support in a confidential, nonjudgmental and friendly setting.
Coaching sessions can also be arranged.
All face-to-face counselling and coaching services take place in Egham but the team can offer counselling over email or by Skype.
All students can also access support from London Nightline with whom we are affiliated.
Student Well-being provide all students with advice and guidance about maintaining good well-being whilst studying and are a triage point for other services.
The team can offer students in London support by telephone and email and will also support you in locating local services.
All our well-being services have a range of online and self-help resources available.
Royal Holloway is one of seventeen independent higher education institutions that makes up the University of London.
That means as well as having membership of Royal Holloway, you’ll also have membership of the University of London, both as a student and an alumnus.
University of London membership offers several benefits.
Our students are entitled to free membership of Senate House Library, with access to over 2 million volumes and 50 special collections.
You’ll also be able to access University of London Clubs and Societies, University of London student housing, and BLOOM@SenateHouse, a brand-new social and study space for University of London students.
Finally, you’ll have access to University of London alumni benefits.
You'll receive invitations to University of London alumni events - both in London and across the globe - receive alumni membership of Senate House Library, and have access to MOOCs (Massive Online Open Courses) and other Continuing Professional Development opportunities offered by the University of London.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/schools-and-colleges/events-on-campus/register-for-our-monthly-e-newsletter:
Register for our Monthly Schools Newsletter
For more information on how we can support you and your students, sign up to our monthly newsletter by filling in the form below.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/schools-and-colleges/meet-the-team:
Meet the Team
Schools and Colleges Liaison Manager I am very lucky to lead our fantastic Schools and Colleges Liaison team.
My role is to oversee all of our activities and make sure we’re reaching as many prospective students as possible.
We’re always looking for the best ways to support and inform students, teachers, and parents.
Having previously worked in graduate recruitment, I have spent time at many universities across England.
Our stunning campus has always been one of my favourite places to visit, and I love working somewhere so rich in history.
I am very lucky to lead our fantastic Schools and Colleges Liaison team.
Schools and Colleges Liaison Officer South East England I have been a part of the team for almost a year now and my main role is inspiring and motivating students to continue their studies through talks, workshops and attending HE fairs/exhibitions.
My favourite part of this role is the rewarding feeling I get when I have assisted a student making a big decision in their life.
I also studied BA Modern Languages (Spanish) at Royal Holloway, with a Year Abroad in Madrid.
I am delighted to have returned to somewhere I found myself and now helping students to find that feeling.
South East England
I have been a part of the team for almost a year now and my main role is inspiring and motivating students to continue their studies through talks, workshops and attending HE fairs/exhibitions.
Schools and Colleges Liaison Officer South London and West London I enjoy working closely with schools across South and West London to further support staff, students, and parents through the university process.
I have four years of experience working in Higher Education and particularly enjoy having conversations with young people about their decisions surrounding university and hope to make a difference in their education journeys.
I look forward to using my role to inspire students to think about attending university.
South London and West London
I enjoy working closely with schools across South and West London to further support staff, students, and parents through the university process.
Schools and Colleges Liaison Officer North London, East London and East Anglia I have been part of the team at Royal Holloway for a year now and have really enjoyed my journey in to the higher education sector.
I have particularly enjoyed supporting individual students with their personal statements, alongside helping them make informed decisions about their next steps through HE Fairs, workshops and presentations.
I am grateful to be working with a great team and on such a beautiful campus.
North London, East London and East Anglia
I have been part of the team at Royal Holloway for a year now and have really enjoyed my journey in to the higher education sector.
Schools and Colleges Development Officer South West England I am very happy to have joined the Schools and Colleges team at Royal Holloway as their South West Officer.
Starting in December, my time with them has been excellent so far, as I’ve met a wide variety of enthusiastic students and chatted to them about the best steps they can take to pursue their passions.
Prior to joining the team, I worked in the Film & TV industry for several years, taking on duties such as video editing, audio editing, writing, and acting.
When talking to students, I often draw on my experiences from this time, highlighting the career possibilities available after studying at university.
I’m looking forward to gaining more experience in my role and meeting more brilliant young minds across the South West.
South West England
I am very happy to have joined the Schools and Colleges team at Royal Holloway as their South West Officer.
Assistant Schools and Colleges Officer I recently joined the team and my main role involves attending Higher Education and UCAS fairs.
During these I help motivate students to continue their studies and do my best in answering all queries regarding our incredible university.
I also help the rest of the team with administrative aspects.
The best bit about this role is feeling like you have truly helped students decide their path, it is incredibly rewarding.
I studied BSc Zoology at Royal Holloway and had some of the best years of my life.
I am now thrilled to be working for the university that I love, and to share this love with aspiring students.
I recently joined the team and my main role involves attending Higher Education and UCAS fairs.
Schools and Colleges Administration Assistant I have worked in the School’s team as an Admin Assistant for the last 2 years, providing Admin support to our team of Liaison Officers.
I love being able to assist the team in the great work that they do in providing information and support to young people making decisions for the future.
Royal Holloway is a beautiful campus with a sense of community and a mix of historical and modern buildings.
The Founders building is particularly impressive.
I have worked in the School’s team as an Admin Assistant for the last 2 years, providing Admin support to our team of Liaison Officers.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/schools-and-colleges/events-on-campus:
Join us at our events for schools, colleges and individuals.
All of our upcoming events can be found in the UniTasterDays section below.
We are currently taking bookings for the 24/25 academic year.
Please note, this will be subject to staffing and room availability on our campus.
We deliver full and half-day campus visits (subject to availability) to enable students to experience university life and receive information, advice and guidance about higher education.
*Please note due to room capacities we have a maximum of 120 per day for visits.
If you exceed this number the groups will have to be split over multiple days.
To request a campus visit, please fill in our enquiry form .
Note that this is subject to availability.
For other enquiries please contact us - schools@royalholloway.ac.uk
Time
Activity
Group A
Group B
09:50-10:00
Arrive on campus
10:00-10:10
Introduction Session
10:10-10:40
Taster Lecture
10:40-11:25
Campus tour
Student Life + Q&A
11:25-12:10
Campus Tour
12:10-12:50
Information Session
12:50-13:00
Wrap up
13:00
Depart
onwards
Optional Lunch
10:00-10:15
Arrival on campus
10:15-10:30
Introductory session
10:30-11:15
11:15-12:00
12:00-12:30
Lunch
12:30-13:15
13:15-14:00
14:00-14:15
Wrap Up
14:15
We have also developed a virtual campus visit.
Students are able to experience our campus at their own pace and we can arrange a live element (such as a student ambassador Q&A), subject to availability.
http://bit.ly/RoyalHolloway_VirtualCampusVisit
To enquire about a school visit to Royal Holloway or our virtual campus visit, please contact us - schools@royalholloway.ac.uk
We acknowledge the skills and independence developed by students completing the Extended Project Qualification and for many Royal Holloway Undergraduate courses, an EPQ will be taken into consideration and result in lower A-level grades being required for applicants.
To watch and share our short video about the benefits of an EPQ, please click here .
Our EPQ visit days offer students the chance to learn research skills in an interactive session hosted by our librarians, as well as supervised use of our university library.
Students can explore sources and supporting material for their projects while getting an insight into university level facilities.
These visits are subject to the availability of our staff, and the best time for a visit would be between April, June & July 2023.
To enquire about an EPQ visit please contact us - schools@royalholloway.ac.uk
Our team can visit your school or college to deliver talks and workshops, set up a stand at your careers or HE fair, or to work with teachers or parents.
If you would like a member from our team to visit your school or college, please contact us - schools@royalholloway.ac.uk
Our talks and workshops will suit audiences from Years 10-13, and can be tailored to fit your requirements.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/schools-and-colleges/activities-by-subject:
Activities by subject
To find out more about subject-specific activities and resources for schools and colleges, please find the relevant department below.
Not sure which subject to choose?
Have a look at our ' What can I do with my A-levels?
' page.
Biological Sciences offer a series of year-round events, talks and activities for students.
Watch this space for business and management activities coming soon!
Find out more information about the department here.
Members of the Classics department have recorded videos on hot topics from some of their most popular talks for you to watch, or produced PDF versions of PowerPoints and handouts full of information and suggestions for further reading that you can download and use.
We are keen to motivate young people, across age groups and of all genders, to study computer science.
We run an extensive programme of activities with schools to promote student interest in the field of Computer Science at all levels.
Dedicated to improving public and student understanding of our planet, Earth Sciences have developed crib sheets, complete with fun practical exercises, aimed at Year 12 / 13 students.
The Department of Economics at Royal Holloway produces world leading research and teaching on topics ranging from the effect of immigration on labour markets, to how and why stock markets soar and plummet just before news is released, to why children born during financial crises underachieve, to the economic impacts of Brexit, and various issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Electronic Engineering have collated various videos, posters and tutorials for schools and colleges.
Our initiative for KS4 and KS5 English Literature teachers
Click here to visit the English TeacherHub.
The Department of Geography is committed to inspiring the next generation of geographers through a wide programme of activities every year.
Please visit our TeacherHub>Geography page to find out more about the activities on offer for Geography teachers.
Watch this space for health studies activities coming soon!
Our HistoryHub provides learning resources for Key Stage 4 History.
Resources for schools from a world-renowned department.
The Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures (LLC) is committed to working with schools and are engaged in a broad range of outreach initiatives, from media work and online lectures to school visits and webinars.
The resources are designed to bring together a range of online resources for students of Modern Languages (French, German, Italian, Spanish), and covers aspects of language, literature, film, history and visual culture.
Our interdisciplinary and comparative resources, reflecting our popular degrees in Comparative Literature and Culture, Liberal Arts and History of Art and Visual Culture, will also be of interest to students of English, Drama, Art, Film, History and other Humanities subject areas.
Learn more about our Law and Criminology department and listen to our podcast series.
Our Maths Department offers a range of activities for schools, such as a conference for Year 12 students (Exploring Maths) in June, Public lectures, Taster days, Science festival and a series of talks from academics.
This 8-part series, hosted by immersive director Shehani Fernando, gives listeners a practical look at how VR and AR productions actually get made.
If you want to begin creating your own immersive stories or learn more about the XR sector, this is the podcast for you.
With the help of some of the biggest names in the industry, she explores practical tips, case studies and the challenges that make this a really exciting area to work in.
Subscribe on Spotify
Subscribe on Acast
Subscribe on Apple Podcasts
The Department of Music at Royal Holloway is very keen to forge links with schools and colleges.
If you would like to discuss how our experts might be able to support your subject teaching, we would be delighted to hear from you.
There’s a host of Physics events and resources available to schools at every level of study.
The Department of Politics, International Relations and Philosophy at Royal Holloway University generates world-leading research and teaching on topics ranging from the study of elections, to global environmental policy, to issues of immigration and asylum, to youth movements and the politics of young Londoners, to the impact of Brexit, to women’s under-representation in politics, and problems related to Covid-19 pandemic.
Our resources page is designed to share our work with you in a form designed for easy consumption, to stimulate ideas and discussion amongst teachers and pupils in secondary schools.
The resources include blogs, newspaper articles, short academic articles, and podcasts produced by our academics, and organised into themes.
We’re always looking for ways to engage the next generation of psychologists.
Our Social Science department are always keen to engage with students.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/explore-the-campus:
Explore the campus
Steeped in history and surrounded by beauty, but with advanced facilities, all in a leafy and friendly 135-acre estate.
We live, study and socialise in a high-tech, vibrant place, with the Founder’s Building, an impressive Victorian masterpiece based on a French chateau, as its heart.
Likened to Harry’s Potter’s Hogwarts and “living in a castle” by some of the 500 students who live here, Founder’s is also home to the Chapel and the Picture Gallery .
So why not explore our campus facilities, find great places to eat and drink, and discover the historic buildings at Royal Holloway?
Find out how to book a guided or self-led tour of our campus here .
Explore our campus through 360 degree videos to gain a feel for life at Royal Holloway.
View our virtual experience here .
Everything you need to know about parking on campus and how to register for a permit.
Have a look at the magnificent buildings and grounds.
See where to go to eat and drink on campus.
See what the campus has to offer to make student life easy and fun.
Take a look at how we’re investing in the future of our campus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/for-parents-and-supporters/sign-up-to-the-parents-and-supporters-mailing-list:
Sign up to the parents and supporters mailing list
Sign up to our mailing list below and we’ll keep in touch with key dates, useful information and advice on how to best support your student.
If you're a parent or supporter of an enrolled student at Royal Holloway and would like to hear from the university, please complete this form instead.
Call us on +44 (0)1784 414944 or email parents@royalholloway.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/foundation-year/foundation-year-sign-up-for-more-information:
Find out more about our Foundation Year courses
Would you like to know more about studying a Foundation Year at Royal Holloway?
Fill in the form and we will send you information about the courses we offer and what our current students are saying.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/term-dates:
Term dates
Autumn Term
Monday 23 September to Friday 13 December 2024
Spring Term
Monday 13 January to Friday 4 April 2025
Summer Term
Monday 5 May to Friday 13 June 2025*
Winter Graduation
Monday 16 to Thursday 19 December 2024
Summer Graduation
Monday 21 July to Friday 1 August 2025
Monday 22 September to Friday 12 December 2025
Monday 12  January to Thursday 2 April 2026
Tuesday 5 May to Friday 12 June 2026*
Monday 15 to Friday 19 December 2025
Monday 20 to Thursday 30 July 2026
*Postgraduate students do not have a summer vacation period.
If you start your course in September , your summer term runs until your course ends.
If you start in January , it runs until the next academic year begins.
If you hold a Student visa and need advice about working conditions, contact the International Advice Team .for support.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/explore-the-campus/places-of-interest/our-picture-gallery:
Our Picture Gallery
Our stunning Victorian Picture Gallery houses an incredible collection of world-class art.
Students can enjoy an incredible collection of world-class art, housed in our stunning Victorian Picture Gallery.
Many courses use the paintings in their teaching.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate/founders:
Founder's
The Founder’s Building was opened by Queen Victoria in 1886.
It is now home to undergraduate students and also contains a dining hall, café, chapel and picture gallery.
Student rooms in Founder's come in different sizes and with different features.
There are 56 single rooms, 250 single rooms with a washbasin, 103 large rooms and 22 shared rooms, where two students share one room.
Large Single
Large single study bedrooms, arranged in single gender corridors with up to 24 other students.
2025/26 price: £8,911.00
The letting period for all rooms in Founder's is 38 weeks for full time undergraduates.
Single
Single study bedrooms, with or without washbasin, arranged in single gender corridors with up to 24 other students.
2025/26 price: £8,139.60 - £8,240.68
Shared
Shared bedroom between two students, with or without shared washbasin, in single gender areas.
Please note you will not have an option to request who you’ll be sharing with.
2025/26 price: £3,668.14 - £3,801.14
We have a small number of rooms that are equipped with auxiliary aids for students with hearing impairments, and these should be requested when booking your accommodation.
For more details, please see our adapted accommodation webpage .
We strongly recommend that all students with hearing impairments register with Disability and Neurodiversity .
This ensures we can help you access a room with the necessary hearing adaptation equipment, should you find you need it at any point during your stay in the Hall.
To learn more about accessibility in Founder's, please view the building's AccessAble profile.
There’s furniture provided for you in the room, but you’ll have to bring a few bits yourself.
Due to the historic nature of the building, not all rooms have a washbasin.
We provide:
You’ll need to bring:
The University provide you with a mattress protector in your room.
If you’d prefer not to bring your bedding from home, you can pre-order some from our friends at UniKitOut.com who will have it waiting for you on arrival.
Shop now and save 10% by using discount code RHUL10.
WiFi is available in all rooms.
Founder’s is a catered Hall and your rent includes one meal per day, plus a weekly catering allowance of £25, which will be added to your Student ID card.
This allowance can be used at various cafés and dining halls around campus.
It resets every week, cannot be carried over or used at the SU shop or for alcohol.
Our dining halls cater to most dietary requirements (e.g.
vegan and halal).
If you need assistance finding an option that suits you on the menu, just speak to a member of staff at the food counter and we will be able to assist you.
Even though this hall is catered pay-as-you-go, you’ll have access to a pantry.
Pantries are a kitchen type area designed for you to make drinks and light snacks and are shared by up to 24 students.
You need to bring:
The pantries are professionally cleaned weekly, but it’s also your responsibility to keep the shared areas clean and tidy.
No, you can’t bring your car with you to your Halls of Residence.
You can bring your car to campus for up to one hour, but if you stay any longer you’ll get a parking fine.
More information about parking on campus .
All mail arrives at the Main College Post Room and is distributed to the appropriate Halls of Residence within 24 hours.
In Founder’s Hall, letters you receive will be placed in the pigeon holes in George Eliot reception foyer for collection.
If you receive a parcel or item needing a signature, we’ll email you to let you know that it’s arrived and is ready for collection from the George Eliot post room.
Remember to bring valid ID when you come to collect your mail.
Please make sure your post is addressed using your full name, (as it appears on your student ID card, rather than any nicknames or abbreviated names), hall address and room number.
Otherwise we may not be able to get your mail to you.
Founder’s Hall address:
Founder’s Building Royal Holloway, University of London Egham Surrey TW20 0EX
More about sending and receiving mail
The laundry facilities for Founder’s Hall are located near reception.
We recommend using the mobile app.
Security officers are available on campus 24-7.
The main security office is in the Founder's Building.
Officers monitor campus activities on CCTV and with frequent patrols responding to any fire alarm activations and disturbances on campus, as well as ensuring that areas are safe and secure.
Each hall has a reception point where you can report maintenance problems, top up your Student ID Card , and get advice or help.
George Eliot reception is the Halls reception for students living in Founder’s Hall.
This is located on the ground floor of the George Eliot Centre, Block D.
Opening times:
We are committed to maintaining and improving our student accommodation to ensure a comfortable and safe living environment.
As part of this commitment, we will be carrying out essential maintenance and compliance work in internal areas of our halls while students are in residence.
Though there will be some disruption, we will do our very best to keep the impact on our residents to a minimum.
Lounge
01784 911695

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate/reid:
Reid
Reid Hall is near The Hub and Imagine Café, on the southern side of the main campus.
There are 188 rooms in Reid.
30 week contract
The rooms are all single and en suite, and in pay-as-you-go catered houses of 12 students.
2025/26 price: £7,005.44
As this accommodation is for 30 weeks, you’ll need to vacate your room and take all of your belongings away (or put them in storage) over the Christmas and Easter Vacation periods .
38 week contract
2025/26 price: £8,692.88
We have a number of adapted rooms located on the ground floor of Reid with step free access.
For further information, please see our adapted accommodation webpage .
To learn more about accessibility in Reid, please view the building's AccessAble profile.
There’s furniture provided for you in the room, but you’ll have to bring a few bits and pieces yourself.
Reid is a catered Hall and your rent includes one meal per day, plus a weekly catering allowance of £25, which will be added to your Student ID card.
Even though this Hall is catered pay-as-you-go, you’ll have access to pantry.
Pantries are a kitchen type area designed for you to make drinks and light snacks and are shared by the students in your house.
The pantries are cleaned weekly, but it’s also your responsibility to keep the shared areas clean and tidy.
More information about parking on campus
In Reid, letters you receive will be placed in the pigeon holes in the Hub main foyer for collection.
If you receive a parcel or item needing a signature, we’ll email you to let you know that it’s arrived and is ready for collection from the reception desk.
Please make sure your post is addressed using your full name, (as it appears on your Student ID Card, rather than any nicknames or abbreviated names), hall address and room number.
Reid Hall address:
Reid Hall Royal Holloway, University of London Egham Surrey TW20 0EX
The laundry facilities for Reid are next to Imagine in the Hub.
The reception for Reid is in The Hub .
You can use the red phone at reception to contact our security team outside these times.
Exterior

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate/george-eliot:
George Eliot
These halls are on the northern side of the main campus.
These very modern townhouses offer more space for relaxing and socialising than other halls, including a lounge area and a kitchen.
There are two bathrooms per landing, so you’ll share with one other student.
There are 624 rooms in total in George Eliot which includes undergraduate and postgraduate rooms.
Large bed single occupancy in townhouses for between nine and 12 students with communal kitchen and lounge area.
Bathrooms are shared two to every four bedrooms.
2025/26 price: £8,815.24
The letting period for all rooms in George Eliot is 38 weeks for full-time undergraduates.
We have a number of adapted rooms located on the ground floor of George Eliot with step free access.
To learn more about accessibility in George Eliot, please view the following AccessAble profiles:
We’ll provide:
The kitchens are fitted with 13 amp sockets
The kitchens are cleaned and inspected weekly, but it’s also your responsibility to keep the shared areas are clean and tidy.
No.
You can’t bring your car with you to your Halls of Residence.
In George Eliot Hall, letters you receive will be placed in the pigeonholes in the George Eliot Reception main foyer for collection.
George Eliot Post Room opening times:
Term time
Monday - Friday: 9.30am-7pm Saturday: 10am-3pm Sunday: closed
Vacations
Monday - Friday: 9.30am-5pm Saturday - Sunday: closed
George Eliot Halls address:
George Eliot Hall Harvest Road Englefield Green Egham Surrey TW20 0BN
The laundry facilities are in reception.
But if you don’t have an iPhone or Android device, your Halls reception can provide you with a laundry card which can be topped up online.
The George Eliot reception is on the ground floor of the George Eliot Centre, Block D.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate/gowar-and-wedderburn:
Gowar and Wedderburn
These halls sit together, towards the southern end of the campus.
They are close to the Sports Centre, gym and playing fields, and a short walk from the Hub restaurant, other halls and the library.
They offer modern, en suite bedrooms with large beds, and shared kitchen/diners.
There are 217 rooms in Gowar and 353 rooms in Wedderburn.
Large bed for single occupancy en suite rooms in flats of eight with a shared kitchen/diner.
2025/26 price: £9,070.60
The letting period for all rooms in Gowar and Wedderburn is 38 weeks for full time undergraduates.
We have a number of adapted rooms located on the ground floor of Gowar with step free access.
To learn more about accessibility in Gowar and Wedderburn, please view the following AccessAble profiles:
There’s furniture provided for you in the room, but you’ll have to bring some things yourself.
The kitchens are cleaned weekly, but it’s also your responsibility to keep the shared areas are clean and tidy.
In Gowar and Wedderburn, letters you receive will be placed in the pigeon holes in the Hub main foyer.
If you receive a parcel or item needing a signature, we’ll email you to let you know that it’s arrived and is ready for collection from the Hub post room.
Gowar and Wedderburn Hall address:
Gowar and Wedderburn Royal Holloway, University of London Egham Surrey TW20 0EX
The laundry facilities are in the basement of H Block next to the pigeon holes and the housekeeper’s office.
Each hall has a reception point where you can report maintenance problems, top up your Student ID Card , and get advice or help.
The reception for Gowar and Wedderburn is in The Hub .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate/williamson-tuke-and-butler:
Williamson, Tuke and Butler
These halls are on the southern side of the main campus.
They are modern, en suite bedrooms with large beds, and shared kitchen/diners.
In total, there are 74 rooms in Williamson, 184 rooms in Tuke and 209 rooms in Butler.
Tuke - 30 week contract
Large bed for single occupancy, en-suite rooms in eight room flats with a shared kitchen/diner.
2025/26 price: £7,375.68
You’ll need to vacate your room and take all of your belongings away (or put them in storage) over the Christmas and Easter Vacation periods .
Williamson, Tuke and Butler - 38 week contract
Large bed for single occupancy en suite rooms in eight room flats with a shared kitchen/diner.
Gowar offers several adapted rooms on the ground floor, all with step-free access.
Additionally, we provide rooms equipped with features to support students with hearing impairments.
We encourage all students with hearing impairments to register with Disability and Neurodiversity .
This allows us to support you in selecting a room equipped with hearing adaptation equipment, should you find it necessary during your time in the Hall.
To learn more about accessibility in Williamson, Tuke and Butler, please view the following AccessAble profiles:
What will be in my room?
In Williamson, Tuke and Butler Halls, letters you receive will be placed in the main foyer at the Hub.
Williamson Tuke and Butler address:
Williamson, Tuke or Butler Halls Royal Holloway, University of London Egham Surrey TW20 OEX
The laundry facilities are in the basement of Tuke.
The reception for Williamson, Tuke and Butler Halls is in The Hub .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate/runnymede-1-and-2:
Runnymede 1 and 2
These halls are on the southern side of the main campus near the sports fields.
Divided into flats of six to eight bedrooms, all bedrooms have en suite bathrooms and a shared kitchen/diner.
In total, there are 252 in Runnymede 1 and 210 rooms in Runnymede 2.
Single bed self-catering in six to eight bedroom flats, with a shared kitchen/diner.
Runnymede 1 2025/26 price: £8,211.42
Runnymede 2 2025/26 price: £7,288.40
The letting period for all rooms in Runnymede is 38 weeks for full time undergraduates.
Runnymede 2 Refurbishments
As part of our commitment to enhancing student accommodation, Runnymede 2 will be undergoing refurbishments next year while students are in residence.
These upgrades will include brand-new kitchens and en-suites to improve your living experience.
To facilitate the work, students will begin the year in an unrefurbished flat and move to a newly refurbished flat partway through the year.
We understand that this is a unique situation, and we’ll provide plenty of notice and support to make the transition as smooth as possible.
Further details will be shared closer to the time.
The kitchens are cleaned weekly, but it’s also your responsibility to keep the shared areas clean and tidy.
In Runnymede 1 and 2, letters you receive will be placed in the pigeon holes in the main foyer at the Hub.
Runnymede Hall address:
Runnymede Hall Royal Holloway, University of London Egham Surrey TW20 0EX
The laundry facilities are next to Imagine in the Hub.
Each halls has a reception point where you can report maintenance problems, top up your Student ID Card , and get advice or help.
The reception for Runnymede 1 and 2 is in the Hub.
To learn more about accessibility in Runnymede 1 and 2, please view the following AccessAble profiles:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate/penrose-court:
Penrose Court
Penrose Court is a two-minute walk from the main campus, on the north side.
These self-catering flats and houses have four to six bedrooms, each with a sink.
In total, there are 200 rooms in Penrose Court which includes undergraduate and postgraduate rooms.
38 week contract (for undergraduate students)
Single bedrooms with a sink, in self-catering flats and houses with four to six bedrooms in each.
2025/26 price: £4,575.20
50 week contract (for postgraduate students)
Single bedrooms with a sink, in self-catering flats with four to six bedrooms in each.
2025/26 price: £6,020.00
The kitchens are cleaned periodically each term, but it’s also your responsibility to keep the shared areas clean and tidy.
In Penrose, letters you receive will be placed in the pigeon holes in the Highfield Common Room.
George Eliot Post Room opening times: 9am - 8pm Mondays to Fridays and 10am - 3pm on Saturdays and Sundays
Don’t forget to use your full name, Hall address and room number when giving your address for a delivery.
We have a lot of incoming and outgoing mail at the College and without this information your mail might get lost.
Penrose Court address:
Hall of Residence and Room Number,
followed by
Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, Surrey, TW20 0BN
The laundry facilities are in Block One of Highfield Hall.
The reception for Penrose Court is in George Eliot Halls, located on the ground floor of the George Eliot Centre, Block D.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/undergraduate/highfield-court:
Highfield Court
These halls are on the northern side of the main campus in a landscaped setting.
There is a reception point where you can report maintenance problems, top up your College Card, and get advice or help.
In total, there are 126 rooms in Highfield Court including undergraduate and postgraduate rooms.
All rooms are single, en suite and self catering with between six and eight bedrooms in each flat, with shared kitchen/diners.
2025/26 price: £7,961.38
2025/26 price: £10,475.50
The kitchens are cleaned periodically each term, but it’s also your responsibility to keep the shared areas are clean and tidy.
No, if you live on campus, you can’t bring your car with you to your Halls of Residence.
You can bring your car to campus for up to one hour however, if you stay any longer you’ll receive a parking fine.
Find out more about parking on campus
All mail arrives at the Main College Post Room in Founder’s and is distributed to the appropriate Halls of Residence within 24 hours.
In Highfield, letters you receive will be placed in the pigeon holes in the Highfield Common Room.
George Eliot Post Room opening times: 9am - 8pm on Mondays to Fridays and 10am - 3pm on Saturdays and Sundays.
The laundry facilities for Highfield are located in Block One of Highfield Hall.
We recommend using the mobile app if you have iPhone or Android devices.
Alternatively, your Hall reception can provide you with a laundry card which you can top up online.
The reception for Highfield is George Eliot Reception, located on the ground floor of the George Eliot Centre, Block D.
Open Monday to Sunday, 7am to 10pm.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/postgraduate/george-eliot:
George Eliot Halls are on the northern side of the main campus.
Large bed for single occupancy in townhouses for between nine and 12 students with communal kitchen and lounge area.
Bathrooms are shared, two to every four bedrooms.
2025/26 price: £11,599.00
The letting period for all rooms in George Eliot is 50 weeks for full-time postgraduates.
To learn more about accessibility in George Eliot, please view the following AccessAble profiles:
In George Eliot Hall, letters you receive will be placed in the pigeon holes in the George Eliot Centre.
From £12,334.00

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/postgraduate/penrose-court:
50 week contract (postgraduate students)
38 week contract (undergraduate students)
George Eliot Post Room opening times:  9am - 8pm Mondays to Fridays and 10am - 3pm on Saturdays and Sundays

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/postgraduate/accommodation-in-london:
Accommodation in central London
Royal Holloway has access to a small number of rooms in Intercollegiate Halls that are owned by the University of London.
In addition, support is available for students looking for accommodation in the private sector in London.
Intercollegiate Halls
For 2025/26 intercollegiate accommodation available through Royal Holloway will be in Handel Mansions .
We are able to accept applications from March to August and the offer of accommodation will be subject to availability.
Click here to find out more
Private sector accommodation in central London
As we are part of the University of London, Royal Holloway students are able to access support provided by the University of London Housing Services team that offers a range of services to assist and support students who are looking for and living in private rented accommodation in London.
Click here to find out more about the services offered by ULHS

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/disability-and-neurodiversity-support/adapted-accommodation:
Adapted accommodation
All of our adapted rooms are on the ground floor with step-free access.
We have adapted rooms in the following halls of residence:
Have a look at our Campus Map to find out where on campus these halls are located.
Have a look at our AccessAble page to read our access guides to our halls of residence.
Hear from Aria and Scott talking about their experience of living in halls.
To apply for a room with adaptations, please go to our Online Accommodation System , register for an account and then begin the application process.
In the application, you will be asked if you have a disability for which you require either adaptations to your accommodation or have other specific accommodation requirements as a result of your disability.
After answering 'yes' to this question, you will be asked to submit a preference based accommodation application.
You will also need to register your disability or neurodiverse condition with our Disability & Neurodiversity Team .
They will be able to offer further information and advice on how you can be supported in your accommodation and your studies at Royal Holloway.
As part of registration, the accommodation team may be able to offer you a campus visit so that view our adapted accommodation and we can offer you a suitable room.
We have mobility and wheelchair adapted rooms in Gowar, George Eliot, Runnymede and Williamson.
Rooms have been adapted for wheelchair users or students with mobility needs.
If you require a mobility or wheelchair adapted room, we encourage you to register with the Disability and Neurodiversity team as early as possible.
An assessment of your needs can then be undertaken, and a suitable room identified for you.
Bedroom
All bedrooms have lowered mirrors, lowered switches and sockets and an emergency alarm cord.
Additional adaptations vary across the Halls, but include a mechanically operated bedroom door, electrically operated windows, free-standing furniture, lowered hanging rail/storage, low hooks and an adjustable desk.
Bathroom
All bathrooms have wet room showers and toilet handle rails.
An emergency alarm cord is present in the bathroom.
Additional adaptations vary across the Halls, but include closomat toilets, shower hand rails, shower seats and fire alarm beacons.
Kitchen
All kitchens have lowered sinks, worksurfaces, switches and sockets.
Additional adaptations vary across the Halls, but include mechanically operated kitchen doors, door closers linked to fire alarm, side opening oven door, lowered hob, lowered window handles and electrically operated windows.
We have hearing adapted rooms in Founders, Gowar, George Eliot, Runnymede, Reid, Tuke and Wedderburn.
Rooms have been adapted for deaf or hard of hearing students.
These rooms are fitted with mains powered vibrating pillows and fire alarm beacons in the room, shower and self-catering kitchen areas to enable residents to evacuate safely.
Students using hearing dogs are welcomed and would be prioritised for accommodation in one of the ground floor hearing adapted rooms to facilitate easy entry for the welfare of their dog.
We also have mobile equipment that can be transported to any room.
Currently the university has not earmarked specific rooms for persons with a visual impairment.
Students with a visual impairment are encouraged to register with Disability and Neurodiversity as early as possible so that we can discuss with them what adjustments they may need to the accommodation and the locations that would best meet their needs.
If the visual impairment is accompanied with noise sensitivity to fire alarms this must be indicated at the time of application so that priority access to a hearing adapted room can be made.
Some of the alterations that have been made previously include:
· Provision of additional shelving
· Increased lighting levels
· Decreased lighting levels
· Specific colour of light
· Shading of light sources
· Compass orientation to maximise or reduce natural daylight
· Early arrival for onsite orientation
· Facilitate access to cleaning support
Students using guide dogs are welcomed and would be prioritised for accommodation in one of the ground floor rooms to facilitate easy arrangements for the welfare of their dog.
Carers
The university welcomes personal care assistants and rooms will be allocated for them in the vicinity of the student they are supporting.
If you have a condition that requires daily or 24-hour personal care, we can provide a room for your personal carer under the same terms and conditions as other residents (subject to availability).
Personal carers are subject to the terms and conditions of the halls licence agreement.
Any incurred damage costs and/or actions resulting from breaches of this licence agreement will apply directly to the personal carer.
Personal carers are only permitted to live on campus as long as they are providing support to you while you are living on campus.
The University requests that personal assistants establish and maintain clear and appropriate professional boundaries with university staff and students.
You should contact the university’s Disability and Neurodiversity team to understand and to explore the adjustments that can be made.
Responsibility for funding the carer’s room can involve both the local authority and the university, depending on the circumstances and support framework in place.
You should ensure there is clear and early communication between you, your local authority, and the university to clarify responsibilities and avoid delays.
If you are eligible for Universal Credit as a student, your award can include a housing element towards the cost of rent.
This is also extended to the cost of a non-resident carer’s room.
Assistance Animals
Assistance dogs including guide dogs, hearing dogs and emotional support dogs may be permitted to reside in Halls and are subject to legal exemptions under UK law.
Assistance dogs will require to be licensed / registered with an internationally recognised assistance animal provider.
If a student requires such an arrangement, they should contact the Disability and Neurodiversity team to ensure reasonable adjustments can be made.
Please see the Animals on Campus Policy for further information.
Many of our students have a variety of hidden disabilities or medical needs.
Often these can be supported by minor alterations to, or selection of specific rooms.
If you should feel that you may need this type of support please register with Disability and Neurodiversity and discuss what you might need.
• medication fridge
• catered hall option where room requirements dictated self-catered accommodation
• Increased lighting levels
• Decreased lighting levels
• Specific colour of light
• Shading of light sources
• Compass orientation to maximise or reduce natural daylight
• Early arrival for onsite orientation
• Hoist
• Parking
• Post collection
The majority of our adapted and accessible accommodation is located in self-catered Halls.
If you have difficulty with cooking or preparing meals, please notify us as part of your registration with Disability and Neurodiversity team to ensure reasonable adjustments can be made.
Our reasonable adjustments may include provide you with a catered meal package.
Founder's Building to the Student Union
Founder’s Square to Health Centre and Wellbeing Teams Founder’s Building to the Packhorse
Student Union to the Hub
Student Union to the back gate
Royal Holloway Library

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/applying-for-halls:
Applying to live in halls
Applying online is quick and easy, whichever stage of study you’re at.
Find out below how you can apply to live in one of our on-campus halls of residence.
If you're planning to join us in September as an undergraduate student, you can apply for accommodation from 10am (UK time) on Monday 24 March using our online accommodation system .
You'll be able to select the exact room you want to stay in (or if you prefer you can just make a preference and we'll find the best match for you).
You're guaranteed an offer of a place in halls if you make us your firm choice and apply for accommodation by 14 July.
While getting prepared in advance can help you feel more organised, it’s not essential to secure an offer of a room and you can feel reassured that you don’t need to rush into choosing Royal Holloway as your firm choice.
We’ll be releasing a balanced number of rooms from each of our halls on the dates below, to make sure all applicants have the opportunity to book the room type they’d prefer.
Rooms will be released at 10am (UK time) on:
Please remember that once you’ve booked a specific room, you won’t be able to change your mind, even if another room you prefer becomes available later.
Be sure to carefully consider your options before finalising your reservation!
Once you've made Royal Holloway your firm choice, you'll be able to register for an account on the Online Accommodation System .
Please note, it can take up to 48 hours after you’ve accepted your offer before you can register.
Our application window runs from 24 March (10am) to 14 July (10am) when you’ll be able to select the exact room you want to live in.
To confirm your room you’ll need to accept a contract and pay a £300 pre-payment* to secure it.
If you don’t want to choose a specific room, or you apply outside the accommodation window then you will still be able to make a preference for your favourite hall of residence.
All new undergraduate students are guaranteed an offer of a room if you apply by our deadline of 14 July.
Need help with submitting your application?
Please see our accommodation application guide.
Prepayment is non-refundable apart from specific circumstances.
See our Terms and Conditions.
Our application window runs from 17 February (10am) to 14 July (10am) when you’ll be able to select the exact room you want to live in.
All international taught postgraduate students are guaranteed an offer of a room if you apply by our deadline of 14 July.
Please see our accommodation application guide .
If you're studying at our Central London campus, w e have a limited number of rooms in central London (intercollegiate accommodation), reserved for our postgraduate students.
*Prepayment is non-refundable apart from specific circumstances.
You’ll be able to apply for accommodation from 24 March (10am).
We’ll be in touch within 5 working days to let you know if we’re able to offer you a room.
If you are studying at our Central London campus, w e have a limited number of rooms in central London (intercollegiate accommodation), reserved for our postgraduate students.
This information is for students studying with the Royal Holloway International Study Centre on an International Foundation Year or International Year One programme.
You’ll be able to apply for accommodation from 17 February (10am).

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/accommodation-faqs:
Accommodation FAQs
Choosing where you'll live while at university is an important decision.
We've put together some of our most frequently asked questions to help you through the process of choosing and applying for accommodation.
All students that are studying full time at Royal Holloway and affiliated institution students will be able to apply for accommodation in Halls.
These groups are:
Accommodation applications for all students groups are now open!
Royal Holloway will guarantee you an offer of accommodation if you are in one of the following student groups:
To meet the guarantee, you’ll need to either:
*If you are an international postgraduate taught student studying primarily on the Egham Campus and starting your studies in September 2025.
The guarantee does not apply to students who will be starting their studies in January 2026.
No, if you make Royal Holloway your insurance choice you will not be able to apply for accommodation until Royal Holloway is your firm choice.
Yes, UCAS asks for your preference on this for their own data reporting, it will not impact your ability to register and apply for accommodation at Royal Holloway.
Accommodation fees are paid in termly installments on the following dates:
3 October 2025
23 January 2026
15 May 2026
12 June 2026 (PG only)
For further information, please see our adapted accommodation webpages .
Choosing the best student accommodation depends on your personal preferences, whether that’s location, budget or facilities.
When considering accommodation, it is important to consider:
Our choosing the right accommodation webpage contains all the information you need to choose your favourite Hall!
You have the option to specify one additional living preference in your accommodation application, if you want to.
If you do choose an additional living preference, we'll aim to place you in a flat or house with other students who've made the same preference.
For the 2025/26 academic year, the following additional living preferences are available:
If you'd prefer to live with students of the same gender, you can indicate a preference to live in single gender accommodation.
Single gender accommodation only applies to the other students living in your flat or house.
You, and your housemates, are permitted to have students of a different gender stay in the accommodation and in addition, staff or contractors from the University, who are of a different gender, may enter the accommodation if required.
If you'd prefer a quieter living environment, you can indicate a preference to live in a quieter flat or house.
Students living within designated quieter accommodation will maintain a quieter living environment at all times, keeping excess noise to a minimum in their room and communal areas.
Any guests are also expected to comply with this guidance.
Quieter accommodation only applies to the flat or house that is designated and does not include the surrounding flats or external spaces.
If you'd prefer to live in an alcohol-free environment, you can indicate this preference in your application.
Students living in alcohol-free accommodation are expected to not store or consume alcohol in their room or communal areas.
Throughout the year, the University hosts Open Days and Offer Holder Events, where we showcase our accommodation to prospective students.
By opting to live in a show flat, your flat and room will be included in these tours, shown to groups of visitors on pre-arranged dates and times, typically from October to the end of April.
Event dates will be communicated to you at a later date.
Additionally, there may be ad-hoc visits arranged throughout the year.
As a Show Flat resident, you will receive a £150 rent reduction against your Term 2 accommodation fees.
Additionally, your flat's communal areas will be cleaned prior to each Open Day and Offer Holder Event.
Disclaimer: Please note, we cannot guarantee that you will be allocated to a room that meets your additional living preference.
Due to building constraints, demand and availability, we may not be able to offer additional living preferences at every Hall.
Self-catered Halls have shared kitchens where you can make your own meals.
Kitchens have two fridge freezers, a kettle, a toaster, a microwave, an oven and a hob.
If you're in self-catered accommodation, you can still eat at any dining hall on campus and enjoy a 20% discount if you pay using your Student ID card.
Your rent includes one meal per day, plus a weekly catering allowance of £25, which will be added to your Student ID card.
Sample menus:
Sample lunch menu (12-2pm)
Sample dinner menu (5-7.30pm)
All catered Halls have pantries, which can be used to make drinks and snacks and have a microwave, kettle, toaster and larder fridge.
Once you've made Royal Holloway your firm choice, you'll be able to register and apply via our Online Accommodation System .
Please note, it can take up to 48 hours after you’ve accepted your offer before you can register for an account.
These are the most common reasons that student are not able to register for an account on the online accommodation system:
Have you made Royal Holloway your firm choice?
In order to be able to register and apply for accommodation, you need to have made Royal Holloway your firm choice.
Have you recently made Royal Holloway your Firm Choice?
If so, you will need to wait up to 48 hours after making Royal Holloway your firm choice, before being able to register and apply for accommodation.
Are you entering the correct details?
When registering for an account, please ensure that you are using your nine-digit Royal Holloway student ID number.
You will also need to use the date of birth and surname that you used when applying to study at Royal Holloway
If you are still not able to register and apply after following the above guidance, please contact us .
You will need to login to the online accommodation system to accept your offer and then follow these steps:
Once you’ve accepted your offer, you'll receive an automated confirmation email.
It’s important to note that accepting this offer will form a binding contract between you and the university so make sure you've read our terms and conditions before accepting.
In order to accept your offer of accommodation, you will need to make a £300 prepayment.
The prepayment is deducted from your term 1 accommodation fees and is not a deposit.
The prepayment will only be refunded under the following circumstances:
Student who choose to defer their studies or not attend Royal Holloway will not entitled to a refund.
Unfortunately, you will not be able to view your exact room before accepting your offer.
We offer accommodation tours at our open days and applicant visit days .
We also have a range of pictures on our accommodation webpages .
New Undergraduate and New International Postgraduate Taught students will be offered the opportunity to self-select their own room during their accommodation guarantee window.
During this period, you will be able to choose your Hall, flat and room as part of the application process.
Once you’ve started the booking process, you won’t be able to change your room or Hall.
New Undergraduates
We’ll be releasing a balanced number of rooms from each Hall on these dates, to make sure all applicants have the opportunity to book the room type they’d prefer.
Rooms will be released at 10am BST on: 24 March 2025 14 April 2025 12 May 2025 9 June 2025
Your room number will be confirmed in your offer acceptance email.
If you don’t respond to the offer by the deadline your offer will expire.
If your offer has expired, but you're still hoping to live in Halls, please contact Student Accommodation to enquire as to whether another offer can be made.
The arrivals period for students moving into Halls will run from Friday 19 to Sunday 21 September 2025.
If you have accepted an offer of accommodation, we will send you an email at the beginning of September asking you to complete the Induction and Arrivals modules on the Online Accommodation System .
When completing the modules, you will be able to view the arrivals availability and book your arrival slot.
Once you have completed these modules, you will be given a designated check in zone and when you arrive on campus, you will be able to drive to this zone and check into your halls.
If you are joining the New to the UK or Head Start to University Study programmes, you will be able to move into Halls from Wednesday 17 September.
We will send you an email at the beginning of September with arrival information.
If you cannot arrive over arrivals weekend, you will be able to check in at your Hall reception the following week.
If you arrival is going to be delayed for over a week, please notify the Student Accommodation Team.
Please note that you will be charged from the start date of your contract, even if your arrival is delayed.
Please ensure that you bring a valid photo ID and a digital copy of your arrival pass on a mobile device.
Car
Royal Holloway is situated just two miles from junction 13 of the M25.
On arrivals weekend, local signage will direct you towards Royal Holloway and if you are using a sat nav, please use the postcode on your arrival pass.
Plane
Royal Holloway's closest airport is Heathrow.
The International Advice team at Royal Holloway will be providing a free airport pickup on selected dates.
For details on travelling to Royal Holloway from Gatwick or via public transport from Heathrow, please see our arriving to the UK webpage .
Public Transport
The nearest railway station to Royal Holloway is Egham, located in Egham town centre.
Trains from Egham to London Waterloo are direct and take about 40 minutes.
There are three local bus services that that depart from Egham town centre and stop outside Royal Holloway: 8, 441 and 500.
You can order bedding, kitchen and bathroom packs through UniKitOut to make moving into Halls as easy as possible.
You can save 10% using code RHUL10 and have your order delivered to Halls before you arrive.
If you live in university accommodation, or in a house where everyone is classed as a full-time student, you don’t need to pay Council Tax.
No, your Hall fees include utilities.
If you live in a catered Hall, your rent includes one meal per day, plus a weekly catering allowance of £25, which will be added to your Student ID card.
If you live in self-catered Halls, your rent does not include food and you will need to purchase this separately.
Launderette facilities are available at the following locations on campus:
Laundry is not included in the price of your rent and is pay-as-you-go.
Yes, the communal areas in Halls are cleaned once per week, provided all rubbish and recycling has been removed, washing up has been done and counter tops are clear before they arrive.
Cleaners will not clean inside student rooms or in ensuite bathrooms.
No, student who live in Halls are not eligible to apply for a parking permit.
Yes, Royal Holloway has over 600 spaces to park your bike across campus.
The following is included in all student rooms as standard:
You should bring the following items:
For guidance on electrical items, please see our list of approved electrical items in Halls .
Please see our list of approved and prohibited items in Halls .
Yes, Royal Holloway allows students to have overnight guests.
To ensure that all students get the opportunity to know one another and establish your own flat agreement around guests, guests are not allowed during the first few weeks of the Autumn Term.
There will be other times when guests will not be permitted, and these will be notified in advance to you.
These may be during exam season, Summer Ball, and any large University-wide event.
For further details, please see our guest procedure .
Students who accept an offer for a 38 or 50-week accommodation contract, can remain in their rooms over the Christmas and Easter vacation periods.
If you accept a 30-week contract, you will be required to vacate your room over the Christmas and Easter vacation periods.
If you require accommodation over the vacation periods, please contact Student Accommodation .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/next-steps/your-accommodation-offer:
Your accommodation offer
Here’s all you need to know about your accommodation offer from Royal Holloway.
If your application is successful, you’ll receive an email from us.
Make sure you check your email daily during this time.
In addition we recommend that you regularly check the online accommodation system as well in case the offer email is blocked as spam.
Take a look at our Allocation Policy for more information about when you can expect to hear from us.
When we send out your accommodation offer, it'll include lots of helpful information about your contract dates, termly fees and payment due dates .
We’ll let you know what your exact room number is closer to your move in date, when we ask you to complete your induction and arrivals modules .
Log in to the online accommodation system
Then follow these steps:
Once you’ve accepted your offer, we’ll send you a confirmation email.
You'll be given a deadline to accept your offer, so make sure you respond before the offer expires
To support a Covid-19 safe environment room moves will only be permitted in very exceptional circumstances.
All requests must be supported by appropriate evidence and must first be reviewed and assessed by a senior team member of the College’s Student Advisory and Wellbeing department.
For more information about this process please see our Room Move Policy.
If you decline your accommodation offer or let the offer expire, you will not be made a subsequent offer.
It will be assumed that you do not wish to take up a place in Halls and your application for accommodation will be cancelled.
Simply login to the Online Accommodation System
You will receive an email to let you know once an offer has been made and how long you have to either accept or decline this offer.
If you don’t respond to the offer online by the deadline your offer will expire.
So make sure you check your email daily during this time.
It’s also worth logging into the Online Accommodation System on a regular basis just in case the offer email goes into your junk folder.
See when you can expect to receive your offer .
If your offer has expired, but you're still hoping to live in Halls, please contact Student Accommodation in the first instance to find out what options are available to you.
Take a look at our allocation policy to find out how your room will be allocated.
We allocate rooms in two rounds, within the application window.
Take a look at our Student Accommodation Allocation Policy for more information about when you can expect to receive an update on your application.
If you apply after the application deadline of 23 June we will allocate (subject to room availability) on a first‐come‐first‐served basis in date and time order of when your application was received.
Once all room stock is allocated, you’ll be placed on our waiting list.
If you’re an international postgraduate taught student (from outside the EU), we will guarantee you an offer of accommodation provided you submit an application by 12 August.
This guarantee does not apply to couples or family accommodation.
Once we’ve allocated all of our room stock for postgraduate students, your application will be placed on a waiting list.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/social-scene:
Social scene
There's almost always something going on at the campus whether it's drama in our contemporary Caryl Churchill Theatre, a night out in the Students' Union, a meeting of your favourite society or a non-alcoholic slumber party.
Off campus, there's also plenty to keep you entertained from Richmond's parks, galleries and shops to rugby at Twickenham and tennis at Wimbledon.
Why not take a picnic to Virginia Water Lake with friends, spend the day at Thorpe Park or see a film in Egham or Staines?
Windsor Great Park is just five minutes' walk away.
You can stroll all the way to Windsor – perfect for a day out.
All the attractions of one of the world's great capital cities are less than an hour's journey away –  the galleries, the museums, the shops, the bars and nightclubs.
Go clubbing with your friends or take a trip to the Royal Academy to see the latest exhibition – the choice is yours.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/what-our-students-say:
What our students say
We’ve chosen a selection of student stories to give you a better insight into the warm, supportive environment, vibrant social scene and diverse opportunities you can look forward to at Royal Holloway University of London.
Nishall talks about why he chose Royal Holloway
Hear from Lavena and Marta about the skills they've learnt from taking part in societies
Eleni talks about how she has benefited from the supportive community at Royal Holloway
Veronika and Dylan share their experiences of being members of sports teams while studying at Royal Holloway
Andrew is planning a research career in particle physics.
Luca tells us about co-founding the DJ society and the alternative music scene on campus
Sophie talks about how she balances working part time and studying

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/student-media:
Student media
Planning a career in journalism?
Or just want to get involved in student media for fun?
Whatever your motive, our student media offers lots of opportunities to get involved.
We have three main media outlets, all operating from a Media Suite in the Students’ Union:
Insanity broadcasts chart and chat, news and specialist music on AM and FM as well as online 24 hours a day.
Over the years, it’s picked up lots of Student Radio awards from best student radio station to best marketing and productions.
Fancy having a go as a presenter?
Or maybe you’re more interested in broadcast engineering or web development?
There are lots of different ways to help run the station .
The Orbital is our monthly Students’ Union magazine and runs regular training events to help you learn more about journalism and improve your writing technique.
You can get involved as either a writer or photographer.
rhubarbTV is our student television station, broadcasting programmes on everything from current affairs to cookery.
It also livestreams events both on and off campus.
Anyone can get involved, whether you have lots of experience in TV production or have never picked up a camera before.
Follow rhubarbTV
"Getting involved in student journalism has not only introduced me to a new group of friends and a different social scene, but helped me to develop skills which employers really value."
Laura, BA Economics, Politics and Internal Relations, Editor of Orbital magazine
Insanity Radio is Royal Holloway's community radio station.
We broadcast on FM and online, 24/7.
+44 (0)1784 276700

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/students-union:
The Students' Union
Our Students’ Union has a well-deserved reputation for being one of the best in the UK.
It puts on a dazzling array of entertainment from top bands and comedy acts to cabaret, film nights, socials and even a visit from real reindeer at Christmas.
Hear what students say about the Students’ Union on this video.
The Students’ Union also runs a weekly market where you can buy delicious artisan bread and other food plus books, clothes and plants.
And if you like dogs, don't miss the puppy therapy sessions!
Other services run by the Students’ Union include an independent advice centre, the popular Tommy’s Kitchen burger bar, two shops and three bars.
The big event of the year is our Summer Ball – 12 hours of entertainment in the floodlit quads of Founder’s with live bands, fairground rides, dance tents and themed bars.
Watch the video our students made of the Summer Ball in 2016.
We take your safety seriously.
And this means that if you don't want to drink, you shouldn’t feel pressurised to do so.
Read about our commitment to responsible alcohol consumption .
Check out our events calendar .
"Running in the Students’ Union elections is a great chance to try something you would never get to do at any other time.
It made me so much more confident in myself."
Emma, graduate, BA Drama and Theatre Studies, former Students' Union President
Get in touch via email or call us on 01784 276700.
Visit our website to see how to get involved

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/work-while-you-study:
Work while you study
We know that many of you will want to work part-time while you study.
We can help.
Here are some resources to assist those looking for work while studying.
There are lots of part-time jobs on the campus, from restocking shelves in the library to bar and catering work.
The Students’ Union alone employs more than 300 students.
And if you can’t commit to regular work, there are ad-hoc positions like helping with a departmental mail shot or working as a car park attendant.
Find out more about part-time jobs on campus .
There are also many opportunities to find part-time work in the local area including seasonal work at Legoland, Thorpe Park and Windsor Castle; hospitality at Ascot and local hotels; and retail roles in nearby Staines or Windsor.
These are organised by our Careers Service and are a good place to start your search, with local companies recruiting for roles in hospitality,  sport, education and retail, as well as on-campus opportunities.
Find out more about our part-time jobs fairs .
If you’re an international student from a non-European Economic Activity (EEA) country, you will generally face restrictions on your ability to work.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/mature-students:
Mature students
Develop your mind, life and career by entering, or returning, to higher education as a mature student.
We have a long tradition of welcoming mature students (officially anyone over 21), who may have spent a long time outside education.
We welcome your experiences and energy and how you can enhance our community here.
Whatever you're looking to study, you'll have access to a range of specific support aimed at mature students as well as the same fantastic facilities as all our non-mature students.
This includes the Centre for the Development of Academic Skills (CeDAS), where you'll find workshops, one-to-one support and online resources to brush up your essay writing, critical thinking, grammar, exam techniques and presentation skills.
Our Careers team is also on hand to help you create a CV that combines your previous life experience with your new qualifications.
We know you may not have followed a traditional route into higher education so if you don't have the normal entry requirements for our undergraduate courses, or you've been away from formal learning for a while, you may need to take an Access to Higher Education course before joining us.
See below for some advice if you're thinking of joining us as a mature student.
We know most mature students have a well-developed life outside university and you'll need to balance studies with work and family life.
Studying is as much about using time effectively as finding time away from everything else.
Find out what works for you and for those close to you because a work-style 9-5 pattern doesn't suit everyone.
Here's some suggestions for managing your commitments:
Get in touch for advice or support on balancing your commitments while studying or any financial concerns as a mature student.
Email for advice or support .
We understand that it can be hard to balance study while caring for young children.
There is an independently run nursery catering for babies to five-year-olds close to our Egham campus where Royal Holloway students are given priority on places.
Further details about childcare provision in the local area can be found on the Surrey County Council website.
You can also contact our Financial Wellbeing team to discuss your situation to see if you're eligible for any additional financial support.
Entering Higher Education as a mature student can mean your income is reduced and you are more financially stretched.
Monitoring your outgoings and budgeting is important for ensuring your financial welfare.
Make sure you have claimed everything you are entitled to.
There is plenty of support and advice once you’re here.
University can be a great opportunity to take part in fun, active and life-enriching activities beyond your academic work.
As a mature student it may be harder to balance commitments but we have plenty of groups and events on campus, including those run by the Students' Union, so it's worth having a look at what's on offer.
The SU also provides specific support and guidance through the Mature, Career and Parent Students Community.
Financial Wellbeing, Student Life
moneymatters@royalholloway.ac.uk
Students' Union Advice Centre
For free, independent advice on a range of issues
advice@su.rhul.ac.uk
Support contact for mature students

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/care-leavers:
Care leavers
What is a Care Leaver?
The legal definition for a care leaver is a person who was living in care in the UK for at least 13 weeks since the age of 14 and including at some point during the age of 16 and 17.
Join our welcoming community We are here to help you in transitioning from leaving care to starting at university.
Royal Holloway has a richly diverse campus community and our student services are solely dedicated to supporting the broad range of needs of our students.
We welcome students from all over the world to join our close knit and friendly campus community.
Please find below our support for our care leavers community.
If you have any questions, please contact studentservices@royalholloway.ac.uk .
We offer a range of accommodation and to find the best place to live to suit your needs, please visit our Accommodation section on the website.
We provide funding that is especially care leavers with additional funding available in the form of bursaries and grants.
We also provide support for students seeking asylum and support for those with discretionary leave to remain.
We offer bursaries worth £3,000 for each academic year to full-time students from England who are assessed as care leavers.
The £3,000 is paid as a cash award in three instalments over the academic year.
To be eligible for this bursary, you must be applying for a full-time undergraduate degree commencing in 2024, be aged between 18 and 25, and assessed as a care leaver.
For more information please visit our Bursaries section on the website.
There are strict guidelines that must be followed to receive this support, and supporting documentation will be required.
If you think you may be eligible, please contact the bursary and scholarship team who will be able to help you: student-enquiries@royalholloway.ac.uk or 01784 414240.
Visit our Contextual Offers to see if you may be eligible for a reduction of up to two grades lower than the original entry requirements for a course that you would like to apply to advertised on the website or in the undergraduate prospectus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/being-a-student/the-bear-necessities-podcast:
The Bear Necessities podcast
From starting societies to stunning study spaces, get to know Rhys, Maria and Helena and their favourite parts of campus by tuning in to our first episode below.
Not sure where to start when it comes to choosing your university choices?
We're joined by Jim, from our Schools and Colleges team to discuss UCAS applications and how to find your perfect university.
Maria, Rhys and Helena share how they made their firm university choice and offer advice on what to consider when choosing a university.
You've sent us your questions and we're here to answer them.
Maria, Rhys and Helena are joined by Admissions Manager, Cat, to cover everything from the application process through to what types of accommodation we offer.
To learn more about the international support we offer, you can find your country page here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/governance/student-policies-hub:
Student Policies Hub
Browse our student-facing policies, regulations and procedures for more information on our approach to academic matters, student affairs and life on campus.
When you complete your online enrolment with Royal Holloway you agree that you have read, understood and accept to be bound by all our Regulations, codes of practice and policies.
Most of our policies are about responsible behaviour.
They set out your responsibilities as a student, both academic and non-academic, and set out our responsibilities to you.
Breaking any of these regulations could lead to us restricting your access to some services and, in very severe cases, lead to you being expelled from Royal Holloway.
The University policies will be updated from time to time.
Copies of the University policies in place during previous years can be found here
Academic Taught Regulations
Approval and Suspension of University Academic Regulations
Code of Practice for Research Degree Students and Supervisors
Course Closure and Suspension Policy
Enrolment and Student Registration Policy
Extenuating Circumstances Policy
Extraordinary Regulations
Fitness to Practice Policy and Procedures
Intellectual Property and Commercial Partnering Policy
Policy on applications for extensions for taught courses of study
Ratification and Revocation of Awards
Regulations on Academic Misconduct
Regulations on Access Arrangements for Assessments
Regulations on the Conduct of Assessment
Research Degree Regulations
Specialist Doctorate Regulations
Student Engagement Policy
Historic copies of our academic policies can be found here
Acceptable Use of Information Technology
Library Regulations
Student Fee Regulations
Tuition Fee Operational Guidelines
Fire Safety Policy
Health and Safety Policy
Laser Safety Policy
Anti-Bribery Policy
Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech
Data Protection Policy
Student Complaints Procedure
Student ID Card Policy
Support to Study Policy
Whistleblowing Policy
Alcohol, Drugs and Substance Use and Misuse Policy
Animals on Campus
Change of Name Policy
Children on Campus Policy
Dignity and Respect Policy
Fitness to Reside Policy
Policy on Support for Pregnant Students and Students with Very Young Children
Prevent Policy
Student Conduct Regulations
Student Emergency and Trusted Contacts Policy
Student Futures Manifesto
Student Sexual Misconduct Policy
Student Union Code of Practice
Traffic and Car Parking Policy
Financial Statements
Freedom of Information
Modern Slavery Act Statement
Student Accommodation terms and conditions
Student Data Collection Notice

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/Disability-and-neurodiversity-support:
Disability and neurodiversity support
We are proud of our diverse community at Royal Holloway and we'll work with you to provide the support you need to make the most out of university life.
Our team is dedicated to supporting your disability or neurodiversity needs.
We can help with exam arrangements, academic and library support, diagnostic assessments and accessing disabled students' allowance (DSA) as well as making any other reasonable adjustments you require while you're with us.
Once you've confirmed Royal Holloway as your first choice of university, we recommend you get in touch with us as soon as possible so we can get started on organising the support you need.
You can email us or call us on +44 (0)1784 414621.
To find out about the accessibility of our campus and to take a virtual tour, please visit AccessAble which includes a comprehensive series of access guides and accessible routes around campus.
We can put arrangements in place for you according to any recommendations from an appropriately qualified professional, or according to our standard arrangements.
If you need any reasonable adjustments to help you with university life, our team will help communicate these to your academic departments and any other relevant teams at Royal Holloway.
We can provide referrals for students with a specific learning difficulty, if evidence provided is deemed insufficient for Disability and Neurodiversity registration or for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) (please note fees may apply).
We can help you with your application for DSA and with putting in place any recommended support, once your DSA has been approved.
We can provide additional study support such as lecture recordings, accessibility to course materials and help with applying for work placements.
Our library also has dedicated support including extended book loans, appointments with library information consultants and an alternative formats service.
We offer a range of adapted accommodation in our halls of residence.
We recommend a pre-arrival visit to our accommodation to make sure we fully understand your needs.
Please contact us to arrange a visit or find out more about our adapted accommodation.
Hear from our students about their experience of adapted accommodation.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/addressing-harassment-and-sexual-misconduct:
Addressing harassment and sexual misconduct
The University is committed to maintaining an environment which is safe, welcoming and inclusive, and where everybody is treated with dignity and respect.
Bullying, harassment, sexual misconduct (which includes sexual harassment), unlawful discrimination or victimisation are unacceptable behaviour and will not be tolerated.
This section of our website brings together our policies, processes, reporting mechanisms and guidance, including details of our staff and student relationship policy.
This page specifically sets out our commitment to protecting students from harassment and sexual misconduct.
Where we have added links to other policies or information, they do not have precedence over the minimum content requirements that the Office for Students has set out in relation to condition of registration E6.
This webpage is the 'single comprehensive source of information' required by the Office for Students.
The Senior Responsible Officer for this area of work is Dr Nick Barratt, Executive Director, Student Journey.
Harassment is defined in the Equality Act 2010 as: ‘Unwanted conduct related to a relevant protected characteristic, which has the purpose or effect of violating an individual’s dignity or creating an intimating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the individual.’
Sexual harassment is unwanted conduct which is of a sexual nature, whilst sexual misconduct is a broad term used to encompass a range of behaviours including, not exclusively, sexual harassment, non-consensual sexual contact (sexual assault), and non-consensual sexual penetration (rape).
Our Dignity at Work Policy sets out the behavioural expectations for all who are directly engaged for work.
It provides definitions and examples, clarifies roles and responsibilities and sets out how to report inappropriate behaviour.
There is also a Dignity & Respect Policy for students, which sets out our expectations for students.
As a values-led organisation we are committed to taking steps that will make a significant and credible difference to protecting students from harassment and sexual misconduct.
Reports can be made in a variety of ways to best suit the needs of the reporting person.
For students, this includes reports to the Wellbeing Support team, to a member of staff you feel comfortable speaking with, to the SU or through our RH Be Heard named and anonymous reporting platform.
For staff, RH Dignity Voice is an online tool for colleagues to report, in confidence, allegations and instances of bullying, harassment, sexual harassment, discrimination, gender-based violence, hate, micro-aggressions, and safeguarding concerns.
Colleagues may submit a report through RH Dignity Voice (available to colleagues through our staff intranet) with contact details or anonymously for incidents that they may have personally experienced or witnessed.
Students, staff or any other persons can also make reports to campus security.
The University is also committed to working with Surrey Police and specialist agencies to respond to reports made to external teams.
If there is an immediate risk to safety we would strongly advise support is sought from the Police, Security or a Sexual Assault Referral Centre.
The nearest centres to our campuses are:
Egham campus: Solace SARC Surrey
London campus: The Havens, London
A range of personal support is available to students from University services and external specialist teams and we will help students identify the most appropriate and helpful support for their individual needs.
What support is available for me as a student?
Support is available from the University for both reporting and responding students to issues related to sexual misconduct and the University will provide a named contact to you for consistency of support.
Support can be accessed through our Wellbeing Support team .
Allegations of harassment and sexual misconduct are investigated following our policies and procedures, and are guided wherever possible by the needs of the reporting party.
The Student Sexual Misconduct Policy defines sexual misconduct and sets out our approach for preventative and reactive actions.
For students, cases will be investigated under the Student Conduct Regulations and Dignity and Respect Policy with options for informal interventions, and formal processes either for minor or major misconduct.
Investigations will be carried out fairly, impartially and reflecting principles of natural justice.
We aim to provide discretion and confidentiality to ensure those impacted by these issues feel safe and supported in making a disclosure and engaging in support.
We will take all reasonable steps to protect the privacy of those who make a disclosure, and of those who are investigated for allegations of sexual misconduct.
There may be circumstances – for example a safeguarding concern, individuals at risk, or risk to others – where we any be required to share information more widely internally or to external agencies.
Wherever possible we will discuss this with individuals to gain their consent but reserve the right to act without consent where there is an immediate serious risk or safeguarding concern.
The University is required to uphold duties and responsibilities under legislation for data protection, but where it is reasonable and feasible we will provide reporting and responding students with an outcome of investigations and an explanation of the decisions made.
The information shared will be assessed on a case-by-case basis with input from the Legal and Governance team to ensure we are balancing the desire to be open and transparent and our legal obligations.
We are committed to providing information and guidance to students to understand what consent is, to understand what is constituted as harassment and sexual misconduct is, to develop confidence in bystander interventions, how to report concern and what support is available to students and how to access this.
All students must complete a mandatory online course called Consent Matters , a course developed by Epigeum.
The course covers:
During student induction, in welcome week, we run sessions for students to expand on their learning, ask questions, raise awareness of our reporting mechanisms and how to access support.
Each academic year the University Student Life and Students’ Union teams run campaigns to raise awareness and to provide opportunities for students to ask questions, share feedback and raise concerns.
The University is White Ribbon accredited and is actively committed to working towards ending men’s violence against women and encouraging students and staff to make the White Ribbon promise.
The University is committed to providing staff with advice and guidance on responding to disclosures of sexual misconduct and ensuring reports are shared promptly support can be offered.
We inform our staff about the content of this webpage and the requirements of the Office for Students in relation to protecting students from harassment and sexual misconduct so that they have an up to date understanding.
This includes quick guides for staff and promotion of reporting mechanisms as well as specific guidance for Personal Tutors and those in student facing roles.
Face to face training is also delivered for areas most likely to receive allegations.
We also encourage staff to learn more about, and become involved with campaigns and events through the year to ensure a whole university responsibility for preventing sexual misconduct and raising awareness within our communities.
As part of the University’s commitment under the Workers Protection Act 2023, all staff are required to complete the e-learning course Understanding and confronting sexual harassment at work.
This covers:
Line managers and those receiving reports are required to complete a more detailed course, Tackling Sexual Harassment in the Workplace – A Complete Guide, which also covers the legal context, how to handle complaints of sexual harassment, and conduct fair investigations.
We will begin a widescale roll out of these new training courses in during autumn 2025 as part of our communications with staff about protecting student from harassment and sexual misconduct.
Those conducting investigations will be provided with support and guidance from our Legal and Governance Team.
All staff are also required to complete mandatory training in Bullying and Harassment and Allyship.
This policy sets clear boundaries for relationships between Royal Holloway students and staff to protect everyone's wellbeing and maintain academic integrity.
It outlines when relationships are prohibited, disclosure requirements, how to report and the support available to both staff and students.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/your-health:
Your health
Whether you have an existing physical or mental health condition or find your health suffers during your studies, we can help.
Our specialist disability and dyslexia advisers can support you with:
Our health centre in Founder's offers GP/nurse appointments, first aid, physio and psychiatry services.
We can also help you manage stress through relaxation sessions, stress management workshops or individual counselling sessions from our Counselling Service .
Severely visually-impaired politics student Khadija Raza talks about the independence she has gained studying here.
Video by Ayten Abbasli.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/support-and-wellbeing/your-finances:
Your finances
Living on a tight budget is not easy.
We can help you manage your money, learn how to budget and access the funding that you’re entitled to.
Our specialist staff will help you draw up a budget, find part-time work to boost your student loans and grants, and manage debt.
And if you run into serious problems, we may be able to offer you a loan or a grant from our hardship fund .
There’s no need to make an appointment.
Our Support & Advisory services operate an open-door policy.
Just drop by for advice whenever you need to.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/the-local-area/relax:
Relax
Relax and recharge in sweeping parkland and be inspired by scenic surroundings.
If you're looking for somewhere for a break from studying you'll be spoiled for choice at Royal Holloway.
From the sweeping parkland of Windsor Great Park and Virginia Water Lake to miles of waterside walks by the Thames, there's always somewhere to go to clear your head and enjoy some peace and quiet.
Here's some ideas of things to do to relax in the surrounding area:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/the-local-area/leisure:
Leisure
From eating out and shopping to enjoying the arts or seeking adventure, there's a wealth of opportunity on your doorstep at Royal Holloway.
There's plenty of fun to be had when you're not studying.
Central London is just 40 minutes away by train while one of the country's biggest theme parks, Thorpe Park, is just 4.5 miles away.
There's also plenty of choice in shopping and restaurants in the many local towns including Windsor, Staines, Reading and Kingston.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/the-local-area/sport:
Watch international sport or keep fit with a host of available activities in the local area.
If you love keeping fit or if watching live action is more your thing, then Royal Holloway is perfectly placed for all your sporting needs.
As well as an on-campus sports centre, gym, pitches and courts, there's a leisure centre with 25-metre swimming pool in Egham, plenty of watersport opportunities on the Thames and local reservoirs and lakes and nearby golf courses.
Meanwhile, you can support international teams at easily accessible national sports venues.
Here are some ideas of where to play or watch sport in the local area:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/the-local-area/music:
From visiting bands on campus to concerts, gigs and festivals in nearby towns and cities, if music is your thing then there's plenty to enjoy while you're at university.
Royal Holloway's music highlight of the year is the Summer Ball, held in the grounds of our magnificent Founder's Building, with recent line-ups including Ella Eyre, Mabel, Rudimental, Example and Stormzy.
But there's plenty to enjoy off campus too, with live music, open-mic nights and nightclubs in local towns like Egham, Staines, Richmond and Windsor, and all the musical entertainment you could wish for just a train ride away in the capital.
Here are some ideas for live music at Royal Holloway and beyond:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/chris-hines-mbe-awarded-honorary-degree-for-his-commitment-to-protecting-england-s-seas-and-waterways:
Chris Hines MBE awarded Honorary Degree for his commitment to protecting England’s seas and waterways
In 1990, Chris co-founded Surfers Against Sewage.
One of the UK’s most successful marine campaigning charities that raised the alarm about sewage discharge, holding the government to account and pushing for change.
Chris was the Sustainability Director at the Eden Project from 2001 to 2007 and in 2008, he was awarded an MBE for ‘Services to the Environment’.
Now, through his own company, A Grain of Sand, Chris is supporting organisations of all kinds in their sustainability goals.
Chris’s interest in the environment began as a child, growing up on the edge of Dartmoor, with summers spent on Cornish beaches.
A keen surfer and part of the surfing community in the early 1990s, Chris and his fellow surfers understood their favourite pastime brought with it a health hazard via pollution.
Surfers Against Sewage was then born out of what Chris calls ‘righteous outrage’ which succeeded in ground-breaking environmental activism.
They pushed the issue of sewage up the political agenda, and, in 1997, Chris became part of a government select committee which concluded that all sewage must be treated at tertiary level, resulting in a £5.5 billion investment in new infrastructure.
Chris’ role at the Eden Project saw him introduce a waste neutral concept which resulted in a reduction in waste sent to landfill of more than 60 per cent.
In 2005, coinciding with the Live 8 concerts, Chris was instrumental in organising Africa Calling, an alternative concert broadcast from the Eden Project which put African artists firmly in the spotlight and featured a live broadcast appearance by Nelson Mandela.
Today, Chris works with a variety of organisations to bring about positive environmental change.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/royal-holloway-academic-s-new-research-discovers-therapeutic-potential-of-green-basil-and-astragalus-in-treating-liver-fibrosis:
Royal Holloway academic’s new research discovers therapeutic potential of Green Basil and Astragalus in treating liver fibrosis
Plant compounds in Green Basil may hold the potential to treat liver fibrosis – often a precursor to currently incurable liver cirrhosis.
(Photo by Sohail Nachiti / Pexels Image)
Professor Alessandra Devoto and her team from the Department of Biological Sciences at Royal Holloway have discovered antifibrotic properties in plant compounds derived from Green Basil and Astragalus.
The study also introduced a faster, more sustainable extraction technique that preserves compound activity and enhances our understanding of lesser-known plant chemicals.
The findings , published by Current Plant Biology , suggest that root extracts from the plants could potentially play a leading role in combating liver fibrosis, a condition often precursory to fatal liver cirrhosis.
Liver cirrhosis, which currently has no cure, is responsible for more than 4,000 deaths a year in the UK, according to NHS Inform .
With global cases projected to rise steadily through 2039 according to the global burden of disease study conducted in 2019, the need for innovative treatments has never been more urgent.
Working in collaboration with leading biopharmaceutical company UCB Pharma and funded by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), the team developed a biotechnology platform using ‘hairy root cultures’ – a highly efficient system for producing natural chemicals with beneficial effects.
These extracts were then tested on human liver cells in the lab.
The findings were striking: the plant compounds from both Green Basil and Astragalus significantly inhibited the early stages of liver fibrosis in vitro, as shown by the reduction in the buildup of Collagen Type I and Fibronectin - two main markers of fibrotic tissue - without harming healthy liver cells.
Unlike existing antifibrotic drugs like Nintedanib, these plant extracts showed a more precise effect by influencing cell growth and death, while leaving healthy liver cells unharmed.
Image credit: Dr Shannah Secret.
Professor Alessandra Devoto said: "In our journey to understand how nature can heal, we’ve discovered something truly hopeful: certain plant compounds in Green Basil and Astragalus may help prevent the onset of liver fibrosis, hence hold the therapeutic potential of treating liver fibrosis, which can silently progress to incurable liver cirrhosis.”
Currently, plant compounds are underused in medicine due to their low abundance and complex chemistry, though.
“We urge the need for a serious look at the therapeutic potential of plant compounds.
To harness their full potential, we must improve cultivation and large-scale extraction methods,” Professor Devoto continued.
“This is an exciting step forward in exploring the amazing benefits of plant compounds and opens the door to even more wonderful discoveries to come.
It’s not just about pesto!”
Dr Tom Crabbe, one of the leading biomedical researchers, added: “The results of our latest research are very exciting and reveal that compounds of the herbs, may inhibit the early stages of liver cirrhosis.”
“It’s now up to pharmaceutical companies to isolate these compounds and test them in more advanced models of disease."
The research team, which also includes plant biologist Dr Shannah Secret and biomedical researcher Dr Milena Mennecozzi, believes this is just the beginning.
With further development, these plant-based compounds could offer a safer, more sustainable alternative to current treatments.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/new-book-by-academic-highlights-the-lived-realities-of-women-domestic-violence-victims-and-their-legal-challenges-in-pakistan:
New book by academic highlights the lived realities of women domestic violence victims and their legal challenges in Pakistan
Dr Daanika Kamal
After extensive interviews and research by Dr Kamal for her book, Domestic Violence in Pakistan: The Legal Construction of ‘Bad’ and ‘Mad’ Women , Dr Kamal finds that women’s claims are often dismissed through character allegations that label them as ‘bad’ women in need of control, or ‘mad’ women not to be trusted.
The book explores why the subjectivities of women victims are structured in particular ways, and how these prejudices are captured and negotiated in the Pakistani legal system.
Based on an analysis of more than a hundred case files and judgements, seventy-two interviews, and court observations in three cities of Pakistan, the book shadows the experiences of women victims of domestic violence in both criminal law and family law proceedings.
Dr Daanika Kamal said: “I wrote this book to highlight the gendered legal practices that are considered ‘normal’ and ‘common’ in the Pakistani legal system and therefore often ignored.
“By bringing the voices of women who have experienced domestic violence to the forefront, I wanted to highlight the use and impact of adversarial defence strategies and question whether the courtroom can instead be imagined as a space that recognises and values stories grounded in lived experience.
“I also wanted to examine the broader implications of expanding legal definitions of domestic abuse to include psychological and emotional harm, as seen in recent legislative developments in Pakistan, the UK and globally.
“While such expansions are vital for capturing the full scope of coercive relationships, and to acknowledge the complex relationship that exists between domestic abuse and mental health, they may also be (mis)used to reinforce harmful tropes relating to the 'mad' woman.
“In doing so, they risk allowing defence strategies to weaponise the psychological impacts of abuse against complainants in an attempt to undermine women’s credibility and silence their narratives within legal proceedings.”
The book further captures and offers insights into how societal narratives minimise and silence women’s harms, from the deployment of police mechanisms that assist in maintaining the ‘secrecy’ of familial violence, to the application and enactment of boilerplate law strategies to present alternative legal ‘truths’.
It has been published by Oxford University Press as part of the Clarendon Studies in Criminology series, edited under the auspices of three criminological centres: the Cambridge Institute of Criminology, the Mannheim Centre for Criminology at the London School of Economics, and the Centre for Criminology at the University of Oxford.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/new-collaborative-partnership-launched-to-give-leading-research-universities-a-voice-and-boost-uk-research-and-innovation:
New collaborative partnership launched to give leading research universities a voice and boost UK research and innovation
Royal Holloway, University of London.
‘ResearchPlus’ will give a collective voice to universities that constitute a critical element of the UK’s research and innovation system, and that deliver vital research-informed education and advanced skills.
ResearchPlus has the primary aim of enhancing the strength of the UK’s research and innovation base.
Through strategic collaboration and proactive engagement, this new partnership will seek to support economic growth, prosperity, and societal wellbeing across the whole of the UK, working with government, business, and civil society, and complementing rather than competing with other sector bodies.
Professor Julie Sanders, Vice-Chancellor and Principal at Royal Holloway, said: “I’m proud to announce that Royal Holloway is part of this collaboration, and we’re excited about the possibilities it will offer us and indeed the sector over time.
“We all share a genuine commitment to supporting and advocating for our diverse, innovative, research-intensive universities, as part of the wider UK higher education ecosystem.
“As part of our collective endeavour, Royal Holloway will advocate for what matters: our students, and the opportunity we have to develop skills for choice and opportunity, for inclusive research and education and for social purpose.”
The foundations of most ResearchPlus universities were laid by successive government and industry initiatives to invest in economic growth and social development, through fundamental research, the advancement of technology, and the expansion of educational opportunity and the provision of advanced skills.
ResearchPlus universities remain true to those missions and are essential partners for government, businesses, and communities in the expansion and re-imagining of universities’ contribution to the public good.
They will play a vital role in delivering the ambitions of the Industrial Strategy across all eight high-growth sectors.
Over the next few months, the ResearchPlus partners will develop a programme of collective and collaborative work and engagement, with a formal parliamentary launch planned for the autumn.
A spokesperson for ResearchPlus said: “Currently, a significant number of research-focused universities are not aligned to any university mission group.
This is a particular problem for the research and innovation challenges the UK faces.
We cannot afford not to make the most of the UK’s research and innovation capabilities and capacities.
“Through the creation of a new collaborative, ResearchPlus, leading research-focused universities can make a stronger collective contribution to public and policy debates on research and innovation, research-informed higher education, and advanced skills, supporting policymakers and public goals.
“Each ResearchPlus partner has outstanding research teams and specialist areas that are recognised as being amongst the very best in the world, attracting global talent in staff and students.
Each is essential to the success of the industrial and business ecosystems, public services, and community and cultural life in their places.
Together, they, and other similar universities, play the same role UK-wide.
“Our intention is to grow the partnership with other leading research-focused universities and to develop a programme of work and activities to support our goals.”
ResearchPlus Vice-Chancellors set out their manifesto in a blog published by the Higher Education Policy Institute (HEPI) .
Welcoming the formation of ResearchPlus, Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology, the Rt Hon Peter Kyle MP added: “The UK is home to some of the best universities in the world, making ResearchPlus an exciting opportunity to bring that top talent together to solve challenges and unlock new innovations that improve lives across our country.
“By strengthening collaboration between universities, industry and government we can break down barriers to opportunity and work together to drive the economic growth that is central to the Government’s Plan for Change.”
The initial ResearchPlus partners are:
· Brunel University of London
· City St George’s, University of London
· Keele University
· Royal Holloway, University of London
· SOAS, University of London
· The University of Essex
· The University of Hull
· The Open University
· The University of Sussex
· Ulster University

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/research/research-impact:
Research impact
Through our world-leading research and collaborations we aim to advance knowledge and make a positive difference in the world.
Uniting diverse research disciplines, we solve pressing challenges facing our local and global communities.
We're pioneering sports programs that significantly improve mental and physical health outcomes for prisoners; developing novel seed treatments to improve food security; and reshaping our understanding of medieval history by uncovering and celebrating women's crucial yet historically overlooked contributions.
Explore more examples below of how our collaborative and innovative approach to research makes an impact on culture, business and policy, to environment and health.
Each week in the UK, two families receive devastating Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) diagnosis; there are currently around 2,500 patients in the UK and 300,000 patients worldwide with the disease.
Fire has shaped our Earth for over 400 million years.
The increasing impact and scale of wildfire is of major concern even in the United Kingdom where surprisingly between 2009 and 2016 there were over 260,000 wildfire incidents in England alone.
The Polar Regions are being transformed by sea ice melting and strategic competition involving China, Russia and the United States.
Research has been used to improve policy, understanding and education in polar geopolitics.
Many elite professions are highly exclusive according to socio-economic background.
Exclusion from the elite professions is cause and effect of wider social inequalities across the UK and is related to low rates of upward social mobility.
The European Dada movement of the early 20th century was long regarded as a male preserve in which women were relegated to footnotes or mentioned only as the wives, girlfriends, or sisters of Dada men.
Research on the philosophy of Stoicism explores the ways guidance from ancient texts can have a positive impact on our psychological wellbeing.
It's the most common neurological disease after migraine but drug treatments fail in around 30% of cases.
Our research into ketogenic diets has led to a new treatment.
How using Critical Management Studies analysis has helped to influence key factors and improve public understanding about Brexit.
Research on the measurement of war deaths has influenced the Iraq Inquiry and stimulated debate which led to policy change in the UK.
Research illustrates the importance of protecting and improving quality of life, as well as quality of health, for patients with chronic health conditions.
Working with prisoners and tackling reoffending is one of the biggest challenges our society faces.
Sport and physical activity have a unique and important role to play in responding to this challenge.
Professor Walker’s research has led to the development of freely available apps that aid reading in people with Macular Degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in people aged over 60.
The 2014 curriculum reforms of GCSE and A level English Literature created a need for new subject knowledge and new understanding of the discipline itself.
Selecting new materials and manufacturing technologies represents a major challenge to businesses with implications that affect the configuration of the composite materials supply chain.
How can research on the 19th-century novel and its creation of a sense of local belonging in a global world enrich the practices of museums, archives, and heritage sites associated with authors?
Dr Lease’s research on staging difficult pasts has transformed approaches to staging and curation in major  museums in Argentina and Poland and influenced cross-sector collaborations.
Social responsibility in small and medium sized enterprises (95% of businesses) is improved through tools for business networks and policy guidance for the UK Government and the International Labour Organisation.
Britain today is home to over three million people of South Asian heritage, and almost all their families were affected in some way by India’s Partition in 1947.
Investigating how to improve clergy morale, effective ministry and parishioner participation in the most deprived areas of Sheffield Diocese.
Research into deep-water marine processes has helped in determining boundaries of sea frontiers and informed policymakers and industry.
Poor literacy is a pressing global challenge even in high-income countries.
Research within the Royal Holloway Department of Psychology is driving transformative changes in how we teach children to read.
Working with historians has helped museums to develop new content and build interactive visitor experiences to draw in visitors and generate income.
High-quality seed that delivers enhanced seedling performance crucial for crop resilience to global challenges, including climate change, and for future food security.
Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) remains a global health problem.
An estimated 250,000-500,000 children in developing countries become blind each year, due to VAD, and more than half of them die within a year.
Low back pain is a leading global cause of disability with dramatic consequences for productivity and the economy.
The number of children taken into care has been increasing each year since 2008, from around 60,000 children to over 78,000 in March 2019.
There was a long-held suspicion among finance practitioners and specialised journalists that information leakages ahead of macroeconomic announcements were common and generated informed trading.
The Holocaust Research Institute is the leading British research institute on the Holocaust and one of the most prominent in Europe.
Its expertise and research have influenced how the Holocaust is reassessed and remembered.
Indigenous knowledge contributes to the sustainable management of lands, conserving biodiversity and reducing carbon emissions, yet it is marginalised from decision-making and policy arenas.
Research undertaken by Professor Helen Nicholson in Drama and Professor Rachel Beckles Willson in Music has supported new and inclusive forms of creative practice that is artistically inventive, context-sensitive, and sustainable.
2.3 million people live with MS and half experience cognitive difficulties, often overlooked during physical assessments.
A cognitive assessment tool was identified to increase the MS cognition skills of health care professionals.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/education/embedding-employability:
Embedding employability
Career preparation is embedded into our curriculum in a structured way to ensure students are applying their learning and actively engaged with the future as they study.
We do this in a variety of ways using a blend of experiential opportunities, as well as intra and extra curricula programmes.
These activities work in tandem with direct support from the Careers Service to help students connect with employers, make career choices, and find opportunities.
Active and engaged learning
Experiential learning is a key component of our strategy to ensure students are active, engaged and can apply their learning well before graduation.
The college supports all undergraduates to take a year out before their final year to study abroad , do structured volunteering or paid work.
This is accompanied by a Careers Education programme and assessed as part of their degree.
Financial support for these activities is provided through our alumni funded Ignition Fund.
Supporting non-traditional students into work
Students from backgrounds which historically need extra support to secure graduate positions (eg.
lower income or disabled) may take advantage of placements which are also assessed as part of their degree.
Over a six month programme, they are supported with CV development and interview skills, which can then be used to secure two to four week placements during the summer.
Afterwards, students are invited to write a reflective piece, with the experience being recognised on the transcripts.
Financial support is provided for this scheme.
Employability modules embedded into the curriculum
Employability modules are embedded into the curriculum of several departments and form part of student timetables.
Some modules are credit bearing and include contributions from Careers Services consultants and employers.
Other departments allow volunteering or work experiences to be assessed as part of degree earning credits, while some students work on research projects devised by employer partners.
These programmes are all reviewed yearly between each department's Careers Liaison Manager and the Careers Service.
Connecting our students with employers
Course engagement Professionals regularly visit for course talks bringing with them case studies and perspectives from the workplace.
They also conduct authentic assessment activities,  such as workshopping Music composition projects, while in Geography students present their urban promotion plans for real cities to industry assessors.
Employers are also directly involved in curricula design and reform, with all Schools and some departments having active employer advisory groups, overseen by a Director of External engagement.
Careers engagement Students can also engage with employers at our annual careers fairs, on our jobs board, as well as through employer devised competitions.
E xamples include the annual Dragon's Den competition or the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants business game where assessed presentations are based on challenges set by CIMA.
An employer engages students at a Careers event
Personalised support up to six months after graduation
Our Careers Service continues to support all graduates up to 2 years after graduation with access to all of our careers events and 1:1 appointments.
We also provide additional support to widening participation graduates with personalised phone calls in some cases about 8-10 months after graduation.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/biological-sciences:
Professor Sharma's OBE has been awarded for his two decades of research work on stroke in the British South Asian population.
Learn about the work by Dr Becky Thomas, an urban ecologist, who studies how people interact with nature and how the presence of humans can affect wildlife.
General information, meet the staff/department, and key contacts
Study our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes taught by our world-leading academic staff
Explore our diverse and exciting pure and applied research
Discover the many different career paths a degree in Biological Sciences from Royal Holloway can lead on to
“ Biology helps us understand the world around us ”
Source: The Guardian University Guide, 2025
Source: Research Excellence Framework, 2021
Find out the latest news
Find out about our A-Level learning resources, how to organise school visits and talks, and how your schools can get involved in biodiversity projects
Find out more about our departmental events.
Explore our internationally-renowned department with specialist staff and breakthrough research

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/business-and-management:
Royal Holloway Business School
Discover our range of AACSB-Accredited Management and Accounting & Finance courses.
Royal Holloway Business School is delighted to have been positioned in the top quartile for 4* research in the Output category of the Research Excellence Framework 2021.
Find out how you can get in touch with our Academic and Professional Services staff, from across all departments within the Business School.
All about the AACSB-accredited Royal Holloway Business School
Discover what it is like to study at Royal Holloway Business School with us
We continue to build on our legacy of social science-based research, with a focus on critical, ethical, political-economic and international/comparative approaches to management and organisation.
Your future employability is all part of our present mission
“ Grow further with a postgraduate degree from Royal Holloway Business School.
”
Source: Correct as of 2025
Keep up to date with the latest news from the School of Business and Management
The School of Business and Management actively encourages placement and internship opportunities for all our students
Thinking of doing a Management PhD/MPhil?
Find out more here
We welcome collaboration with industry partners in areas such as AI, digital transformation, business and retail analytics and sustainability.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/classics:
Come to our University Taster Day on 10 July 2025 for Mini Lectures and interactive Experiences for School Students!
Get a look behind the scenes by our students and staff!
The Diachronic Classicist: poems, translations, and journalism on living in Greece
Find out the latest news for the Department of Classics
Resources for students, teachers and anyone interested in the ancient world of the Greeks and Romans.
Find out more about our department
Explore what it’s like to study Classics here
Become part of a Classics department with world-class research (REF 2014)
We hold an outstanding record of graduate success
“ The years you're going to spend at university are going to be some of the most exciting and formative years of your life.
Source: Complete University Guide 2025
Roman History Staff and research between Classics and History
Our Classics alumni have forged successful careers in academia and beyond.
Join a Classics department highly rated for our teaching (Guardian University Guide 2018)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/comparative-literature-and-culture:
Explore literature, film, philosophy and art from ancient Greece to the twenty-first century.
Learn more about what you can expect from our BA in Comparative Literature and Culture here.
Following the publication of the results of REF 2021 Modern Languages is placed 5th in the country in the subject research ranking published by the THES.
Academics in the Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures are active researchers with international reputations.
Learn more about our work here.
Researchers across the UK will lead a project called The Sensational Museum to help heritage organisations to reimagine peoples’ experience of museums thanks to a £1million grant.
Learn more about the Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures - who we are and what we do.
Based in the Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures, the Centre for Visual Cultures (CVC) is an interdisciplinary centre for cutting-edge research.
“ Community.
Support.
Choice.
News from the Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures
See what's on
The Centre for Visual Cultures is a vibrant new research centre at Royal Holloway for cutting-edge research into Visual Cultures.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/computer-science:
The MOU supports an innovative partnership which aims to enhance research and technological innovation in transport infrastructure and digital transformation.
A two-day event aimed at training government officials to work with Artificial Intelligence, organised by the Department of Computer Science, was hosted by Royal Holloway.
Our Computer Science students recently won the 1st and 4th place at the 'Capture The Flag' competition organised by King's College London on Saturday 9th November 2024
Study with world leaders in computing research and IT professionals.
We are one of the UK's leading centres for research into Computer Science.
Together with our students, we conceive and develop proven software solutions for our clients.
Who we are and how you can contact us.
“ Projects give students a chance to show what they're really capable of ”
There are multiple ways of working together with our students and our experts, in training or in research.
We are committed to supporting female students and staff at all levels.
From organising hackathons and social events to volunteering at local schools, CompSoc plays an essential role in enhancing student experience.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/drama-theatre-and-dance:
Explore the opportunities on offer in this lively and immersive department.
We're thrilled with our results in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, ranking 2nd in the UK for research quality (Complete University Guide 2023).
Take a look at our industry-standard facilities.
Discover the art of Drama, Theatre and Dance.
Uncover the cutting-edge work of our world-leading academics.
Where can our degrees take you?
“ When students come to a classroom, they really engage with different ways of thinking...
Source: QS World University Rankings, 2024
Source: Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Here you can keep in touch with our latest news.
See the upcoming events in the department and browse the events from the past academic year.
Platform is a refereed electronic journal devoted to postgraduates, postdoctoral researchers, and entry-level academics in the fields of theatre and performing arts.
From internationally famous actors to festival managers – see some of our amazing alumni

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/earth-sciences:
Five scholarships are now available with a cash award of £3,000 for new postgraduate students from under-represented backgrounds studying for our Earth Sciences MSc by Research degree
A major search and rescue operation was launched by HM Coastguard after a cargo ship, thought to be carrying 15 containers of sodium cyanide, collided with an oil tanker carrying jet fuel for the US military off the coast of northern England last week, involving expert analysis from Royal Holloway.
The rupture of Europe’s Nord Stream gas pipelines two years ago resulted in the planet’s largest human-caused release of methane; new study finds.
Key Staff contacts
Find out what it’s like to study in this world-leading department
Our research in Earth Sciences has been classified as world-leading and internationally excellent
Discover where a degree in Earth Sciences can take your career
“ It's an inspiring learning community to be a part of.
Source: The Complete University Guide, 2025
PhD and MSc by research opportunities
There is plenty of opportunity to undertake internships
Find out more about Earth Sciences at one of our events and activities.
Read about the latest news and events in the Department of Earth Sciences.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/economics:
Build the skills needed to excel professionally and create positive change in the world.
Tackling some of the big challenges, we deliver research with social purpose and for global impact.
Explore RH2030s !
Find Your Passion @RHULECON!
Join us on the Open Day , June 14th, to meet our passionate staff and students !
“ Economics is a framework for looking at the world.
Source: THE, REF institutions ranked by subject, 2022
Source: Undergraduate economics degrees, 2023
Catch up on the latest news from the Department of Economics.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/electronic-engineering:
Electronic Engineering students at Royal Holloway, University of London are among the most satisfied nationally according to National Student Survey results.
The latest Research Excellence Framework results confirm Royal Holloway’s position as a world-leading research-intensive university in the area of Electronic Engineering
The Department of Electronic Engineering at Royal Holloway has been formally accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology for their electronic engineering degrees.
All about the Department of Electronic Engineering
Find out about the study opportunities in our dynamic department
We offer opportunities for cutting-edge research in nanotechnology, voice, music and biosignal technologies, and power systems.
Discover how we prepare our students for an industry with excellent career prospects
“ Creativity is at the heart of good engineering ”
All the latest news from the Department of Electronic Engineering.
Find out what recent alumni are doing now.
Find out more about our latest events.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/english:
Royal Holloway's Creative Writing Department has been ranked 4th in the UK by the Complete University Guide.
It was also 2nd in the UK for graduate prospects in Creative Writing.
A gothic tale of murder and corruption by our Head of Department!
In the 1840s, railway Baron Sir Martin Malprelate has been laying waste to the warren of Camden; buying up houses and clearing streets for his new railway line linking King’s Cross with the prosperous town of Middlemarch.
He stands to make his fortune ever more vast and to earn the loathing of all who attempt to stand up to him.
Little wonder, then, that he meets a violent end on a foggy street after walking out of a particularly bitter meeting with outraged residents facing eviction.
But the cause of his death causes more wonder....
Click here for an indicative reading list.
All about the Department of English
Find out the courses you can study at this UK-leading Department of English
Find out about our Research Environment, specialisms and TeacherHub>English, our initiative for KS5 teachers
Gain valuable experience through work placements, internships, and study abroad opportunities
“ You learn how to read in ways that you were never taught before ”
Source: THE, REF institutions ranked by subject 2022
Source: Guardian University Guide 2025
Take a look at the latest news in the Department of English.
From the College’s earliest days, we have nurtured many world-famous names.
See what it’s like to study at a leading UK Department of English.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/geography:
The Department of Geography at Royal Holloway, University of London is world-renowned.
We are in the Top 100 (QS World University Rankings by Subject, 2025).
Ranked within the top 5 geography departments in the UK, and in the top 3 for geography teaching (Times Good University Guide 2025).
The Department offers a substantial and exciting range of field trips in the UK and overseas.
Current locations include Cyprus, Spain, Sicily, and London.
The Department of Geography at Royal Holloway, University of London has achieved a Athena Swan UK Silver Award.
All about the Department of Geography
See what it's like to study a degree in our world-class department.
The Department of Geography is a vibrant hub of international research and researchers.
Take a closer look at what some of our alumni have achieved.
“ The fieldtrip to Spain confirmed to me that this is really what I want to do.
Source: NSS 2025
News in the Geography Department.
Events in the Geography Department.
See what it’s like to study a degree in our world-class department.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/health-studies:
Our new Diploma in Higher Education in Health Studies will welcome its first students in September 2025.
Royal Holloway researchers have successfully piloted the use of extended reality (XR) in public libraries to help local communities improve their mental wellbeing.
Latest article published by Dr Samita Kirve in the journal of OT education
All about the Department of Health Studies
Are you looking to make a difference in the world?
Promoting healthy and resilient societies
Shaping careers in a diverse world
“ Our students join an ambitious department which is well connected and integrated into close and far communities.
Find out about the latest news and events from within the department.
Events in the Health Studies Department
A space to share teaching ideas, best practices and lessons learnt

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/history:
The Department of History will soon hold our latest Hayes-Robinson Lecture, which commemorates Margaret Hayes-Robinson who headed our department from 1899 to 1911.
London author Tony White is the new Royal Literary Fund (RLF) Fellow on campus and he’s here to help you improve your writing
We have just been ranked 21st out of 90 U.K.
institutions in the Guardian and 19th in the Daily Mail - we just keep rising!
Find out about the latest updates from the Department of History.
See the events run by our History Department
A large and friendly department offering a huge range of subject areas from Ancient to Contemporary History.
Explore what it’s like to be a History student at Royal Holloway
Our community is home to a vibrant mix of internationally recognized researchers and rising stars – our PhD students.
Studying history gives you valuable skills for the workplace – and can lead to a surprising variety of jobs.
“ The seminar room is a collaborative learning environment where we scrutinise and debate the past; there are no right answers and we encourage students to develop their own independent views about the big historical topics they study.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/information-security:
Professor Konstantinos Markantonakis receives Royal Holloway’s Festival of Research Engagement Award for Outstanding Mentoring
Dr Fauzia Idrees, from ISG has become one of 50 women in the UK to win the Women’s Engineering Society (WES) award (WE50).
Professor Keith Martin from the ISG published his expert insight in response to some reported improvements in algorithms threatening modern cryptography.
Find out more about the Information Security Group (ISG)
Find out what it’s like to study a world-changing subject in a world-leading department
Research areas in the department
Many of our graduates go onto interesting careers in Cyber Security
“ A fully fledged interdisciplinary department focusing on all aspects of information and cyber security ”

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/languages-literatures-and-cultures:
Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures
What can you expect from a degree in Modern Languages at Royal Holloway?
Find out more about our courses here!
Meet our team!
The homoerotic work of the Granadan painter Gabriel Morcillo Raya (1887-1973) within the context of his own era and Spanish Orientalism.
An exciting new postgraduate opportunity - a unique interdisciplinary MA course is jointly delivered by several University of London federation members.
Explore a fascinating breadth of material, looking at foreign culture and literature
Our graduates are extremely well-placed to take full advantage of a globalised jobs market

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/law-and-criminology:
Department of Law and Criminology
Discover the latest news from our Department: events, blogs, and other achievements from our academics.
A quick outline of some of the award-winning research carried out in our multi-disciplinary department
Our students can engage in exciting outreach activities as Student Advisers and Summer Interns during their time with us.
Read key information about our Department of Law and Criminology
Why study one of our programmes?
Explore our interdisciplinary research areas
See where one of our degree programmes could take you
“ My work in criminal justice is a real world topic.
Source: Undergraduate degrees, 2024
We are home to a number of programmes in Social Work, one of the largest provider of continuous postgraduate social work training in the South East
The LAC Law Clinic at Royal Holloway, University of London, provides free legal advice and information to the general public.
News from the Department of Law and Criminology

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/liberal-arts:
Professor James Williams has published a new book exploring the life and work of Afro-Caribbean intellectual Frantz Fanon (1925-1961).
A recent photograph by Dr James Kent, ‘Living quarters in Downtown Havana’ (2022), has been selected for the prestigious Summer Exhibition at the Royal Academy of Arts, London.
Our extensive library stocks more than 600,000 volumes and subscribes to over 17,000 print and online journals.
In this talk, Dr Elena Cooper, a copyright historian and author of Art and Modern Copyright: The Contested Image (CUP 2018), argues that being in the Gallery also brings copyright history alive.
Ideal for students who are creative and inquisitive, Liberal Arts allows study of a broader range of areas than is possible in a traditional Single or Joint Honours degree.
We are based in the Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures within the School of Humanities.
Find out more about the degree here.
Interdisciplinary study for the creative and inquisitive student.
“ "I use my own research in my teaching as much as I can and also learn from my students" ”
Source: School of Modern Languages, Literatures and Cultures, Guardian University Guide 2018
Source: Times Higher Education, REF 2014
Source: National Student Survey (French) 2019
Learn critical and communication skills, cross-cultural understanding and foreign language proficiency.
All in a diverse and welcoming environment.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/mathematics:
Hear directly from some of our students about their experiences of Mathematics at Royal Holloway
The National Student Survey (NSS) 2024 results have confirmed high levels of satisfaction with teaching and overall experience among students in the Department of Mathematics at Royal Holloway.
BSc student Murray Child together with Professor Martin Widmer publish paper in research journal.
All about the Department of Mathematics
See what’s on offer in this pioneering and internationally respected department
The mathematics department has world-class researchers.
Where can your Mathematics degree take you?
“ It's inspirational for students to know they're being taught by world experts ”
Source: The Times and Sunday Times University Guide, 2025
Source: NSS, 2024
Take a look at the latest news in the Department of Mathematics.
Seminars, webinars, virtual taster days ...
Centre for Combinatorial Methods in Algebra, Number Theory and Applications

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/media-arts:
We're thrilled with our results in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, and we have been ranked in the top 10 in the UK for overall four star research by Times Higher Education.
These individuals are helping to put together the UK’s largest immersive storytelling archive project, part of UNBOXED 2022.
Click here to find out more.
Victoria Mapplebeck, an academic at Royal Holloway has won a BAFTA in the Short Form Programme category for her short film Missed Call about her young son’s journey to reconnect with his absent father
Find out what it’s like to study Media Arts
Discover the opportunities on offer in this creative and critical department
See where one of our programmes could take your career
Discover the opportunities available in our world-class department
“ One of the most enjoyable experiences as a lecturer is watching students become directors, cinematographers, sound designers ”
Our Media Arts degree programmes can open up many career options.
''...is teaching.
To pass on the skills I've learned to a new generation.''
Details of media arts events

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/music:
The Department of Music at Royal Holloway has climbed to 7th place in the Complete University Guide 2026, solidifying its position among the UK’s Top 10 institutions for studying music.
The Music Department at Royal Holloway is delighted to announce scholarships for students starting our MMus degree in September 2025.
Recent league tables recognise Royal Holloway as one of the UK’s leading universities to study Music.
Welcome to the Department of Music
Study in one of the leading Music departments in the UK
Our work on music covers a broad chronology and geography
Music graduates from Royal Holloway have had particular career success
“ The best thing is doing what I love.
Source: REF 2021, Times Higher Education
The Department of Music are thrilled to share with you our annual series of events, from the International Concert Series to Departmental Research Seminars.
Resources for music teachers on pre-university courses.
Find out more about our community
The Department of Music at Royal Holloway boasts a variety of professional-standard performance and rehearsal spaces located across campus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/philosophy:
In February 2025 the Philosophy Society visited Athens, the birthplace of Western philosophy, to visit the sites of the trial and execution of Socrates, Plato's Academy, and Aristotle's Lyceum.
John Sellars has recently edited The Cambridge Companion to Marcus Aurelius' Meditations, bringing together leading experts in ancient philosophy to examine this perennially best-selling work of philosophy.
Professor Henry Somers-Hall has recently published the Deleuzian Mind , a collection that brings together new work by internationally recognised scholars of the philosophy of Gilles Deleuze.
Welcome to Philosophy at Royal Holloway.
Philosophy is the study of big questions - about truth, knowledge, value, and beauty.
As such it is perennially relevant.
It is also about questioning critically received truths and learning the skills of logical argument.
These skills are relevant in any and every walk of life, and they never go out of date.
A degree in Philosophy will set you up for your life, both personally and professionally.
In the sections below you will find further information about us, the programmes we offer for both undergraduates and postgraduates, our research, and what you can do with your degree in Philosophy.
Explore what it’s like to study Philosophy here
Research in the Department of Philosophy
Where can Philosophy take you
“ I want my students to feel empowered to argue...
The latest news from the Department of Philosophy
What's on in the Department of Philosophy?
“…  is the way in which their philosophies can inform how people live their lives."
See a full list of our courses.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/physics:
Dr Vanessa Graber features in the BBC's ‘Sky at Night’ programme, with her fascinating interview on her work on Pulsars at Royal Holloway.
Study for undergraduate (BSc and MSci) and postgraduate (MSc, MRes or PhD) at one of the UK’s most celebrated Physics departments
Discover research degrees in our department that spans a wide range of fundamental and applied areas of Physics.
Welcome to the Department of Physics.
General contact information, information for alumni, policies and initiatives on equality and diversity
Get involved in world-class research in condensed matter physics, quantum technologies, particle physics, accelerator science and theoretical physics
Find out about careers after studying physics, potentially in high technology industry, academic research, finance and more.
There is also information in career support and graduate destinations.
“ Our cutting-edge research underpins teaching, creating an inspiring learning community for our students.
Source: Physics subject rankings, The Guardian University Guide 2025
Source: National Student Survey 2024
Source: Research Excellence Framework 2021
Take a look at our news.
See the latest events, like public talks and seminars, from Physics.
Evening lectures, schools visits, open days.
We strive to create a diverse and balanced community of students, researchers and academics.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/politics-and-international-relations:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 recognises Royal Holloway as a world leading centre of excellence for research in Politics and International Relations.
Three final year students from PIRP - Tom Atmaciyan, Arnisa Ismaili and Meera Natarajan - took part in the fifth annual BISA Model NATO on Wednesday 6 th March 2024, joining approximately 120 participants from 31 UK universities.
Read what Chloe thought of her time at Royal Holloway and get an insight into her placement.
Find out about the department
Innovative degree programmes with superb teaching and excellent research credentials
An introduction to our world-leading research and our research centres
Where can you take your career after graduation?
“ I try to get students on my courses involved in actual research projects ”
Source: THE REF institutions ranked by subject, 2022
The latest news from the Department of Politics and International Relations
What's on in the Department of Politics and International Relations?
Find details of the degrees offered by our department.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/psychology:
Department of Psychology
Researchers have called into question claims that turning on television subtitles can help children learn to read.
Dr.
Danijela Serbic, a senior lecturer in the Department of Psychology at Royal Holloway, University of London, has received the Higher Education Psychology Teacher of the Year Award.
MSc Applied Neuroscience led by the Psychology department gives a great insight into neuroscience in real world settings,  and is taught by leading neuroscientists using cutting-edge equipment.
Our world-class research and award-winning teaching makes us one of the top Psychology departments in the country.
We bring students in touch with the frontiers of psychological knowledge
See what it’s like to study Psychology here.
We are ranked joint 3rd in the UK in the latest REF exercise
Our alumni are forging successful careers following their studies
“ We have a great relationship with the lecturers ”
Source: Times Higher Education, 2022
Source: Complete University Guide, 2023
Find out about the latest news in our department.
Discover what our students have to say about their experiences
Read about our series of talks and keynote lectures, and other events in the department.
Explore psychology resources for the post-16 curriculum and events we organise for schools

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/social-work:
We are pleased to announce that following the publishing of the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 results our research activity has demonstrated significant strength in impact and the value of our multi-disciplinary research base.
Social Work contributes to national and international knowledge development through research activities.
Our research aims to inform social work knowledge, policy and principles and is an important part of our approach to teaching and learning.
Click here for information on recent research presentations to the European Social Work Research Association Conference and the Joint Social Work Education and Research Conference (JSWEC).
Each project aims to support and improve professional practice, professional development and social work education across the Partnership.
We are part of the Department of Law and Criminology within the School of Law and Social Sciences, where you will benefit from an interdisciplinary approach.
We are one of the largest providers of continuous postgraduate social work training in the South East.
Prepare for the choices ahead with high level of employability within six months of qualification
“ It was most challenging but one of those courses that makes you bring out the best in yourself.
3 years part time
Read more about our Law and Criminology offerings.
Read more about our criminology and sociology and criminology and psychology offerings.
Find out more news on what's happening at Social Work
Read more about our degree courses here.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/schools/school-of-engineering-physical-and-mathematical-sciences:
Welcome to the School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Sciences
The School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Sciences consists of the departments of Computer Science , Electronic Engineering , Mathematics , Physics and the Information Security Group .
Together we are delivering world-class fundamental research and impact and supporting our students in their studies.
The school consists of the departments of  Computer Science, Electronic Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and the Information Security Group.
The school supports interdisciplinary projects as well as small group and individual research agendas.
We welcome the opportunity to work with companies, organisations and schools.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/schools/school-of-humanities:
School of Humanities
Welcome to the School of Humanities
The Humanities help us understand ourselves, others, and the world around us; to be curious, creative, critical, and empathetic thinkers; and to express ourselves, our knowledge, and ideas in new and different ways.
Here in the School of Humanities at Royal Holloway, we offer a rich and diverse, research-led curriculum that helps prepare students for the future of work, cultivates a global outlook, and engages with the challenges of today and tomorrow.
Across our four Departments, Classics, English, History and Languages, Literatures and Cultures, we combine international leadership in research with excellence in teaching, working together as a community committed to supporting our students to broaden their horizons and pursue their interests.
Our work is also shaped by the socially progressive mission of our nineteenth century founders, Elizabeth Jesser Reid and Thomas Holloway, pioneers committed to widening access to higher education.
Today this spirit manifests itself in our commitment to social justice, equality, and inclusivity.
“We are committed to providing teaching that crosses disciplinary lines, giving students a diverse and enriching experience of the Humanities.
From the study of Classical and World Literatures to our courses in Creative Writing and Public History, we want our students to have the chance to follow their interests and develop skills.
We also work closely with external partners to bring students opportunities and experiences that beyond traditional degree boundaries, building up a base of skills to fuel their future careers.
Our view is that the Humanities aren’t traditional, static subjects – they’re active, alive and evolving.
With that in mind, we are passionate about championing civic, social, and environmental awareness and engagement through studying our degree courses.”
Professor Giuliana Pieri
Executive Dean, School of Humanities

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/schools/school-of-law-and-social-sciences:
A Welcome from the Head of School
Welcome to the School of Law and Social Sciences at Royal Holloway University of London.
The School is strongly interdisciplinary and brings together criminology, economics, forensic psychology, international relations, law, philosophy, politics, sociology and social work subjects and expertise.
We are home to the following Departments and Research Centres:
This site provides a gateway to the exciting teaching and research carried out in and across our departments.
We will continue to build the site to demonstrate how these activities are brought together in the School of Law and Social Sciences.
I hope some of you looking at this website will join us in that journey - as students, as research collaborators, or in other ways.
You can find details below of how to contact us with general enquiries and details of the leadership of the School.
I would encourage you too to follow the links to our Departmental sites.
Each Departmental site describes a wide range of academic endeavour and expertise.
Working together in and between the Departments, crossing academic boundaries and responding to the needs of the communities in which we are based, we can create new opportunities that transcend the limits of specific academic disciplines.
What can criminologists learn from economists for instance?
The law and politics may often clash - so can bringing together the study of these two disciplines help understand decision making, debate and conflict?
How are the needs of the different communities in which we are based reflected in the social, economic and political systems we study?
There is much more of course and I hope this website will enable you to share some of the excitement we feel that the School creates to learn and teach about these issues more.
Thank you for your interest.
Professor Matthew Humphreys - Head of School
Click here to read about our school strategy
Click here to find out more about the school's executive members
Click here to read more about the school advisory board.
Click here to read more about Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
Departments recognised for world leading research quality and impact
Click here for research in the Department of Economics
Click here for research in the Department of Law and Criminology
Click here for research in the Department of Politics and International Relations
Click here for research in the Department of Philosophy
Click here for research in Social Work
The Gender Institute at Royal Holloway, University of London looks to become a hub for study, teaching, learning, and activism about gender and sexuality on campus.
The Legal Advice Centre at Royal Holloway, University of London, provides free legal advice and information to the local community.
Our Centre is student-led, under the supervision of qualified legal professionals.
Click here to find out more about studying in the department of Economics
Click here to find out more about studying in the department of Law and Criminology
Click here to find out more about studying in the department of Politics and International Relations
Click here to find out more about studying in the department of Philosophy
Click here to find out more about studying Social Work

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/schools/school-of-life-sciences-and-the-environment:
The School of Life Sciences and the Environment’s vision is to be world-leading across the full range of disciplines that make up our school: Biological Sciences, Earth Sciences, Geography, Health Studies, and Psychology.
Our subject areas are professionally accredited and we work closely with employers, accrediting bodies and providers to ensure that work mirrors the highest ethical and professional standards.
Our mission is to make positive societal change by producing high impact research, working with UK-based and international partners, and delivering highest quality of teaching to our diverse student communities.
We are very proud of the fact that our graduates are playing their part in addressing contemporary challenges in healthcare and well-being, biomedical sciences, agriculture and plant sciences, environmental sustainability and biodiversity protection, natural resource management, heritage planning and global development.
Please do feel free contact us directly if we can be of any assistance.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/schools/school-of-performing-and-digital-arts:
Royal Holloway is one of the founding partners of SMART, the new London International Smartphone Film Festival taking place online from 21-25 June 2021.
Dr Zubin Kanga, lecturer in Royal Holloway’s music department, has been awarded a £1.4 million UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship for his major research project, Cyborg Soloists.
This year marks the 150th anniversary of the Paris Commune of March-May 1871.
Professor Dan Rebellato of the Department of Drama, Theatre & Dance is delivering five essays for BBC Radio 3.
Welcome to the School of Performing and Digital Arts at Royal Holloway, University of London.
When the School was established in August 2018 it brought together the departments of Drama, Theatre & Dance , Media Arts , and Music .
The School is home to over 1,000 students--approximately 831 undergraduate, 135 postgraduate taught, and 130 postgraduate research students from the UK and overseas.
We have over 9 0 academic and administrative staff members, who bring a diverse range of teaching, research and practical expertise within and across our three departments.
While we focus heavily on the distinct departmental strengths, we are also building interdisciplinary collaborations within the School, new courses and degrees which allow students to draw on the excellence across the School.
Read more here.
All about the School of Performing & Digital Arts.
We work with a variety of organisations and institutions.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/research/public-engagement-with-research:
Public engagement with research
As a University of Social Purpose, public and community engagement with research is embedded in all that we do.
It allows us to tune into society by listening, learning and connecting with new audiences, to ensure research is relevant and informed by those who benefit from it.
The National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement defines public engagement as "The myriad of ways in which the activity and benefits of higher education and research can be shared with the public.
Engagement is by definition a two-way process, involving interaction and listening, with the goal of mutual benefit."
Royal Holloway is very proud to have signed the NCCPE’s Manifesto for Public Engagement.
The Manifesto reinforces the need for public engagement, and its value to universities and for society.
Many of our academics engage new audiences with their cutting-edge research through local, national and international events and festivals.
Highlights include our own annual Science Festival , now proudly in its 25th successful year, and PLAY!
, a week-long celebration of the most innovative music, film, and theatre at Royal Holloway.
In addition, our researchers regularly lead sessions at the ESRC Festival of Social Science.
Our academic Directors of External Engagement support researchers to inform, inspire, consult and collaborate with new audiences through university and researcher led initiatives.
Our Research and Innovation team identifies new funding calls and opportunities, and provides guidance and support at pre-application and during the project.
Our Public Engagement Manager leads our place-based strategic initiatives, ensuring our research connects meaningfully with local communities and stakeholders.
The NCCPE advocates for the role of public and community engagement in building a more inclusive higher education sector.
Its website explains why public engagement is so important – and offers a wealth of ideas, guidance and practical resources to help successfully steer your public engagement activities.
A landmark initiative, making a public declaration of our shared commitment to working together in the interests of the wider Surrey community.
How we collaborate with communities, organisations and networks across our local area.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/research/research-culture:
Research culture
Research culture encompasses the values, practices, and environment that support and promote research activities within a research institution.
This includes the attitudes of colleagues and students towards research and each other, the availability of resources, collaboration opportunities, and the recognition of research contributions.
Fostering a positive research culture is the responsibility of everyone at the University.
The Staff Research Environment Working Group has identified five themes of a positive research culture which is guiding us as we develop our Framework and our research culture.
Theme
By this we mean:
Outward Facing
Engaging with the community, both other parts of RHUL, but also externally (national and international), encouraging others to work with us, making it easy for them to do so.
Inclusive
Making sure that everyone is heard.
Ensuring that processes are fair and take account of personal circumstances.
Equal opportunities.
Everyone’s contribution to research is recognised and valued.
Collaborative
Combining intra-, inter- and cross-disciplinary inputs and expertise.
Support for careers of others across career stages and job families.
Enabling
We embrace failure as learning within a culture of innovation and transformation.
All researchers are supported and support each other to develop their work and their research careers.
The environment we work in is inclusive and inspiring, enabling colleagues to flourish, expand horizons and to feel valued and fulfilled.
Efficient & Effective
Individuals have access to the support they require at the point of need.
Processes and procedure are simple.
There is a commitment to transparency and accountability.
Effective management of researchers’ time, including flexibility in what way that works best for the researcher/research.
Technicians are a key component of our success, supporting teaching and research activities.
Royal Holloway offers a huge range of support for research staff, including, EDI networks, training and development, and impact funding.
We've held the European Commission's HR Excellence in Research Award since 2019, recognising our full adoption of the principles of the Concordat.
We undertake excellent research to the highest level of integrity and ethical responsibility.
Our annual Festival of Research brings together students and staff to celebrate the vibrant research community at Royal Holloway.
A statement setting out Royal Holloway’s commitment to the aims and principles of Open Research.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/research/research-students:
Research students
Royal Holloway has a vibrant community of over 600 postgraduate researchers undertaking research in all areas of academic disciplines.
Alongside expert support from their supervisors, students have access to central facilities such as generic skills training courses and library facilities.
The Doctoral School brings students together from all departments to stage interdisciplinary research symposia and social events.
Royal Holloway is a member of several Research Council doctoral training partnerships and centres which offer full funding and training programmes, as well as offering over £4m of funding from the College itself .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/classics/studying-here/undergraduate/inclusivity:
Inclusivity
The Classics Department is committed to a Classics for all policy.
We are open to students of all social and ethnic backgrounds, gender identities, and educational pathways.
We are committed to the support of an inclusion of our diverse student body and to a curriculum which represents diverse interests and perspectives.
We seek to address directly issues of inclusion within our teaching and support particular groups which have been and are still too often disadvantaged in accessing the curriculum and achieving excellence.
We further recognise that there is much to be done in ensuring social and intellectual inclusivity and are committed to working with our students to better achieve our goals
Students of all backgrounds are welcomed and supported to succeed in the Classics Department at Royal Holloway.
We are open to students of all social and ethnic backgrounds and educational pathways, provided applicants have achieved at a level sufficient to provide assurance that they can succeed in the particular degree programme.
For many years, we have welcomed students who have not had the opportunity to study the Ancient world in their prior education.
As many as half of our students are in this category.
Even for students who have had some prior experience of studying antiquity, that experience is varied and limited.
Such experiences do not provide foundations in all our various fields of study (languages, literatures, archaeology, history).
Consequently, our approach is to treat all incoming year one students as beginners and draw on the rich and varied prior experiences of our students.
This ensures an inclusive and level playing field.
Our curriculum provides introductory level courses in year one, intermediate courses in year 2 and specialist courses in year 3.
There is thus a structured ladder to develop students from all backgrounds towards excellence in attainment.
Our focus at each level is on the development of critical skills.
This means that at each level, students should develop the necessary skills to progress to the next level even if they shift studies into a new curriculum area.
Our language courses are necessarily different.
The majority of our students enter without having studied an ancient language.
We offer beginners’ level courses in ancient Greek and Latin and a structured pathway so that those students who wish can progress to reading Greek and Latin literature in the original at intermediate level and to a greater range and extent by year 3.
For those students who have experience of studying ancient languages, at whatever level, we will engage with your individual experience and acquisition to ensure that you have the opportunity to learn language at a level suited to you.
Other than the language-acquisition courses, all our other provision is taught using translations.
Our personal tutor system works to help students as individuals in their academic progression.
We will use focus groups to seek to identify issues affecting students from backgrounds and families which have had limited or no access to higher education.
We will support students in dealing with issues such as campus access, social inclusion, and academic resources and guidance.
We acknowledge that there are and have been particular issues for BAME students in studying Classical subjects.
These issues relate to
We particularly welcome applicants from BAME backgrounds as part of our commitment to rectify some of these historical imbalances.
Dissertation topics  and year 2 projects are co-created with students and may be designed to focus on related issues.
The study of Classics has a long tradition of providing a congenial intellectual climate in which people can explore gendered identities which at various points in history have been regarded as non-normative.
The differences between attitudes to sexuality and gender in the ancient world and those in modernity have provided and continue to provide a point of resistance to repressive attitudes and high-prestige role models.
Consequently, the Classics have provided a vocabulary for describing LGBTQ+, with ‘Greek love’, Sapphic, and Lesbian, being the most obvious terms deployed.
Many of the most prominent LGBTQ+ intellectuals and activists have drawn inspiration from the Classics.
The Classics Department is proud to contribute to that intellectual tradition.
The Classics Department has a strong tradition of supporting and empowering the LGBTQ+ student and staff community, contributing workshops for example to the university's annual celebration of LGBTQ+ History Month.
The Department works closely with university central services in providing pastoral support for students who are exploring identities.
LGBTQ+ awareness and issues are integrated into much of the curriculum, from modules explicitly focusing on gender in classical antiquity and contemporary approaches to Greek and Latin literature, to language-acquisition modules which study ancient Greek and Latin texts that foreground issues of gender, sexuality and identity, such as Plato's Symposium or Latin love poetry.
LGBTQ+ issues figure frequently in History modules that look at attitudes towards gender and sexuality.
Students are also warmly encouraged to explore the history of LGBTQ+ culture and to express their own identity through the co-creation with academic staff of second-year research projects and final-year dissertations.
Recent dissertation topics have included, for example, treatments of Sappho in contemporary fiction; weaponising sexual deviance in Roman historiography; the educational context of Greek homosocial relations; sex and gender in Greek vase paintings; power dynamics in same-sex love poetry; and Nero and the reception of his sexuality.
Gender issues are a central theme in our research and public engagement activities, with work focusing on the representation of sexual desire and identity figuring significantly, particularly within Latin literature.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/teaching-3/teaching-excellence:
Teaching excellence
Our world-class teaching is driven by our commitment to an inclusive approach, constant innovation, and sustained excellence.
All students at Royal Holloway can expect a blended learning approach with access to smart technology, a variety of learning and experiential activities outside of lectures, as well as timely and well considered assessment activities.
Our research excellence impacts our teaching
Third year student Tiger-Lily Goldsmith presenting at the 31st International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence and the 25th European Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
Royal Holloway is a research intensive university highly ranked in the Research Excellence Framework , or REF.
Research therefore forms a major part of our curriculum at all levels and students can expect to directly benefit from the latest developments in enquiry across all subject areas.
Research developments not only inform the curriculum, but students are also exposed to research skills and methods of enquiry from early in their courses, with research design and organisation introduced in later years.
In the final year of undergraduate study or Masters, students have the opportunity to do a dissertation or conduct a specific piece of long form research.
This helps pave the way for further study at the graduate or postgraduate level with particular support for underrepresented groups.
Students in research In recent years, student research projects have won prizes or contributed to published papers at international conferences such as the 2018 IEEE Conference on Blockchain, or the WISTP International Conference on Information Security Theory and Practice.
First Place Cyber 9/12 Strategy Challenge 2021 Atlantic Council Cyber Strategy Challenge, UK Recipients: Emma Smith, Kyra Mozley, Sofia Liemann Escobar and Stephanie Itimi (Centre for Doctoral Training in Cyber Security
A curriculum designed for the future
We are committed to preparing students for life beyond the classroom and, to that end, our curriculum is future focused with clear links to industry through not just subject matter but direct learning experiences on courses.
Students have access to guest lectures from leaders in the field, placements and work experience opportunities that count towards their degrees, study abroad experience and industry driven activities.
Our Schools also directly engage with employers, through Employer Advisory Groups, to ensure the curriculum is aligned with real world applications, and to connect students with opportunities before they graduate.
You can learn more on our Embedding Employability page.
Our authentic approach to student evaluation
Good assessment and feedback allow our students to evaluate and validate the progress of their learning.
We are committed to doing this in an authentic way so that students are assessed clearly against their learning outcomes, and in ways that provide useful feedback on their learning progress, whilst minimising stress.
PhD candidate meets with supervisor
This project seeks to review and rethink the approach to assessment with the aim of:
Assessment and Feedback Strategy
Policy on the Return of Marked Student Work and Feedback
Reflecting on and improving our pedagogy
Our annual academic reviews require all our teachers to reflect and report on their teaching delivery and student outcomes taking into account views from peers, students and external reviewers.
Our review cycle
Key elements of our review cycle:
Our professional, statutory and regulatory recognitions
The college and our Schools meet the accreditation requirements of various professional, statutory and regulatory bodies.
All accreditations are listed here .
Professional accreditation Because of our accreditation with various professional bodies, many of our students graduate with an accredited professional qualification.
In 2022, 68% of our graduates attained a PRSB qualification.
School of Business and Management’s Association graduates receive Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation, seen as the most stringent and globally recognised accreditation for business schools, while British Computing Society students gain degrees with National Cyber Security Centre/GCHQ certification, one of only 5 institutions with the award, and the only institution accreditation for both 3-year BSc and 4 year integrated MSc degrees.
See what degrees our students have earned in recent years
Learn how our students have performed in their degrees in recent years through our Degree Outcomes Statement .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/teaching-3/teaching-innovation:
Teaching innovation
Royal Holloway is committed to innovative teaching and each year we encourage our staff to consider new approaches to stretch and inspire our students.
Our Education Team provides support to do this through professional development courses and seminars, access to and support with new learning technology, as well as annual prizes to incentivise new thinking and approaches.
Embedding site-specific video lectures in teaching for En2001 and EN3021: Middle English Poetry Dr Alastair Bennett
One department's holistic approach to student success
THESIS, or Teaching in Higher Education - Supporting and Inspiring Students , is a pedagogy group in the Department of Psychology spearheaded by the teaching staff.
Started in 2017 by Dr Danijela Serbic (THESIS Director and Founder), THESIS designs innovative activities to support the curriculum, helps peers innovate in the classroom, and inspires students and staff to achieve their best.
Support for Psychology students THESIS supports students with essay writing skills, mental health initiatives, revision skills, career progression activities, as well as equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) support.
Students help co-create the initiatives, write blogs on a variety of topics and often progress to larger roles within the group.
Elise Gear started as a student editor on one of the blogs hosted by the THESIS group but has now taken on a larger role.
Watch Elise talk about her role on THESIS from master's student to pedagogic practitioner.
Support for Teachers Along with the Early Careers Symposium for Psychology teachers, THESIS hosts Pedagogic Research Seminars and provides consultancy and training across the sector.
Watch Dr Sam Fairlamb discuss the seminars and how they help teaching staff in the Psychology Department.
Teaching Awards THESIS has won numerous teaching awards , and in 2017, Professor Victoria Bourne was awarded a National Teaching Fellowship by the Higher Education Academy.
Learn more about THESIS.
Nurturing belonging
The Case Study Method – An Inclusive Pedagogy is one of six projects funded in each of our Schools for academic year 2022-23 to help tackle the awarding gap.
This project is undertaken by the School of Business and Management.
Objectives of the project
The project’s aim is to examine the effectiveness of case method teaching as an inclusive pedagogy for reducing the awarding gap.
More specifically, the research objectives are as follows:
Project leads:
Improving use of employability services
E4S: Enhancing Early Engagement with Employability Support is another in the series of innovative projects which received funded in academic year 2022-23 to help meet a strategic goal.
This project focusses on efforts to improve the employability prospects of our students and is being undertaken by the School of Performing and Digital Arts with Humanities.
To increase engagement and participation in the Professional Skills and Insights Programme (PSIP), and central Careers events and 1:1 meetings, by students from the Schools of Performing and Digital Arts and Humanities who belong to the priority groups identified in the Access and Participation Plan, namely those from areas with low higher education participation, students from the most socioeconomically deprived areas and Black students.
Project lead:
Dr Nick Hall, Lecturer in Film and Television Studies & Director of Undergraduate Education School of Performing and Digital Arts
Peer to peer mentoring for improved belonging
This Peer Mentoring to Succeed project (PEMENTOS) project is undertaken by the School of Life Sciences and the Environment (LSE) and is one of six centrally funded projects to help tackle the awarding gap.
Objectives of the project:
Improving transition to university
The Student co-created pre-arrival/transition module is one of the centrally funded projects being undertaken in academic year 2022-23 to help tackle the awarding gap and other strategic goals.
This project is being undertaken by the Central Academic Services team.
Towards more authentic assessments
Inclusive Assessment is one of our six centrally funded project aimed at improving attainment .
This project is being conducted by the School of Business and Management.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/teaching-3/supporting-academic-success:
Supporting academic success
Royal Holloway supports students to complete their programme of study and acquire the best possible degree.
Our approach is holistic, with students receiving not just academic assistance, but also wellbeing, mental health and financial support which we know have an impact on students' ability to perform.
We also use technology to monitor our students' engagement and provide dedicated pastoral care so we may quickly identify challenges and provide intervention support.
Ensuring a great start
Transition refers to the adjustment to university, which presents challenges for all students and can be steep for some.
Royal Holloway addresses this through a standardised approach called the Academic Transition Framework which emphasises three objectives: belonging, confidence, and reinforcement.
Our Schools and departments develop activities to ensure students are properly on-boarded, provide adequate academic support throughout their first term, and help them to reflect and settle by the end of their second term.
There is also a centralised online hub for all new starters to access information as well as Welcome Week activities.
Welcome Week is for both our UG and PGT starters in September and January, where we provide academic and other activities to ensure our students are fully supported in joining Royal Holloway.
A departmental Welcome talk for new students
An introduction to university life
HeadStart is a transition programme designed for those who may need extra support transitioning to university such as students with contextual offers or those who may be the first in their families to attend university.
Held over two days prior to the start of term, HeadStart provides information about the cultural aspects of university life, as well as practical information and study skills.
Started in 2021, this programme has already seen positive results in terms of retention rates and first year performance by participants versus students of similar profiles in the same or previous years.
Fostering belonging
The Big Read helps students foster a sense of belonging through the choice of a novel which all incoming new students are invited to read and discuss with peers through structured and unstructured sessions when they arrive on campus.
Started by Kingston University, Royal Holloway first joined The Big Read in 2022-23, mailing the book to students prior to arrival.
The Big Read 2022 title
Setting the foundation for success
Integrated Foundation Degrees are four-year degree programmes (versus the standard three) for students who may need to develop more skills or confidence to prepare for undergraduate study.
Those skills are developed in the first year of the programme, called an integrated foundation year, after which students progress throughout their degree course with the same curriculum as their peers.
Introduced in academic year 2019-20, the programme has been a success, with students doing just as well and in some cases better than peers in standard three year programmes.
Support to build academic skills
The Centre for the Development of Academic Skills provides both one-to-one support for students as well as dedicated School support through Learning Developers.
Through online and face to face workshops, tutorials and other activities, CEDAS helps all students with basic academic skills such as numeracy, communication, writing, etc.
Learning Developers also help each School tackle the specific needs of their student body through tailored programmes.
CEDAS also manages the Pre-sessional English language programme for students who may need academic language help before starting their programme of study, as well as Contemporary Britain modules for visiting international students.
Monitoring engagement for intervention support
The Engagement project is another intervention programme that uses data from online learning technologies and attendance reports to identify each student's engagement levels with a view to providing intervention support as needed.
Each School has an Engagement Panel which meets at least twice a term to review data, and quickly act to help students, with Personal Tutors and other services involved.
All our students are assigned a personal tutor.
Personal tutors are academic staff who teach within the same subject area being studied by their tutees but do not necessarily teach them directly.
They provide guidance and support for students through advice, signposting, and pastoral care.
All students are provided with a range of different academic advising activities, focused around small group tutorials and 1:1 tutor/tutee meetings
In addition, each School has designated staff who provide academic advisory support, with educational resources for students and support for personal tutors.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/education-at-royal-holloway/students-as-partners:
Students as partners
We believe students should be partners in their own education and take the student voice very seriously.
Students help create their own education experience through regular feedback, co-creation exercises, and participation in decision making in each department, School and university-wide.
We have a strong partnership with our students union which provides regular policy reports on education matters and whose 350 elected education Academic Representatives sit on various committees at different levels.
Below are some of the specific ways in which students influence the education experience at Royal Holloway.
Academic Representatives are students elected by their peers to provide feedback about the education experience at Royal Holloway and help make decisions.
They also help to disseminate information to peers, ensuring a constant dialogue.
There are 350 such reps who sit on various committees at different levels, depending on their role.
System of elected Reps
From time to time, the students' union provides policy reports on various issues affecting students.
These are fed into decision making at the highest level and in the past, have directly impacted changes, improvements, or new initiatives.
Examples include the:
Our students provide us with regular feedback which help us shape the education experience and the support we provide.
These are one through regular and intermittent surveys and feedback panels.
Module surveys are held termly after each module ends and the results are used to make improvements and modifications for successive cohorts.
Some departments also employ mid-module surveys.
RH100 - is a focus group with a panel of 100 paid rotating volunteer students.
These students represent a cross-section of our student body and consider various academic issues to help us make shape the education experience.
Among other issues, the panel has considered matters relating to:
There are 3-5 meetings of this panel each year.
Action meetings are held with students sporadically and as the name suggests, allow departments who use them to consult students on actions to be taken and ensure they are both informed and can participate in decisions.
These meetings are often focussed on a single issue or proposal and help ensure that students are co-creators of their teaching and learning environment.
Business and Management has also introduced termly student meetings with the School's senior management team.
Live-log system is a digital platform that allows Academic Reps to provide feedback on issues in real time prior to formally structured meetings.
These issues may then inform agenda items or if possible, allow or quick action.
Students not only shape their learning environment, but are directly involved in the design of courses through a co-creation process with academic staff.
Examples include:
Students are also actively engaged in projects to meet our strategic goals.
Some of these projects can be found on our Teaching Innovation page.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/education-at-royal-holloway/our-people:
Our people
Our teachers and tutors are experts in their subjects and bring research experience and real world expertise to the classroom.
Many hold senior fellowships and other distinctions in pedagogy.
National Teaching Fellowships are reserved for teachers with outstanding contribution to student outcomes.
The awards are made annually by Advance HE through nominations from member institutions.
As part of our commitment to an inclusive learning community, we actively pursue diversity at all levels among our staff and provide development support.
Programmes include:
Between 2017-21, the proportion of female professors at RHUL rose from 30.5% to 32.1% (above the sector average of 28.5%), while BGM professors rose from 7.7% to 10.1% (just below the sector average of 10.6%).
The Academic Board creates our education strategy and oversees all decisions related to education and teaching at Royal Holloway.
Learn more about the Academic Board .
The Inclusive Education Board monitors our progress in reducing inequalities, improving attainment, close the awarding gap and going beyond the deliverables in the Access and Participation Plan to improve the ways that we teach and assess.
Current funded projects include improving BGM peer mentoring, the extension of Headstart , inclusive assessment, and early employability support .
The Education Development Team supports the ongoing training and development of our teaching staff and provides support on learning technology, curriculum development, and teaching innovation.
The team also supports postgraduates who teach.
This team runs various courses for Advance HE courses to ensure teaching quality.
CAPITAL: The Certificate in Academic Practice in Teaching and Learning is a postgraduate certification required of all lecturers and senior lecturers at Royal Holloway and must be completed before the probation period.
inSTIL: Programme in Skills of Teaching to Inspire Learning is for visiting lecturers, postgraduates who teach, lab technicians and anyone who interacts with students in the classroom.
It helps participants develop knowledge and skills necessary to effectively support student learning and the confidence required for effective teaching
This team also runs the teaching and college prize schemes which are used to recognise performance as well as incentivise quality teaching.
Annual prizes include the:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/collaborate-with-us/spinout-companies:
Spinout companies
The Royal Holloway Spin-Out Support Programme is designed to transform groundbreaking academic research into high-impact commercial ventures.
We provide researchers and academic entrepreneurs with the guidance, funding, and infrastructure needed to successfully launch and grow spin-out companies.
Expert mentorship and commercialisation guidance
Pre-seed and seed funding
Legal, IP, and administrative support
4.
Training and workshops
5.
Access to networks and facilities
This programme is open to academic staff, postdoctoral researchers, and postgraduate students at Royal Holloway with a commercially viable idea rooted in university research.
Whether you’re at the concept stage or ready to incorporate your venture, we’re here to help.
If you're ready to take the next step in turning your research into real-world impact, get in touch with our Knowledge Exchange team at rhinnovation@rhul.ac.uk .
Royal Holloway is fully committed to embedding a culture of innovation and excellence and to achieving real world impact through its research.
We therefore welcome the publication of the Independent Review of University Spin Out Companies which provides a framework to underpin the commercialisation of research and the opportunity to ensure best practice is followed throughout the sector.
The University substantively adopts all the Review’s best practice guidance including agreeing spin-out deals on market terms, avoiding unnecessary negotiations and implementing the equity splits identified via TenU’s University Spin-out Investment Terms

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/collaborate-with-us/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) is UK’s leading knowledge transfer government grant scheme that aims to help businesses access the University’s expertise and trigger transformative growth, provide academics with valuable opportunities to apply their knowledge and research skills to real world business challenges, and offer graduates a unique platform to shape their career path.
A KTP forms a three-way collaborative partnership between a business or a not-for-profit organisation, academic team and a qualified graduate.
Find out more about KTPs below:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/collaborate-with-us/social-science-impact-accelerator:
Social Science Impact Accelerator (SSIA)
We unlock the benefits of world-leading social science expertise for communities and organisations in our region, the UK and the world.
We offer:
Cover photo by Diego Nunes on Unsplash

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/collaborate-with-us/become-a-research-partner:
Become a research partner
Recognised as one of the world’s top research-intensive universities, Royal Holloway is ranked 15th in the UK for the overall quality of its research outputs (Times Higher Education, REF2021 outputs scores), with 88% of research rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in the Research Excellence Framework 2021.
The University offers several pathways for collaboration, each designed to deliver innovation and meaningful outcomes across a wide array of sectors.
Royal Holloway welcomes collaboration on both new and ongoing research projects.
A range of opportunities exist for co-developing grant-funded or fully-funded projects with external organisations.
External partners can sponsor PhD studentships tailoring the project to their research needs.
This enables partners to facilitate research that aligns with their strategic goals, while gaining access to cutting-edge academic expertise.
These partnerships often involve joint supervision, which enhances knowledge exchange between the organisation and the University.
PhD studentships may also be appealing to organisations looking to upskill their own employees.
Royal Holloway supports the licensing of University-developed technologies and intellectual property.
This allows external parties to commercialise innovations, benefiting from the University’s research excellence.
If you are interested in collaborating with Royal Holloway, please contact us via RHInnovation@rhul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/physics/research/superfab:
Superfab
UK Centre for Superconducting and Hybrid Quantum Systems (UK-CSQS)
SuperFab at Royal Holloway, University of London is a world-class university cleanroom and home of the UK Centre for Superconducting and Hybrid Quantum Systems (UK-CSQS).
SuperFab is owned and operated by the internationally renowned Department of Physics at Royal Holloway in association with the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) and JEOL as an open user facility serving academic and industrial interests.
UK-CSQS is an exciting collaboration between Royal Holloway, NPL and Lancaster University dedicated to the development of quantum device technology through the application of fundamental phenomena based on superconductivity.
Our Research

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/earth-sciences/research/research-facilities:
Earth Sciences - research facilities
Research facilities
Continuous development of cutting-edge instrumentation and measurement methods, make it possible to analyse small samples with high levels of precision that are not normally available.
The department has a range of custom designed laboratories including analogue modelling and computer laboratories for our collaborative research programmes.
The facilities are available for commercial analysis, collaborative research, internal projects and training courses.
Aerosol laboratory
Analogue modelling laboratories
Elemental Analysis laboratory
Environmental geochemistry laboratory
Greenhouse Gas laboratory
Laser-ablation-ICPMS laboratory
Low-blank laboratories
Mutli-collector isotope laboratory
Rock Crushing laboratory
Scanning Electron Microscope
Sea Ice laboratory

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/research/research-environment/research-institutes-and-centres/omnidrome-research-and-innovation-centre:
Omnidrome is a hub for world-leading research, innovation, education and knowledge exchange for air, land, and water-based drones, robotics and autonomous vehicles.
Omnidrome applies Royal Holloway’s research expertise in air, land and water-based drones, and acts as a springboard for engagement with industry partners, local government, non-governmental organisations, and commercial partners.
We aim to bring together a multidisciplinary community of researchers, educators, and technical experts with interests in R&D and application of drone technology in the areas of:
On this site you can discover more about Omnidrome’s research and infrastructure , and opportunities for participating in training, joining our network of business and industry partnerships , and developing academic research opportunities.
To download the Omnidrome leaflet please click here (PDF format)
Royal Holloway, University of London, hosted an Omnidrome Network Event on 23 July 2024, bringing together Knowledge Exchange Professionals and Industry Brokers to encourage collaboration in drone technology.
Professor Jürgen Adam, Director of Omnidrome, said:
"We received very positive feedback from our guests representing a wide range of academic research managers, industry brokers and representatives of national business organisation with shared interest in drone technology and robotics.
“Our Network Event brought together a diverse audience that rarely interact in their R&D development activities.
For Omnidrome, this event was an outstanding opportunity to build relationships with research managers and knowledge brokers, opening the potential for the development of future strategic research collaborations in the area of drones and robotics.”

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/Departments-and-schools/Physics/Research/Facilities/London-Low-Temperature-Laboratory:
London Low Temperature Laboratory
Welcome to the London Low Temperature Laboratory!
London Low Temperature Laboratory homepage is accessible here .
The infrastructure of the London Low Temperature Laboratory (LLTL) supports research on Quantum Science and Technology into the microkelvin regime.
It is a founder member and access-giving site of the European Microkelvin Platform (EMP), which is funded as a European Advanced Infrastructure.
The facilities of LLTL include four microkelvin platforms, with distinctive sample environments, as well as six dilution refrigerators and is supported by a helium liquefier.
Laboratory space is in excess of 500 m 2 , of which 180 m 2 is double height.
The Low Temperature Laboratory at RHUL was founded in 1986 as part of a reorganisation of the University of London Initially with a purpose-built laboratory space of 130 m 2 , and the facilities have expanded over the years with a diversification of its activities.
Its main research objectives are currently:
EMP is a consortium of 17 partners, including 8 access partners, 3 technology partners and 6 industrial partners.
Mission of EMP is to drive forward the quantum materials, nanoscience, and quantum technology, by research at ultralow temperatures.
LLTL is active in the priority joint research projects of the EMP.
LLTL has four microkelvin platforms with high-performance, large access and rapid turn around.
Our microkelvin platforms are Oxford instruments dilution refrigerators, with copper or PrNi 5 nuclear adiabatic demagnetisation stages for measurements down to 100 µK under homogeneous magnetic field up to 9T.
All our platforms are equipped with state-of-the-art SQUID based amplifiers.
Our measurement capabilities are constantly developing, and currently include NMR, electrical and thermal transport, heat capacity, microwave circuits and nanomechanical motion measurements.
We are heavily involved in the study of quantum fluids and solids at ultra-low temperature and have developed a broad range of techniques for these systems including pioneering work in the development of nanofluidic confinement and growing of low dimensional quantum materials.
LLTL also has several additional traditional and cryogen-free dilution refrigerators, and is supported by a TCF20 Linde helium liquefier, mechanical and electrical workshops.
The London Low Temperature Laboratory is part of the European Microkelvin Platform (EMP), funded as a European Advanced Infrastructure by Horizon 2020.
Transnational access is funded, please see https://emplatform.eu/user/general_info .
All potential users, industrial or academic, are encouraged to contact LLTL in advance.
Our mission is to drive forward the quantum materials, nanoscience, and quantum technology, by research at ultralow temperatures.
PhD students working on one of our nuclear demagnetization cryostat.
Professor of Low Temperature Physics
Profile | +44 (0) 1784 443486

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/research/research-environment/research-institutes-and-centres/costar-national-lab:
Funded as part of the £75.6m CoSTAR Network Investment from the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Infrastructure Fund and delivered by the UKRI Arts & Humanities Research Council, it is the UK’s first national lab for Creative Industries R&D.
The Lab brings together cutting-edge infrastructure with world-leading multi-disciplinary research teams to speed up the use of new and innovative technologies in the UK's film, TV, and performance industries.
The CoSTAR Stage at Pinewood Studios will offer creative companies unparalleled opportunities to explore, exploit and innovate in technologies and content.
This includes digital humans, virtual environments, multi-sensory perception and worldbuilding, underpinned by the world-class R&D of its academic and industry partners Royal Holloway, National Film and Television School (NFTS) , Abertay University , University of Surrey , BT and Disguise .
Led by the award-winning StoryFutures team at Royal Holloway, University of London , the CoSTAR National Lab will be underpinned by its rich heritage in storytelling and a partnership that builds exciting new synergies between creative ideas and emerging technology; from deep AI and machine learning research at University of Surrey and games engine expertise at Abertay University, to industry-leading training at the NFTS and leading technology partners Disguise and BT.
By partnering and collaborating with industry institutions such as the BBC and British Film Industry, StoryFutures brought innovative ways of storytelling to new audiences around the country using a variety of formats including virtual, augmented, and mixed reality, as well as virtual production.
The CoSTAR National Lab will not only benefit from being able to scale up their creative partnerships but will also be using the studio space to support smaller creative enterprises with accessible opportunities to experiment in a de-risked environment.
Businesses will be invited to apply for a share of £7m dedicated funding support through Access Programmes to develop their ideas in a dynamic environment that not only deepens and strengthens the UK creative technology ecosystem, but also promotes inclusive, sustainable and ethical innovation and business growth.
Professor James Bennett, Director of CoSTAR National Lab and Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor, Creative Industries at Royal Holloway, University of London said: “This is an amazing opportunity to unite our world-class research expertise in innovation technologies with Pinewood’s incredible history as the home of British film production.
“In keeping with Pinewood’s history, we believe that the National Lab will foster innovation by enabling world-class creatives to tell great stories with new technologies.
This is a space for technology and storytelling to come together.
“By providing R&D support and a unique space for experimenting and taking risks, we can drive new ideas from playful sparks to outcomes that compete on a global stage.
“CoSTAR at Pinewood will create a launchpad for a whole new world of audience experience.”
Read about the CoSTAR Network

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/technicians/technician-commitment:
Technician commitment
As a University, we are one of the founding signatories of the Technician Commitment - a university and research institution initiative, led by a steering group of sector bodies, with support from the Science Council and the Gatsby Charitable Foundation’s “Technicians Make It Happen” campaign.
The Commitment aims to improve the visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for all technicians working in higher education and research, across all disciplines.
Universities and research institutions were invited to become signatories of the Technician Commitment and pledge action against the key challenges affecting their technical staff.
The Technical Managers Working Group leads on the formulation and the implementation of the action plan.
The group comprises of Technical Managers, Human Resources colleagues and Provost & Pro-Vice Chancellor (Global) Tracy Bhamra.
This group has played a key role in developing our action plan to meet the standards of the Technician Commitment.
For further information regarding the Technician Commitment, please visit the Technician Commitment website and the Science Council .
Members of the Technical Managers Working Group
A report on the progress made on the 2018/21 action plan can be found below:
Technician Commitment self assessment
Appendix A: action plan 2019-20 progress report
Appendix B: action plan 2021-23
The 2021-23 action plan focuses on four key areas:
Our Technician Commitment Action Plan for 2021-23 focuses on four key areas:
Our Technician Commitment Action Plan for 2024-2026 focuses on

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/technicians/news-and-events:
News and events
Ińaki Valcarcel, Geochemistry Technician in the Department of Geography, has won the Professional Services Staff Member of the Year Award
Marta Perez-Fernandez receives ITSS funding for skills training placement
Technician Commitment update
Technician Commitment Stage 3 impact award
Summer team challenge
Technician showcase

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/technicians/case-studies:
Case studies
Department of Electronic Engineering
I left school at the age of 16 and joined the Bentalls Department Store training scheme.
I quickly realised it was not what I wanted.
I went on to work as a telephonist for Givenchy, a designer for a small packaging company and in a small art studio.
These jobs provided nowhere for me to go so I took temporary reception /offi­ce work.
A post then came up in a lab at Decca Radar that would take me into the area I had an interest in.
At Decca I started in the R & D Thin Film microwave labs and was quickly promoted to leading hand.
I went on to set up their full production facility in newly opened labs.
I started to further my education completing my City & Guilds Laboratory Technician certification.
I moved to BP Research who supported me in obtaining ‘A’ levels in Chemistry and Geology.
I continued to work as a technician at BP for 6 years specialising in nano fossil extraction, scanning electron microscopy, x-ray diffraction and photography and development.
After leaving to have my son I set up my own technical services company and continued to produce nano fossil preparations from my kitchen.
My son learnt very early on not to eat mud out of strange white bags or crawl around core boxes that seemed a permanent fixture in my house.
I worked evenings and did piece work soldering connectors for the aero industry.
8 years on I ended up volunteering at my son’s school.
I went from helping with reading to taking art classes and doing basic science with the upper school.
I really enjoyed the work and it finally dawned on me that I could be being paid for it.
I took on a post at a local school as a technician in the junior science labs.
I gradually took on more responsibility - I set up a brand new data logging lab, covered Design Technology classes and got involved with the after school photography club.
One afternoon the Head called me to his o­ffice to ask if I could cover Yr 9 Biology and 48 hours later I was teaching it.
I ended up teaching Yr 7 Junior Science, Yr 8 Physics and Chemistry.
Eventually the paperwork and marking got to me so I found a post in administration at RHUL.
Since moving to RHUL 19 years ago I have taken a wide range of posts from Department Manager in Economics, Head of Student Accommodation, Faculty Admin Manager, to Administrative Support Manager for Registry.
Most recently I led the administrative and technical set up of the new Department of Electronic Engineering.
I am now the Technical Operations Manager and have come back to where my technical career started out in Electronic Engineering.
Department of Geography
I always knew that I wanted to be an archaeologist.
When I was a child I was always collecting stones and looking for artefacts around my grandparents’ farm in Spain.
When I started school I realised that I loved history and mythology but that I loved the sciences too.
I couldn’t choose between the sciences and humanities so quite unusually studied Chemistry, Physics, History and Art.
Whilst deciding what to study at university I discovered I could study environmental archaeology in the UK so I packed my suitcase with 20 kilos and I came here to start my BSc in Archaeology.
After my degree I worked as an Environmental Archaeologist with various commercial archaeological companies, travelling all around the UK.
Whilst working I started a part-time MSc in Geoarchaeology which o­ffered a combination of field and lab work and I knew that I had found what I wanted.
I was then very fortunate to be off­ered a PhD that combined field archaeology and laboratory work at Plymouth University.
It was my first experience in a Geography Department and where I first realised that a lab technician role provided everything I enjoyed: lab work, field work, research and working directly with students.
During my summers I volunteered as an archaeologist around the world with field summer schools.
I went to Ecuador, Crete and Spain, where I was teaching students and digging at the same time.
When I finished my PhD I returned to environmental archaeology as a consultant but when the opportunity to work in the Geography Department at RHUL as a Palaeoecology Technician appeared there was no doubt that I was going to apply.
I have been at RHUL for 4 years now.
I really like the Department of Geography and my role as Lab Technician.
I am able to contribute to some of the research projects being led by the academic and research staff­, and get involved in a variety of field trips.
My favourite thing about being a technician however is working with the students and helping them develop their own laboratory skills.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-history/our-story:
Our story
At Royal Holloway, you will join an inspiring community of gamechangers.
One that has been brought to life over decades by our outstanding students, incredible colleagues, world-class academics, global partners, royal connections , and our beloved mascot Colossus .
We’re excited about the future and passionate about making a difference in the world.
As a thriving community, driven by our rich history, we’ve got many more stories still to tell.
Come and explore the things that matter to you and be a part of the story as it unfolds.
Discover Royal Holloway on the screen , learn more about our fascinating history , get to know Colossus, or be inspired by our honorary graduates and fellows .
Royal Holloway’s stunning grounds have proved to be a popular filming location in the production of a range of TV shows and films.
As our name suggests, we’ve had royal support since our earliest days – and so it continues.
Colossus – a full-size stuffed grizzly bear, sculpture and mascot.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news:
News
Annual Postgraduate Research Experience Survey results show strong satisfaction and top-quartile scores for overall satisfaction across the University’s postgraduate researcher community.
Tracie D Hall has been awarded an Honorary Degree for her lifelong commitment to the right to read and advocating worldwide access to libraries and cultural services.
Dr Shirlene Oh has been awarded an Honorary Degree in recognition of her transformative role in healthcare.
Solomon Rogers has been awarded an Honorary Degree for his contributions to the immersive and emerging technology industry.
Professor Julie Brown FBA, Professor Emerita of Music at Royal Holloway, has been awarded a British Academy Fellowship.
The University’s ‘Royal Holloway Egham Living Campus’ has received the prestigious Green Flag Award after achieving international quality mark for parks and green spaces.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/how-to-find-us/parking-on-campus:
Parking on campus
We have different student permits available dependent on where you live, and if you're a colleague you'll need a registered permit to park on campus.
Visitors and contractors need to register their vehicles online before arriving on campus (no later than 24 hours prior to arrival).
Apply for a parking permit or update/amend your details
Download our traffic and car parking policy here .
We have different student permits available dependent on where you live - please note that if you live in Halls, you will not be eligible to apply for any student parking permits.
More information on our student parking can be found on the Royal Holloway Student Intranet.
Student parking information
The university prides itself on welcoming visitors to our campus.
However, due to limited parking spaces, it is vital for the safety and convenience of everyone, to control all vehicle movements and park in a sensible manner.
Visitors who need to park on campus will need to be registered by their university host.
Your host will need your vehicle registration number and the amount of time you're likely to spend on campus.
If you are a host who would like to register a visitor please use our visitor and contractor vehicle registration system .
If you are visiting to attend a university event, such as public lectures, concerts, open days, visit days, conferences etc.
the event will be advertised with specific parking instructions informing you where to park and that there is no need to register your vehicle.
Please clarify with your host.
Automatic permit enforcement during all public events will not operate in car parks  4, 12, 13, 14 and 14A.
Yes, automatic permit enforcement will not apply for quick deliveries, dropping off or picking up activities.
The university’s Traffic and Car Parking Policy will be enforced for the following:
Visitors to residential students, such as parents or friends outside the university, who wish to park can be registered by a resident student at any of the Hall receptions (Founder’s, Hub, Highfield and Kingswood Halls) or after 10pm via the Security Control Centre in Founder’s East.
If you haven’t found the information you need in our FAQs and would like some help please email the Parking Admin team .
Guests staying at The Hub accommodation must register their vehicle via The Hub Reception Desk.
Due to limited parking spaces, it is vital for the safety and convenience of everyone, to control all vehicle movements and park in a sensible manner.
Contactors requiring to undertake work on campus will need to be registered by their university host (the area or person who has contracted you to provide services).
Your host will need your vehicle registration number, date  and the amount of time you're likely to spend on campus.
If you are a university host who would like to register a contractor, please use our visitor and contractor vehicle registration system .
If you are working for an independent contractor on university property the contract company will notify you of any specific parking instructions informing you where to park.
Your host is responsible for registering your vehicle and the contractor is responsible to ensure that they are registered.
Yes, automatic permit enforcement will not apply for quick deliveries, dropping off or picking up activities.The College’s Traffic and Car Parking Policy will be enforced for the following:
University members using the Sports Centre car park must display a valid parking permit.
Visitors to the Sports Centre not in possession of a parking permit may park for up to two hours, after which they should register their car for an extension at the Sports Centre reception.
Parents who have children attending the on-site nursery can drop off and pick up their children on North Campus.
Automatic permit enforcement will not apply for dropping off or picking up activities.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/geography/research:
World-class research
The Department of Geography is a hub for world-class research, knowledge exchange and public engagement.
Our research environment is supported by a research group culture, which enables our staff and students to be emerging and established research leaders and partners of choice for international organizations, governments and civil society including charities, learned societies, museums, and galleries.
The three research groups are: Centre for Quaternary Research (CQR), Geopolitics, Development, Security and Justice (GDSJ) and Social, Cultural and Historical Geography (SCHG).
The Department is also home to the acclaimed Centre for Geohumanities , a major initiative linking arts and humanities scholars and practitioners, geographers and the creative, cultural and heritage sectors.
The Department’s research activity is a mixture of individual grants, collaborative funded partnerships, consultancies, and via participation in consortia.
In recent times, we have enjoyed substantial success including European Research Council consolidator award, repeated UKRI COVID-19 related funding, charities funding from the British Academy and Leverhulme Trust alongside partnership funding via the Centre for Wildfires (hosted by Imperial College) and the Homo Sapiens Centre (hosted by the University of Bergen).
The beneficiaries of our research are multiple and reflect the professional services our staff undertake.
Our staff serve on advisory panels for governments and public institutions, work closely with industry and non-governmental organizations, and provide expert advice for the UK Parliament, environmental agencies, heritage organizations and international bodies such as UN Habitat.
Academic staff, research staff, visiting staff and our postgraduate students regularly share their research findings with audiences within and beyond the academy.
We are committed to open access research and writing for, working with and presenting to diverse audiences.
We maintain an active social media presence and contribute to accessible media such as The Conversation and our project blogs such as Mobile Museum .
Find out more about our staff and research students, including publications and projects.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/past-events:
Past events
Every year Royal Holloway holds a number of public events, lectures and seminars; you can watch recordings of some of our past lectures here.
For a range of talks and lectures delivered as part of the Art Collections public programme visit our digital museum pages .
Magna Carta Lecture 2025 The Rt Hon The Baroness Prentis of Banbury KC
The ‘rule of law’ has long been a fundamental principal of good government, a tradition in England which largely stems from the Magna Carta in 1215.
In an era of volatility, in which shifting societal and geopolitical norms and rapid technological advancement seem to challenge the long-accepted values of democratic societies, politicians and critics from all sides frequently appeal to the ‘rule of law’ as justification for their views and actions.
In the Magna Carta Lecture, former Attorney General for England and Wales, Baroness Prentis, explores why adherence to the ‘rule of law’ still matters when the goalposts feel like they are shifting, and how we can grasp this nebulous concept to ensure that democratic societies emerge stronger from a turbulent period.
Inaugural Lecture Professor Jessie Ricketts, School of Life Science and the Environment
Reading gives us access to information, to learning, to people and worlds that are outside of our lived experience.
This is important for all of us and yet, research has focused almost exclusively on childhood and adulthood, ignoring the intervening teenage period.
Discussions with secondary teachers motivated more than a decade of research that tracks how reading proficiency and engagement as young people move through adolescence.
We have worked closely with teachers, charities and other partners to develop this research and understand what it means for teenagers, schools and educational policy.
Professor Ricketts outlines this research, and explores the importance of collaboration to understanding why teenage reading is important and what we can do to promote it.
Inaugural Lecture Professor Michael Evangeli, School of Live Sciences and the Environment
Sharing an HIV-positive status (HIV disclosure) can improve health and increase support from others.
But telling others about living with HIV is fraught with anxiety, with fears of rejection and discrimination common.
This is a rational response as countering HIV stigma has been the most difficult challenge facing the HIV field since the virus was discovered over 40 years ago.
From working with people living with HIV as a clinical psychologist in the late 1990s, to recent research developing interventions to support young people living with HIV in the UK and Uganda, Professor Evangeli’s work has focused on supporting people with HIV to make decisions about whether, how and when to share their HIV status.
Inaugural Lecture Professor Magnus Wahlström, School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Sciences
For well over 60 years, computer scientists have grappled with the question of the limits of computing for efficient problem solving.
By now, although little has been proven mathematically, there is a broad consensus that for a large class of highly relevant tasks (such as scheduling problems, business optimisation problems, verification of digital circuits, and more), there probably is no efficient universal method.
However, this clashes dramatically with an everyday industrial experience where such problems are regularly solved at scale.
Professor Wahlstrom reviews this apparent contradiction, known broadly as the P-vs-NP question,  and discuss attempts towards its resolution.
Inaugural Lecture Professor Hugh Shananhan, School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Sciences
This lecture outlines the huge importance of Research Infrastructures (RIs).
RIs are the necessary physical, digital and human infrastructures required to carry out research.
RIs form the connective tissue of research.
Because of the digital transformation over the last thirty years RIs have enabled researchers to tackle increasingly difficult challenges that often require input from a number of different disciplines.
Digital objects, such as Research Software, Research Data and standards are key to many areas of research.
RIs are socio-technical in their nature.
Despite the physical nature of them they are a deeply human enterprise and require the contribution of highly specialised individuals.
They can be enablers of Open Research and are a bulwark against the challenges encountered with respect to reproducibility and replicability and can play a role in maintaining Research Integrity.
They are also fragile - they depend on sustained funding which are delivered through a variety of different models.
As a result they are easily disrupted and require continual care.
In his inaugural lecture, Professor Hugh Shanahan argues that RIs are part of a broader picture where research is, for the most part, collaborative with many varied and essential contributions from individuals providing Research Objects that don't necessarily fit into the standard publication model and can be reused.
For What Matters Lecture Professor Nick Hardwick CBE, Emeritus Professor of Criminal Justice
2025 is the twentieth anniversary of the '7/7' London suicide bombings which killed 52 innocent people and the fatal shooting two weeks later of Jean Charles de Menezes by the Metropolitan Police, in the mistaken belief that he was a terrorist.
There have already been two recent TV documentaries to mark the anniversary and more are scheduled.
Professor Nick Hardwick, who was responsible for the Independent Police Complaints Commission's investigation into the shooting of Jean Charles, will use his personal experience of this example and his work in other controversial parts of the criminal justice system to reflect on how we respond to some of the most painful and controversial tragedies when the state seems to have failed in its obligations to keep us safe.
I naugural Lecture Professor Anica Zeyen, School of Business and Management Professor Anica Zeyen's inaugural lecture blends her lived experience as a blind academic and her research on disability inclusion.
She will explore the systemic discrimination faced by disabled individuals in various sectors and emphasise the importance of disability pride, making a compelling case that disability is everyone's business.
For What Matters Lecture The Rt Hon The Lord Woolley of Woodford
Operation Black Vote was founded in 1996 to leverage the power of the ‘Black vote’ in order to tackle racism and increase the number of Black and minority ethnic people in elected and prominent public roles.
This was at a time when there were only seven MPs from ethnic minorities and British politics was seemingly deaf to the concerns of minority communities.
Now, almost 30 years on, the success of OBV, and partner organisations, can be seen across the political system.
The percentage of ethnic minority MPs in the House of Commons more closely matches the population, and the UK has seen people from ethnic minorities occupy all four of the Great Offices of State.
In this For What Matters Lecture, Lord Woolley shares his thoughts on where he, and OBV, have progressed to now and what challenges our society faces in political engagement.
He speaks about the importance of political education for young people and what educators might learn from the success of Operation Black Vote in mobilising groups with low levels of political involvement.
I naugural Lecture Professor Marco Cinnirella, Department of Psychology
Marco describes his journey from a research-focused social psychologist exploring issues around national identity, prejudice and discrimination to a professional practice career path that reflects the application of social psychology to facilitate behaviour change in health and business settings.
The stages of his career are outlined along with anecdotes about how his career was punctuated with death threats, conspiracy theories about him, and opportunities to engage with government and the UN.
Magna Carta Lecture 2024 Professor Nigel Saul, Emeritus Professor of Medieval History
Ranging widely over the centuries, the lecture will trace how the eighteenth-and nineteenth-century emphasis on the Charter as the foundation of the rule of law gave way in the twentieth to an emphasis instead on human rights: a consequence both of the internationalisation of the Charter and the increasing brutality of twentieth-century warfare.
The lecture will be of interest to those with an interest in history, politics and law.
Holocaust Memorial Lectures Dame Stephanie 'Steve' Shirley CH, DSci Honoris Causa
Speaker Dame Stephanie Shirley CH, also known as Steve, arrived in Britain in 1939 as an unaccompanied five-year-old Kindertransport refugee.
Now at 90 years old, her story has many strands which, woven together, have produced a lifetime of exceptional achievements.
‘And Then What?
Inside Stories of 21st-Century Diplomacy’ Baroness Diana Warwick in conversation with Baroness Catherine Ashton
In the 2023 Magna Carta lecture, Catherine Ashton, former EU High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Honorary Fellow of Royal Holloway spoke to fellow Bedford College alumna Diana Warwick about her experiences as a foreign representative, representing the many nations of the EU, discussing how “quiet diplomacy” was her essential tool in dealing with the most challenging of negotiations.
Please note: only the audio of this lecture was recorded.
‘Brexit and the UK’s future relationship with the European Union’ The Rt Hon John Bercow
In the first Jean Monnet Lecture, The Rt Hon John Bercow, former Speaker of the House of Commons, considers Brexit and the UK’s past and future relationship with the European Union, giving the unique insight of someone who was at the heart of the parliamentary process.
The Jean Monnet Lectures are public events organised by Dr Giacomo Benedetto, Jean Monnet Chair at Royal Holloway, University of London, as part of a three-year project co-funded by the European Union.
David Cesarani Holocaust Memorial Lecture 2023 Professor Amos Goldberg - Hebrew University, Jerusalem
From early 1941 until July 1942 when the big deportation to Treblinnka began, a very popular street jester called Rubinstein performed in the streets of the Warsaw ghetto.
He was known and loved by all.
Some described him as a fool whose reason was lost while others referred to him as the Ghetto's prophet and philosopher.
Professor Goldberg analyses some of his performances and puns, emphasizing his special role as a radical social commentator of the Warsaw ghetto crumbling society.
David Cesarani Holocaust Memorial Lecture 2022 James Bulgin, Head of Content for the new Holocaust Galleries, Imperial War Museums
James started work on the project in 2016.
Before joining IWM James worked as a commercial theatre producer, writer and director, with work in the West End and on national tour.
He is currently completing a PhD under the Crosslands Research Scholarship at Royal Holloway, on ideas of apocalypse in Holocaust and Cold War history.
His academic research focuses on issues of representation in Holocaust literature and film and he has spoken at conferences in the UK, Israel and Germany.
Magna Carta Lecture 2021 The Right Honourable The Baroness Hale of Richmond
At a time of heightened political tension surrounding the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, presided over by Baroness Hale of Richmond, ruled that the government’s prorogation of Parliament was unlawful – a decision that has been described as reaffirming parliamentary sovereignty and having major implications for our system of government.
In the Magna Carta Lecture 2021, almost two years on from the event, Lady Hale reflects on the events and ruling of 2019.
The Magna Carta Lecture series is made possible by the generosity of The Magna Carta Trust and Runnymede Magna Carta Legacy.
Centre for the Study of Modern Monarchy panel discussion, chaired by Anna Whitelock, Professor of the History of Monarchy
Panellists:
Department of Biological Sciences Jack Pridham Lecture 2020 Dr Elizabeth Whittaker, Senior Clinical Lecturer in paediatric infectious diseases and immunology at Imperial College London
Reassuringly children usually experience mild or limited symptoms when infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19 disease.
However the pandemic has impacted greatly on child health in other ways, nationally and internationally, including affecting education, vaccine delivery, mental health and emotional and social wellbeing.
It is crucial that as the pandemic continues these areas are addressed to prevent a long term effect on this generation.
The art collections hold many items relating to the history of Bedford College, one of the two institutions which now make up Royal Holloway, University of London.
At this event, Dr Laura MacCulloch, the Curator at the university, looks at some of the most treasured objects from Bedford and explores the stories behind them.
In her inaugural lecture, Professor Laura Sjoberg from the Department of Politics and International Relations, explores the co-constitution of the state and sex in global politics, arguing that the generation state borders and the people who inhabit them – indeed the state itself - cannot be fully understood without reference to sex acts and sexual relationships.
Building on feminist and queer theorizing and using examples from dynastic marriage treaties to contemporary refugee law, the talk shows how international relations are sexual and sexual relations are international relations.
For upcoming events visit our Events listing page .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/events/heritage-open-day-2025:
Heritage Open Day 2025
Royal Holloway, University of London, welcomes you to explore our spectacular Grade I listed Founder's Building, Picture Gallery, Chapel and extensive grounds.
The Founder's Building at Royal Holloway was home to one of the first higher education colleges for women and was opened by Queen Victoria in 1886.
Modelled on the Château de Chambord, it is one of the most impressive university buildings in the world.
Experts from the University and guest speakers will give short talks on the University's history.
All talks and tours are free, and there will be fun activities for children and adults!
Come along to see our campus and discover the fascinating history of an exceptionally radical university.
Events Officer
Marketing & Communications

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/events/pulsars-nature-s-best-clocks:
Pulsars: Nature’s best clocks
Professor Ben Stappers University of Manchester
Discovered in 1967, pulsars are ultra-compact stars, Sun-sized masses packed into a radius of 10 km, spinning up to 700 times/sec and emitting radio beams, making them nature’s most precise clocks.
Professor Stappers will explain how they test Einstein’s gravity, reveal gravitational waves from supermassive black holes, share results from South Africa’s MeerKAT and preview the Square Kilometre Array.
Admission is free but booking is essential.
Teaching Technician

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/events/the-council-of-nicaea-and-its-legacy-325-2025:
The Council of Nicaea and its legacy (325-2025)
Revd Richard Price Professor Emeritus of the History of Christianity, Heythrop College, University of London
The Council of Nicaea of AD 325, whose seventeenth centenary we are celebrating this year is strangely familiar and yet unfamiliar.
The famous creed it produced is recited week after week in innumerable Christian churches.
Yet both its history and its theology are only dimly appreciated by most Christians, for whom the council inaugurated what became a union of church and state unimaginable today, while the conciliar definition of the full divinity of Jesus Christ receives today from most Christians only a formal recognition, while devotion is centred on Christ’s humanity.
This centenary should be a stimulus to a reawakening of historical memory and a fuller knowledge of the very heart of the Christian faith.
Admission is free, but booking is essential.
For further information and to book ch.dendrinos@oyalholloway.ac.uk
+44 (0)1784 443950
Senior Lecturer in Byzantine Literature and Greek Palaeography
Director of the Hellenic Institute
Profile | +44 1784 443791

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/events/ai-in-practice-skills-security-and-shifting-realities:
AI in practice: skills, security, and shifting realities
Sian John MBE This lecture explores the real-world implications of AI—beyond the hype and into the grounded realities of how it's reshaping our work, education, and societal expectations.
Professor Fred Piper founded our Information Security Group, and his work has shaped our thinking about how protect and manage information.
Fred played an instrumental role in making information security both publicly accessible and a fully-fledged academic subject.
Sian John MBE
Professor of Information Security
Head of Department

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/the-library/the-exhibition-space-at-the-emily-wilding-davison-building:
The Exhibition Space
The Exhibition Space at Royal Holloway is a contemporary gallery space displaying art, research and contemporary practice from within Royal Holloway and beyond.
The Exhibition Space has hosted a variety of displays ranging from social history, immersive digital installations and fine art exhibitions.
Find out more about our current and past exhibitions below, and how to access culture on campus.
Find out more about our current exhibition.
Discover 360 tours of our past exhibitions
Explore our online exhibitions
Find out more about our College art collections and Picture Gallery.
Find out more about our College archives and special collections.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/the-library/external-users:
External users
Reference access to the Library is offered free of charge to anyone with a need to use an academic library.
Open hours for external users are 9am - 9pm Monday - Sunday.
There may be periods when the library is closed to external users and non-members (e.g.
during student assessment periods).
The Library Helpdesk is open 10am - 6pm Monday - Friday, 12pm - 6pm Saturday - Sunday.
All external users are required to follow Library Regulations .
If you are coming to the Library by car, please ensure that you register your car with a member of staff at the library helpdesk upon arrival.
You can also register via email up to 24 hours before your arrival.
Please email library@rhul.ac.uk with your car's make, model, and colour, your licence plate number, your full name, and your intended arrival and departure times.
Please note that printing and computer facilities, including access to electronic resources, are not available to external users.
Power sockets for your own equipment, guest Wi-Fi and eduroam are available.
You can browse our collection on LibrarySearch .
Memberships are available as below for borrowing from our print collection.
Royal Holloway/University of London alumni are eligible to join Senate House Library which includes access to a range of e-resources.
For more information please contact library@rhul.ac.uk
Memberships are available for 4 months (£20) or 12 months (£55).
Royal Holloway alumni are entitled to external membership free of charge (renewable after 3 years).
Proof of study at Royal Holloway will be required.
SCONUL
Students and staff from participating institutions may apply for the SCONUL Access Scheme to use Royal Holloway University Library.
You will need to apply for SCONUL membership through your home institution on the SCONUL website before applying at Royal Holloway.
Band A, B and C users are entitled to borrowing access.
Band R users are entitled to reference-only membership.
University of London Libraries Access Agreement
Students at University of London institutions that are not eligible for SCONUL Access may apply for reference-only membership of Royal Holloway Library through the University of London Libraries Access Agreement .
Access25
Postgraduate Research students and staff at participating M25 Consortium libraries which are not part of the SCONUL Access Scheme can join the library (with borrowing access) via the Access25 Scheme .
You will need to apply for Access25 membership through your home institution before applying at Royal Holloway.
CABI (Centre for Agriculture and Bioscience International) staff are entitled to external membership free of charge (renewable after 3 years).
Proof of employment will be required.
Please complete this form to renew your external membership.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/the-library/our-archives/copying-documents:
Copying documents
You can copy much of the material in our archives and special collections.
However, in some cases, documents are too fragile to copy.
Call us on +44 (0)1784 443814 Email us at archives@rhul.ac.uk
Write to us at: College Archives and Special Collections Davison Building Royal Holloway, University of London Egham Surrey TW20 0EX

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/the-library/our-archives:
Archives and Special Collections
Our archives contain some of the earliest records relating to the history of higher education for women.
We hold institutional records of Bedford and Royal Holloway Colleges from the 19 th century to the present day.
We also have personal papers of prominent individuals with links to the Colleges as well as special collections, many of which relate to theatre history.
A full list of our collections is available here or you can search the catalogue .
Our rare book collections are searchable via the library catalogue .
The Archives and Special Collections at Royal Holloway, University of London, has reopened .
Access is by appointment
Individual appointments are available on Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10am to 4pm.
(Please note the archive reading room will close for lunch at 12.30pm and reopen at 1.30pm).
If you wish to book an individual appointment, please email archives@rhul.ac.uk
Requests for individual appointments should be made one week in advance however we endeavor to accommodate visits at shorter notice where possible.
Group visits are also available, please read our Guidelines for Group Visits before emailing archives@rhul.ac.uk for availability and for more information.
See the learning resources available to you
Scholars and benefactors have given the College many amazing books
Discover our digital collections
Explore our archives and make an appointment to use our reading room
Past teaching sessions and how to book
Current and past research projects using the archives
Answers to the questions we are most commonly asked about our archives and special collections.
Find out how to make copies of material in our archives and special collections
Find out more about our archive policies

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-history/our-founders:
Our founders
Royal Holloway is proud to be founded by Victorian pioneers who wanted to make a positive impact on society.
Our founders understood the transformative power of education and wanted to make these benefits available to all, including women, who were excluded from attending university at the time.
The following founders championed inclusivity and academic excellence, these principles still underpin everything we do today.
Elizabeth Jesser Reid, née Sturch, was a pioneering social reformer.
Born in London in 1789, in 1821 she married the physician John Reid who died just 13 months later.
She devoted her life to supporting many benevolent schemes set up by women, as well as anti-slavery campaigns in America.
Founding a higher education college for women had been a childhood dream, and in 1849 she put up the money to found Bedford College.
It was the first women’s higher education college in Britain.
The first students included Sarah Parker Remond, the first black woman to undertake a round Britain lecture tour about the slavery question, the artist Barbara Bodichon and novelist George Eliot.
Thomas Holloway was a Victorian entrepreneur who became a millionaire through marketing pills and ointments globally.
His early marketing strategy initially involved sending his brother into pharmacies to ask for Holloway’s products, and visiting the next day to supply them.
Unfortunately, his ambition to grow the business with the first global advertising campaign in 1839 proved too expensive and Thomas served time in a debtors’ prison – but advertising eventually became a cornerstone of the business, with spend totalling £40,000 in 1863.
In 1849 Thomas married Jane Pearce Driver, and together they planned how to invest some of the business’s profits for the greater good.
Their first venture was to build a sanatorium in east London to support people with mental health problems.
While that was still being built, Jane persuaded Thomas to realise a grand vision – a college to educate women.
This was controversial, but it made a strong statement to the world, both conceptually and architecturally.
Sadly both Jane and Thomas died before it was completed, but Jane’s brother George Martin oversaw the build and welcomed Queen Victoria to the opening in 1886.
Although Thomas Holloway had not originally envisaged an art gallery in his college, he was inspired to start buying paintings to form a collection for his students in 1881.
It is likely that this was the first collection gathered in Britain specifically for female viewers, and his approach to creating it was extraordinary in many ways.
The collection certainly impressed Queen Victoria.
On the day she came to open the College she wrote in her diary that ‘Royal Holloway had fine specimens of modern art ’.
The collections now represent over 200 years of art .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-history/our-story/royal-connections:
Royal connections
Queen Victoria opened the Founders’ Building in 1886, giving us use of the title ‘Royal’ in our name, and royal visitors and patrons play a role to this day.
In 1904 Her Majesty Queen Alexandra, wife of King Edward VII, became the first Royal Patron of Bedford College, which was awarded Royal Assent in 1909.
There have been a number of royal alumni too – for example the Duchess of Kent, King George V’s daughter-in-law, was awarded international nursing certificates at Bedford College in 1935.
And her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, The Queen Mother, was awarded an Honorary Degree from the University of London (DLit) in 1937.
In 1986 HM Queen Elizabeth II visited our Egham campus to open the new Earth Sciences building (Queen’s Building), marking Royal Holloway’s centenary, and in 2014 returned with Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh to celebrate the Diamond Jubilee Regius Professorship of Music.
Musicians performed in the Chapel, before the Royal couple met students and staff in the Picture Gallery.
In 2017, Her Royal Highness The Princess Royal officially opened the latest addition to our campus, the Emily Wilding Davison Building in 2017.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-history/our-story/our-milestones:
Our milestones
Building on our rich history, we’re making strides to ensure an outstanding and inclusive learning and teaching environment for our students, colleagues, partners and global community.
Over the last few decades, we’ ve made some important developments t o improve the way we deliver a world-class education and student experience while enhancing our positi ve impact on society.
Royal Holloway undergoes a major campus redevelopment between 2002-2008 with an investment of £100 million to deliver new facilities for teaching and student living, including the Windsor Building, modern halls of residence and innovative spaces to eat and meet such as Imagine and The Hub.
In 2003, Community Action Volunteering, now Royal Holloway Volunteering, is form ed to help students contribute to the local community and beyond, while gaining transferable life skills.
In 2010 c omedian and Comic Relief founder, Sir Lenny Henry CBE , is awarded an MA in Screenwriting, and renowne d alumnae sopranos Dame Felicity Lott, Susan Bullock and Sarah Fox perform at the U niversity to mark the Silver Jubilee of Royal Holloway’s merger.
Royal Holloway hosts the Olympic Village for Rowing in 2012 , while former Mathematics graduate, Sophie Christiansen OBE , becomes triple gold medalist at the London Paralympic Games .
As a mark of her achievements, a golden post box is built on campus.
In the same year, our particle physicists contributed to the groundbreaking discovery of the Higgs Boson particle.
Royal Holloway’s Music d epartment i s awarded a Regius Professorship by Queen Elizabeth II to mark her Diamond Jubilee – one of only two in the last century.
On 14 March 2014, students and colleagues warmly welcomed Her Majesty The Queen and His Royal Highness The Duke of Edinburgh on campus to celebrate th e prestigious honor .
In 2015, Royal Holloway launches the Magna Carta Doctoral Centre for Individual Freedom to examine issues of personal freedom in the digital age and mark its anniversary .
A state-of-the-art building opens named after alumna and Suffragette Emily Wilding Davison in 2017.
Opened by Her Royal Highness, The Princess Royal, Chancellor of the University of London, t he striking building features a new library, student services centre, a careers and employability services area, study hubs and new events and exhibition spaces.
Royal Holloway Volunteering receives The Queen’s Award for Voluntary Service, the highest award given to volunteer groups across the UK, later that year.
In 2018 t he Beatrice Shilling Building is opened by Professor Dame Ann Dowling, President of the Royal Academy of Engineering at Royal Holloway’s Egham campus.
The landmark science building welcomes students to the university’s new Department of Electronic Engineering.
In 2022, Royal Holloway develops a world-leading research hub for air, land, and water-based drones, robotics, autonomous vehicles and a dedicated testing and training facility.
The following year, the centre is opened to global research and commercial partners with uncapped potential for social purpose-led innovation.
A new interdisciplinary Department of Health Studies is also launched to drive research and development (R&D) and innovation in public health and social wellbeing.
Building on the expertise of StoryFutures in creative R&D , applied technology and story, in 2013 Royal Holloway is chosen to support innovation in the UK’s c reative i ndustrie s to ensure it has the research infrastructure and skills to compete globally .
Meanwhile, Royal Holloway Volunteering celebrates its 20 th anniversary.
In 2024, Royal Holloway marks the 175th Anniversary of the founding of Bedford College with a series of events across its London and Surrey campuses .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/art-collections/picture-gallery:
Picture Gallery
Our stunning Grade 1 listed Picture Gallery houses the Thomas Holloway collection of Victorian paintings.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/art-collections/art-collections:
Art Collections
Welcome to Royal Holloway and Bedford New University art collections.
The University art collections are cared for by our Culture Team, who also manage the archives and the exhibitions programme.
Our stunning Grade 1 listed Picture Gallery houses the Thomas Holloway collection of Victorian paintings, and we hold temporary exhibitions in a dedicated space in the Davison Building.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/art-collections-and-archives/visit-us:
Visit Us
We welcome visitors throughout the year to our Picture Gallery and Art Collections.
Find out how you can visit us below.
Throughout the year
The Picture Gallery is regularly open to visitors on Wednesdays, 10am-3pm in terms 1 and 2 (September - March).
The Gallery is closed in term 3 due to examinations taking place in the space.
Please see below for a list of the upcoming Gallery open days:
September 2025
Wednesday 24 September - Open Day - 10am-3pm
October 2025
Wednesday 1 October - Open Day - 10am-3pm
Wednesday 8 October - Open Day - 10am-3pm
Wednesday 15 October - Open Day - 10am-3pm
Wednesday 22 October - Open Day - 10am-3pm
Wednesday 29 October - Open Day - 10am-3pm
November 2025
Wednesday 5 November - Open Day - 10am-3pm
Wednesday 12 November - Open Day - 10am-3pm
Wednesday 19 November - Open Day - 10am-3pm
December 2025
Wednesday 3 December - Open Day - 10am-3pm
Wednesday 10 December - Open Day - 10am-3pm
We welcome groups on tours of our Picture Gallery.
Whether you’re part of a special interest group or just looking for something different for your day out, group tours are a great way to explore our collections.
Tours are subject to availability of the Gallery and the art collections team.
Please note we require at least two week's notice to book group tours.
Gallery Tour only
Join us on a free 30-40 minute tour of the Picture Gallery, and hear about the history of the University and art collection.
Minimum 10 guests.
Get in touch with our art collections team to find out more.
Day visit
Join us on a tour of the Founder's building, including the Chapel, Dining Room and Reading Room.
Enjoy afternoon tea in the Picture Gallery, followed by a talk on our Victorian art collection.
Minimum 25 guests.
Prices available on request from the Events team.
Exhibitions are held in our Exhibitions Space in the Davison Building.
Find out more about our upcoming exhibitions programme here .
Appointment only
We welcome researchers to the Picture Gallery and art collection outside our open days, subject to access.
If you are an individual, a visiting scholar, or a small group, please contact the art collection team .
Please note we require at least two week's notice to book research visits.
Individual appointments to visit our archives reading room can be booked on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10am to 4pm.
The room will be closed for a lunch break from 12.30 - 1.30pm.
Group visits are also available.
Appointments should be made one week in advance, and can be booked by emailing archives@rhul.ac.uk
Please consult the College guide to Getting to Royal Holloway .
If you are visiting by car, please contact the art collections team in advance of your visit to register your car and avoid a parking fine.
Parking is available on campus.
The Picture Gallery is located in the Founder's Building.
The exhibition space is located in the Davison Building.
Click here to see a map of campus.
The Picture Gallery, exhibition space, archives and art store are all step free.
We are wheelchair accessible.
There are benches, chairs and stools available for use in each space.
Please view the building's AccessAble profile to learn more.
Information about our collections in the Picture Gallery is available on our app Smartify , which was created in consultation with with visually impaired and low vision users.
We also have print guides with information about our collections.
We have created an audio description tour of a selection of paintings in the Picture Gallery.
This is part of an ongoing project to provide audio description of all works on display.
There are accessible toilets and baby changing facilities close to the Picture Gallery, exhibition space and art store.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/art-collections/about-us:
About Us
The Cultural Services team looks after the archives, art collections, and exhibition space on our Egham campus.
Find out more about the team and how you can get involved below.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/art-collections/news-views:
News & Views
Featuring Royal Holloway’s Self Portrait Yellow Waistcoat (1993) by Desmond Haughton
How Royal Holloway’s Carthillon Cliffs (1878) inspired the National Trust to introduce new grazing patterns on the Cornish coastline –thanks to contemporary artist, Kurt Jackson
A pair of earrings made out of hair has been gifted to Royal Holloway art collections
News and Views piece by Ella-Rose Parkin
This October, RHUL archives seeks to highlight special items within our archive to celebrate Black History Month.
During our recent annual Heritage Open Day celebrations, we had the pleasure of inviting Bedford College alumnae to explore our archive collections.
A special text from the RHUL Archive and Special Collections was recently sent on loan to Chawton House to feature in the exciting new exhibition: Mary Robinson - Actress, Mistress, Writer, Radical
As part of the 175th anniversary celebrations of Bedford College, the Art Collections team have selected a portrait of a former Bedford Principal to be installed in the Executive Corridor of the Found
This year marks the 175th anniversary of Bedford College, one of the two women’s colleges that came together to form Royal Holloway University of London in 1985
The rare books collection at RHUL includes some interesting and unique items.
Occasionally our rare books require expert care and attention by a professional conservator.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/edi-framework:
Our Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Framework
Our Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Framework 2023-2028 is designed to ensure we take a methodical and coordinated approach to embedding equity, accessibility and inclusion throughout our entire University community.
The framework outlines our EDI priorities and actions we will take to ensure our University is a safe, welcoming and inclusive environment.
Six Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Guiding Principles underpin our framework, setting our foundation for conduct and culture.
Our vision is that our principles form the basis for all aspects of work and study at Royal Holloway, including what we do and what we say, and are manifested in university structures, policies and everyday processes and behaviours.
Royal Holloway EDI Guiding Principles:
We are continually working to strengthen and increase the range of support and resources to empower our community to ‘live our principles’.
View our EDI Framework 2023-2028 as a PDF
View our EDI Framework 2023-28 as a Word document

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/chartermarks-awards-and-affiliations:
Our Chartermarks, awards and affiliations
Equality Charters and external accreditation schemes provide valuable frameworks and tools for self-reflection and Equality, Diversity & Inclusion action-planning.
Ultimately, however, our commitment to tackling inequality extends far beyond awards and external recognition.
Royal Holloway is working to ensure that people of all genders are treated fairly and equitably.
We are committed to tackling gender inequality in all its forms, including through addressing intersections of disadvantage.
A key framework we use to advance gender equality is Advance HE’s Athena Swan Charter .
At present, Royal Holloway holds an institutional Athena Swan Silver award, with four departments holding Silver awards (Electronic Engineering, Geography, Psychology and Physics), four departments with Bronze awards (Biological Sciences, Computer Science, Earth Sciences, Mathematics/Information Security) and our School of Business and Management holding a Bronze award.
A selection of Gender Equality highlights at Royal Holloway include:
We are committed to further enhancing our culture and removing barriers, including through addressing our gender pay gap, increasing representation of women professors across the University, and supporting development and progression for our professional services colleagues and our early career researchers amongst other activities.
Note: Royal Holloway recognises that race terminology continues to be a contentious and fast-moving issue.
We currently use the term ‘Black and global majority’ following thorough consultation with our networks and colleagues with ‘lived experience’.
However, we are aware of the limitations of this term and try wherever possible to put information in context and disaggregate the data where possible.
Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter (REC) provides institutions with a framework they can use to undergo a process of self-reflection and identify institutional and cultural barriers which may hinder the representation and success of Black and global majority colleagues and students.
Royal Holloway was one of the first eight institutions to have been successfully awarded a bronze level award in the 2015 pilot round of the REC, and following our Bronze renewal in February 2019, Royal Holloway became a Silver award holder in November 2024, one of five Higher Education institutions to hold this level of award.
We are enormously proud of this achievement, though profoundly aware of the work that lies ahead.
We are continuing to work hard on a range of projects to remove barriers for Black and global majority staff and students and establish an inclusive culture within which all individuals, irrespective of race or ethnicity, feel supported and a sense of belonging.
To help drive this work forward, we now have a dedicated Senior Leader Champion for Race Equality, who plays a key role in advocating for and supporting progress across the University.
A selection of our Race Equality initiatives include:
One of our six Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Guiding Principles within our EDI Framework 2023-2028 is 'Inclusion ‘by design’, with the University establishing equity and inclusion as central to planning, practices, processes, communications and behaviour.
In December 2023 Royal Holloway became a Disability Confident Leader .
This means that we play a leading role in changing attitudes towards disability.
We are committed to continuing to recruit, retain, and support disabled students and staff.
A selection of Disability Equality initiatives include:
In 2023 Royal Holloway was recognised as a top 100 employer by Stonewall in its current list which recognises LGBTQ+ inclusive organisations across the public, private and third sectors in the UK.
Additionally, we achieved a Gold Award recognising that we met a high proportion of Stonewall's criteria for transgender and bisexual inclusion, supporting two of the most marginalised groups within the LGBTQ+ community.
A selection of LGBT+ Equality initiatives include:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/edi-governance-policies-and-reports:
Our EDI Governance, policies and reports
Our Vice-Chancellor and Principal Professor Julie Sanders, alongside our University Council, have overall responsibility for Equality.
Our central Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee oversees the on-going development and implementation of all strategies, policies and procedures designed to embed the promotion of equality and diversity across the institution.
The EDI Committee reports to the University Executive Board and works with key EDI groups and leads in Professional Services to ensure that our principles are mainstreamed and underpin all that we do.
Our EDI governance structure is designed to Ensure diverse perspectives and lived experiences inform our work through network representation embedded throughout; facilitate focus on intersecting issues; and strengthen collaboration between colleagues and students .
We have developed a range of policies to support all colleagues and students across the university, including reasonable adjustments, menopause, transitioning at work, flexible working and dignity at work, and a range of family-friendly policies.
We are continually revising and strengthening accompanying guidance to ensure our policies are effective.
We have Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) guidance in place to identify and mitigate the impact of policies on different individuals and groups.
We offer regular EIA training for senior managers, and professional services and academic colleagues directly involved in amending existing, or developing new policies and practices.
Dignity and Respect Policy (Students)
Here are our most recent reports monitoring equality and equal pay among our staff
Here are our most recent reports monitoring the performance of our students by ethnicity, gender, disability and age.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/culture-inclusion-and-belonging:
Culture, inclusion and belonging
We are committed to ensuring our students, colleagues and visitors feel welcomed, included and supported.
These pages provide insight into activities and support we offer, including learning and awareness events and opportunities, our peer-support networks, and our mental health and wellbeing activities amongst other initiatives.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/education/our-education-priorities:
Our education priorities
Our priorities are based on our strategic plan which runs from 2021 -24 and takes into account our learnings from the pandemic along with demographic changes in London, our student population and our regulatory obligations.
We have three main areas of focus: access, success and progress.
Each area has its own plan, initiatives and funding to ensure that we are supporting students from all backgrounds to gain access, supporting them to succeed, and helping them develop professionally.
A summary of each area is outlined below.
Access initiatives
An inclusive learning community is important to us and we are proud that we have been able to build a diverse student population through our Widening Access initiatives.
For Postgraduate Taught (PGT) students:
If you would like to learn more about our activities or need support to apply to Royal Holloway, contact our Widening Access Team .
Success initiatives
We are committed to ensuring that all students complete their degrees and realise their full potential.
Our education projects, services and programmes ensure:
We aim to reduce the gap in degree awarding between students from different ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds by 2030.
Some of our initiatives include:
Progress initiatives
Preparing students for life beyond the classroom is a key educational priority at Royal Holloway.
We are committed to ensuring students:
Our Careers Service delivers direct support to students and co-ordinates wider employability activity with a close relationship between the Careers Service, Schools and departments.
We also run an extensive and award winning volunteering programme with opportunities in five areas: Community Action, Community Research, Social Action, Sports Volunteering and Volunteering Abroad.
Details of how we embed employability within our curriculum can be found on our Embedding employability page.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/recent-graduates:
Recent graduates
Whether you are embarking on further study, starting a new career or planning your next adventure, your journey with Royal Holloway continues long after you graduate.
As recent alumni, you have access to the full range of exclusive benefits and support as well as careers support for two years.
Use the links below to find out everything you need to know about being a recent graduate and make the most of your alumni community!

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/alumni-groups/the-bedford-society/celebrating-175-years-since-the-founding-of-bedford-college:
Celebrating 175 years since the founding of Bedford College
In 2024 we celebrated the 175th anniversary of the founding of Bedford College.
To celebrate the 175th anniversry, events took place in three places of significance for the college: Bedford Square, Regent’s Park and Egham.
The details of the events are below.
If you studied or worked at Bedford College and do not currently receive emails from the Bedford Society, please update your details and communication preferences .
During the year you can also share your memories of studying or working at Bedford College , to help to create a digital archive and keep alive the experience of being a part of Bedford College.
You might also want to bear in mind the opportunity – especially in 2024 - of using the Bedford Room at 11 Bedford Square to meet up informally with friends from your year or subject.
Or you might want to organise your own celebration/gathering, if you're planning on doing this please get in touch .
Watch the recording online
If you couldn’t join us on the day, a recording of the talk given by Professor Caroline Barron (Bedford College History staff from 1965) and Dr Claire Gobbi Daunton (BA History, 1974) on the founding of the college in Bedford Square is available online here .
A short film showing attendees at this event is available to watch here .
An opportunity to celebrate by returning to the former Bedford College site in Regent’s Park.
There were short talks, involving current and former staff and students, on the founding principles of the college and how they remain relevant to today, then afternoon tea and tours of the building, once so familiar to us.
You can watch a recording of the talks online here .
This was a wonderful opportunity to join the annual Heritage Open Day on the Royal Holloway campus, Egham.
This year there was an additional focus on the academic work and life of Bedford College, through talks and displays alongside the regular heritage day activities and tours.
There was also a reception for Bedfordians, giving an opportunity to meet up with fellow alumni and former staff.
You can watch a recording here .
Read about the event and access the presentations
The opportunity to explore University of London Archive material relevant to Bedford College held at Senate House was exciting enough but the experience was enhanced by the superb presentations about the Bedford and University of London Archives.
We met at 11 Bedford Square for tea and coffee and the chance to introduce ourselves to each other and catch up with those we had met before.
It was so nice to recognise other alumni who had attended previous 175th anniversary events during the year.
Dr Naomi Lebens and Anne-Marie Purcell, the Culture Team at Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, gave a fascinating presentation in the Bedford Room about the contents and uses of the Bedford Archive, (a link to which is available below).
Of particular note, were a document showing many male signatories to a petition in favour of admitting women to medical degrees and a letter discussing the theory of relativity written in German and dated 4th July 1949, from Albert Einstein to Dr Wilson who was the then Head of Physics at Bedford College.
We heard about the further work that is needed to be undertaken, which could be achieved a lot quicker if we manage to raise enough money through the 175th Anniversary appeal to employ a dedicated Bedford Archivist, it inspired me to make a Christmas donation.
At the end of the presentation there is information about how to access the Bedford Archive online and in person.
We then walked over to Senate House to hear from Angharad Eyre, who is a researcher at University of London with a special interest in the historic development of higher education for women.
This interest had obviously heavily involved the history of Bedford College and it was Angharad who was the original instigator of the day’s activities.
Angharad has kindly given us a copy of her talk, list of the Archive material presented and PDF of her presentation, (links available below).
Particularly fascinating were the number of Bedford scarves visible in the photos of University of London students out carol singing and the varied newspaper articles demonstrating changing social attitudes.
Her talk was both amusing and informative and perfect preparation for our subsequent hands-on experience of the Archive articles and a tour of the Senate House building, before which we were addressed by the current Vice-Chancellor, Professor Wendy Thompson, who gave us a warm welcome.
During the tour we saw the recently installed portrait of Dame Lillian Penson, Vice-Chancellor of University of London 1948-51, the first woman to become Vice-Chancellor of a university in the UK.
This portrait was commissioned by the current V-C and painted from an old black and white photograph.
We are hopeful that something similar can be achieved of Elizabeth Jesser-Reid, since no portrait currently exists of her.
Other highlights included a beautiful hand painted mural depicting central London and beyond, including the locations and emblems of all the London Colleges and the Charles Holden models depicting the history of Senate house.
N.B.
We have since learned that alumni of all University of London colleges are now able to register as alumni of University of London, which includes the right to use the library for reference for free.
Details are available on the University of London website: www.london.ac.uk
All in all, a thoroughly enjoyable and interesting day out which some of us finished off with lunch in the newly refurbished restaurant in the basement of Senate House, which lived up to its excellent reviews.
Betty Hales (Physics 1973)
Read the presentation slides: Archives of Bedford College
Read the presentation slides: Bedford College and the University of London Notes from the University of London Presentation
Archive notes from the University of London Presentation
alumni@royalholloway.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/alumni-news/ready-steady-get-started:
Ready, steady, Get Started
The spirit of inclusion with which both Royal Holloway and Bedford College were founded continues to thrive.
We are committed to ensuring there is equality of opportunity for under-represented groups to access a world-class university education at Royal Holloway.
We do this in a variety of ways through our Widening Access strategy, at the forefront of which is the Get Started awards.
These awards provide a one-off payment of £1,250 for an eligible student’s first year or Integrated Foundation Year.
Our goal is to be able to support 20 students each year by 2025.
To ensure the awards go to the most deserving students, applicants must attend a Widening Access priority target school as well as meeting at least one further Widening Access criterion.
The funds enable students to purchase essential equipment to improve their initial experience at university, and relieve financial worries which might have made them reconsider pursuing higher education.
“The Get Started award has allowed me to put my mind at ease and focus on my course,” said recipient Abdirahman.
Another awardee, Rabina (pictured below), agreed.
“Without the support, I would have the stress of finance in the back of my mind, hindering the beginning of my university experience” she says.
“Fortunately, it has made the most significant difference.”
“Get Started continues to be an in-demand award for incoming students at Royal Holloway from underrepresented groups,” says Jonathan Plummer, the university’s Widening Access Manager.
“It is also evidence that our outreach programme of activities is reaching the right students and that a real connection with Royal Holloway is being established.” The Get Started awards would not be possible without the generosity of individual donors from our alumni community and the collective philanthropy of those alumni who support the Greatest Needs fund.
"My experience at Royal Holloway, and the benefit of fantastic teachers, gave me the confidence to pursue a career in finance and I have been fortunate to travel all over the world and meet people from all walks of life,” says Get Started donor Nick Perryman (BSc Psychology, 1997) (pictured below), who is Vice Chair of College Council and serves on the Finance Committee.
“Going to university is a life-enriching experience and I am delighted to support the Get Started awards so that those less advantaged may have the same opportunities I’ve had to pursue their ambitions and fulfil their personal and professional potential.”
For more information or if you would like to support the awards, please contact development@royalholloway.ac.uk or make a donation at royalholloway.ac.uk/donate-now
Alumna Dame Emma Bridgewater speaks to us about the social purpose at the heart of her business, her thoughts on AI, and why she’ll never retire.
This year's summer graduation ceremonies included the award of Honorary Degrees.
We recently welcomed graduates to a special alumni reception at the University of London.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-history/our-story/honorary-awards:
Honorary awards
Royal Holloway bestows honorary awards in recognition of an outstanding contribution to a particular field or exceptional commitment and service to Royal Holloway.
The awarding of honorary degrees and honorary fellowships allows us to celebrate success and achievement aligning with our vision and values.
Each award ceremony is a chance to publicly acknowledge inspirational people, often alongside the celebration of our graduating students' own incredible academic achievements.
Honorary graduates and honorary fellows are an important part of our community and we are strengthened by the many ways in which they are able to contribute to the University.
We draw on their skills and experiences and value this wide and diverse network of local, national and international ambassadors for Royal Holloway.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/pioneering-women:
Pioneering women
Both Colleges helped some remarkable women achieve great things.
Sarah Parker Remond was an abolitionist, women’s rights campaigner and public speaker.
Cam’s career started at Royal Holloway College in 1904 with a scholarship to study history.
Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay was a social reform activist.
George Eliot attended Bedford College in 1849.
Kerstin Hesselgren was the first woman elected to the Swedish Parliament and the first Swedish female delegate to the League of Nations.
Hilda Martindale was a pioneering senior civil servant.
Dr Louisa Martindale was a groundbreaking surgeon.
Dame Margaret Miles was the head of the first girl's comprehensive school.
Rosalind Pitt-Rivers helped discover the thyroid hormone triiodothyronine T3.
Professor Eva Germaine Rimington Taylor was the first woman to hold an academic chair of Geography in the UK.
Ethel Watts was the first woman to qualify as a chartered accountant.
Emily Wilding Davison studied English at Royal Holloway and graduated in 1893.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/get-involved:
Get involved
There are many reasons to keep in contact with Royal Holloway as alumni.
Firstly, it is good for you!
Be part of our global and socially active community, and access benefits ranging from career support, library membership and networking opportunities, to hosting your wedding in the College Chapel.
Secondly, you can help us - by offering work placements and sharing skills and experiences with students you’ve developed in your career are just some of the ways you can support.
Explore more using the links below.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/alumni-events:
Alumni events
Our events programme runs all year round, and you’re always welcome.
Each year, we organise events and reunions exclusively for alumni in the UK and abroad.
There are also lectures, exhibitions, recitals and concerts at the university year-round which are open to alumni as well as students, staff and the local community.
Please check the events calendar to see what’s on.
Royal Holloway and CoSTAR will host a special panel and networking event in Los Angeles this September, bringing together leading figures in creative technology and transatlantic innovation.
Read more about the event here.
Celebrating Women in STEM
A panel of leading women in science at Royal Holloway, University of London will share their groundbreaking research across Physics, Mathematics, Computer Science, Information Security, and Electronic Engineering.
Join us for an evening of inspiring talks, discussion, and networking.
More information will be available soon.
We send event invitations straight to alumni who are signed up to receive email communications, update your details so we can let you know about relevant events.
Reunions are a wonderful way to reconnect with former classmates and help you make new professional contacts.
We can support you through the process of organising a reunion, whether it’s a small drinks reception or a whole weekend of activity.
Please contact the Alumni Relations team or +44 (0)1784 414478 for more information.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/recent-alumni:
Recent alumni
Whatever you are doing, wherever you are in the world, Royal Holloway is here to support you.
So whatever you are doing, wherever you are in the world Royal Holloway is here to support you.
Use the links below to explore the benefits and services available and make the most of your alumni community!

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/alumni-news:
Alumni and supporter news
Submit alumni and supporter news via our online form .
For main university news, please view this page .
Royal Holloway’s vibrant creative writing community took center stage at this year’s Bedford Square Review reading, held in central London.
A group of Bedfordians and current students were given the opportunity to understand the significance of the Bedford College Archives first hand during the 175th anniversary of the College's founding.
Royal Holloway Drama and Theatre Studies alumna, Claire Leith, is proud to present her latest performance art piece Igloos Don’t Melt premieres at Camden People’s Theatre this April.
Royal Holloway’s recent visit to Athens offered a wonderful opportunity to connect with our vibrant alumni community in Greece.
Bedford alumna, Hedda Bird, wrote a compelling new play about Elizabeth Jesser Reid, the pioneering founder of Bedford College.
We were delighted to host successful Alumni and Friends Receptions in Delhi, Bengaluru, and Mumbai, where we were joined by Royal Holloway graduates from a wide range of disciplines and career paths.
Royal Holloway alumna Mamta Singh (MA Documentary by Practice, 2011) has been named a finalist in the Media & Journalism category of the prestigious India UK Achievers Honours.
Margaret Partridge: A Pioneer for Women in Engineering Royal Holloway and Bedford College

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/recruiting-our-students/careers-events:
Careers events
At Royal Holloway, we offer a wide range of opportunities for employers to engage with our students on campus in addition to our popular careers fairs.
Employer drop-ins offer employers and alumni the opportunity to host a pop-up stand in the busiest area on campus, meeting students informally and raising awareness of their offering.
These drop-ins allow students to drop by and ask questions about the roles on offer, the application process and how to stand out and are a great way to promote opportunities and attract talent.
It can be really beneficial for an employer to provide students with specific information on their graduate schemes or internships, or talk them through the application process.
Themed careers talks can be scheduled as a stand-alone event, or linked to an employer drop-in.
We regularly invite employers to participate in our skills programme, supporting in areas such as personal branding, interview practice, CV reviews or sector guidance.
This type of workshop is ideal for both well-known and smaller or specialist employers as the focus is very much on the skill being acquired, and can be aligned to a particular sector.
Employers and alumni offer real-world insights for students which are highly valued, as well as guidance and mentoring towards their career of choice.
We regularly hold sector-themed panels, enabling students to explore a range of options and discover possible career paths.
Our LinkedIn days are held three times a year and provide a free photo booth for students to obtain a professional profile photo.
We also invite employers to come along and provide one-to-one feedback to students on their profiles, from the point of view of a recruiter or expert in a particular industry.
These days are incredibly popular with students and employers alike.
We run online campaigns and often ask employers and alumni to contribute content to these, such as short videos, job profiles or top tips for success.
We also have an active blog page and welcome contributions and helpful updates.
We offer a targeted email service to employers wishing to promote their opportunities to students.
Please enquire at the email below for further details.
Interested in taking part in one of these events?
Contact our Employer Engagement and Communications Team to find out more at employers@rhul.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/recruiting-our-students/targeted-email-service:
Targeted Email Service
Benefit from our targeted email service and connect with students in a timely, effective, and student-first manner.
Our targeted email service is available at a rate of £50.00 + VAT per email.
Electronic payment is required in advance.
Editorial Control: We retain full editorial control over all content shared via this service.
This includes editing for tone, clarity, compliance, and alignment with university values.
Scheduling and Timelines: During high-demand periods (e.g., start of the academic year, exam times), we may suggest alternative dates to avoid message fatigue and ensure maximum impact.
Targeting and Audience: To maximise engagement, our team will guide you in selecting the most relevant student segments.
Final approval of recipient lists rests with us.
Engagement Reporting: We provide overall engagement metrics such as open and click rates upon request.
No individual-level data is shared.
Trackable Links: We permit the use of trackable links, provided they comply with all relevant privacy and data protection standards.
Additional Communications: We reserve the right to include additional university-related opportunities in your email where relevant and appropriate.
Payment Terms: All campaigns must be paid for in advance via our payment link.
In exceptional cases, we may issue an invoice, subject to our standard payment terms.
Language: All content must be submitted in English.
Processing Time: Please allow up to five working days for review and processing of your request.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/recruiting-our-students/privacy-notice-for-employers:
Privacy Notice for Employers
Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, also known as Royal Holloway, University of London, will act in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 when controlling and processing your personal data.
This notice explains how we collect, use and share your personal data and your rights in relation to the processing of your data.
In this notice: • ‘personal data’ means any data which can identify you directly or indirectly (whether by itself or when combined with other data), regardless of the format or media on which the data are stored.
This includes data that can identify you when combined with other data that is held separately (pseudonymous data) but does not include data that has been manipulated so that you can no longer be identified from it (anonymous data).
• ‘processing’ means any activity relating to your personal data including collection, use, alteration, storage, disclosure and destruction.
The data the University collects includes: • Contact details including business email and telephone number • Employment details including job title and area of industry • A record of your involvement in activities organised by the Careers Service • Visual images • Education, professional qualifications details • Previous employment details • Academic records relating to publications and research grant awards.
• Financial information • Social media details e.g.
Instagram accounts, Facebook pages.
Special category data processed may include: • Age • Sex • Sexual orientation • Gender reassignment • Disability Pregnancy and maternity • Ethnic origin • Trade union membership • Religious or other similar beliefs • Physical or mental health details • Spent and unspent criminal convictions
You may provide us with personal data about other individuals, for example colleagues’ contact details.
You should notify the relevant person that you are providing their contact details to the University and in what capacity (e.g.
in relation to your organisation’s participation in a careers event).
We collect your data when you complete our Employer Booking Forms, through correspondence etc.
For example: When we receive your enquiry through our online form When you complete a registration of interest form When you contact us by any means with queries etc.
When you contact us via LinkedIn When you book to attend an event When you provide your personal profile
If you have given your permission, we may on occasion receive information about you from third parties such as staff in academic departments.
We collect your data in order to provide you with information regarding careers events, placement schemes, advertising job vacancies, process your event booking form or enquiry, process invoices.
We also collect your data in order to provide information to students and graduates regarding careers events, placement schemes and job vacancies.
We collect your contact details in order to communicate opportunities for employers to be involved in careers-related activities, such as fairs, workshops and placement schemes, and you can update these at any time on the Organisations tab of our Careers Portal.
This is done on the basis of our legitimate interests in providing students with employment opportunities.
We collect your financial information in order to process invoices relating to careers events and placement schemes.
We collect your insurance details as part of our work placement procedures.
This is done on the basis of your legitimate interests.
We may also use digital content relating to past events on our website and social media.
Note: There are a number of ways you can provide this information and no one way is better.
• to perform a contract the University has entered into with you or take steps before entering into a contract with you at your request • to comply with the University's legal obligations (for example, complying with employment and tax, immigration, health and safety and safeguarding laws, preventing and detecting crime, assisting the police and other authorities with their investigations) • where necessary for our legitimate interests or those of a third party provided your interests and rights do not override those interests (for example, to provide information regarding speakers at a careers event) • to protect your vital interests or those of another person (for example, where we know or have reason to believe that you or another person may suffer harm) • to perform a public task in the public interest or in the University's official functions, and the task or function has a clear basis in law.
In circumstances where you have a genuine choice as to whether we should process your personal data, we will ask you for your consent.
The method used to obtain your consent will depend on the scope and context of the processing that we propose.
In relation to special categories of personal data and personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences, we may request your explicit consent unless a condition applies which allows us to process such personal data without doing so.
The University must only retain your personal data for as long as necessary to fulfil the purposes for which it was collected and to satisfy any legal, regulatory, accounting or reporting requirements.
Specified retention periods are applied to each category of personal data that we may process about you.
In setting these retention periods, the University has taken into account: • the nature, sensitivity and volume of the personal data • the potential risk of harm to you arising from the University's continued retention of the personal data • the purposes for which the University may process your personal data • whether the University is required to retain any personal data by law or in accordance with its legitimate interests Your data will be kept in accordance with the University's Records Retention Policy and Schedule.
The University has a comprehensive, image-only CCTV surveillance system across its campus.
Cameras located on and within buildings are monitored by Security.
On occasions, Security staff will wear Body Worn Cameras in the course of their duties.
These cameras record both images and sound, and data captured in this manner is processed in compliance with GDPR.
The University uses ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) camera technology to manage, control and enforce parking on its sites.
They are governed under guidelines from the Information Commissioner’s Office on the use of CCTV and ANPR Cameras and are operated by College’s Security team.
In exceptional circumstances this information may be used as evidence in disciplinary cases.
Where the University uses third parties to process personal data on its behalf (acting as data processors), a written contract will be put in place to ensure that any personal data shared will be held in accordance with the requirements of data protection law and that such data processors have appropriate security measures in place in relation to your personal data.
This includes companies which provide such services as our Careers Service Management System (careers portal) Where we may wish to acknowledge your involvement in any careers-related activities at the University we will request your permission beforehand.
Please note that in certain circumstances we may need to share your personal information with a regulator or to otherwise comply with the law.
Most personal data about you, including your personnel file, will be stored on servers within the UK or elsewhere within the European Economic Area (EEA).
On occasion it may be necessary for the University to transfer your personal data outside of the European Economic Area (EEA).
This will only take place in circumstances where there are appropriate and adequate safeguards in place which incorporate appropriate assurances to ensure the security of the information and compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
The University has put in place appropriate technical and organisational security measures to prevent your personal data from being accidentally lost, used or accessed in any unauthorised way or altered or disclosed.
In addition, the University limits access to your personal data to the persons and organisations, including those described above, who have a lawful and/or legitimate need to access it.
The University has also put in place procedures to deal with any suspected personal data security breach and will notify you and any applicable regulator of a suspected breach where legally required to do so.
You have a number of rights in relation to the processing of your personal data by the University: • Access: You have the right to request access to and be provided with a copy of the personal data held about you together with certain information about the processing of such personal data to check that the University is processing it lawfully and fairly.
• Correction: You have the right to request correction of any inaccurate or incomplete personal data held about you.
• Deletion: You have the right to request erasure of any personal data held about you where there is no good reason for the University to continue processing it or where you have exercised your right to object to the processing of your personal data.
• Restriction: You have the right to request restriction of how the University processes your personal data; for example, to confirm its accuracy or the University reasons for holding it or as an alternative to its erasure.
• Objection: You have the right to object to the University processing of any personal data which is based on the legitimate interests of the University or those of a third party based on your particular circumstances.
You also have the right to object to the University processing your personal data for direct marketing purposes.
• Portability: You have the right to receive or request that the University transfers a copy of your personal data in an electronic format where the basis of the University processing such personal data is your consent or the performance of a contract, and the information is processed by automated means.
• Complaints: You have the right to complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) in relation to how the University processes your personal data.
Our registration number with the Information Commissioner’s Office is Z7056965.
The University may be entitled to refuse any request in certain circumstances and where this is the case, you will be notified accordingly.
Where the lawful ground relied upon by the University to process any of your personal data is your consent, you have the right to withdraw such consent at any time without having to give any reason.
However, if you do so, the University may not be able to provide some or all of its services to you or the provision of those services may be affected.
You will not have to pay any fee to exercise any of the above rights, though the University may charge a reasonable fee or refuse to comply with your request if any request is clearly unfounded or excessive.
Where this is the case, you will be notified accordingly.
To protect the confidentiality of your personal data the University may ask you to verify your identity before fulfilling any request in relation to your personal data.
The University may update this notice at any time and may provide you with further notices on specific occasions where we collect and process personal data about you.
You should check this notice regularly to take notice of any changes.
Where any change affects your rights and interests, we will make sure we bring this to your attention and clearly explain what this means for you.
If you have any questions or comments regarding this notice or you wish to exercise any of your rights you should contact our Data Protection Officer by email at dataprotection@royalholloway.ac.uk.
You also have the right to complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office and you can find more information on their website – www.ico.org.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/rh2030s:
RH2030s

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability/how-we-are-organised:
How we are organised
As such, we include Environmental Sustainability in our staff inductions, have launched a new Environmental Policy , and offer termly guided tours of our Living Campus – helping all colleagues to realise how they can get involved in our work.
We have also recently (as of November 2024) launched our new Environmental Sustainability Plan for Operations.
This new two-year plan will help us to achieve our ambition (outlined in the University's RH2030s strategy) of being one of London's most sustainable universities.
Specifically, through our objectives to achieve net zero; reduce our waste; improve water efficiency; and increase biodiversity and climate resilience across our campus.
Supported by our central Sustainability Programme Team, the majority of our Operations Environmental Sustainability Plan is delivered by operational teams across Royal Holloway’s Professional Services and Academic Schools.
Our Environmental Sustainability Working Group (ESWG) is made up of representation from these teams and provides strategic coordination for this work and monitors and reports our progress.
In turn, the Environmental Sustainability Working Group reports to the EMS Management Group and upwards through its chair, the Executive Director for Business and People Services.
Based in the Estates Department and sharing resource with a number of other teams, our core Sustainability Programme Team supports colleagues across the entire University.
The team is responsible for central planning, data management, communications and engagement, and also leads a number of energy, waste, water and biodiversity initiative.
Head of Sustainability: Mark Berry
Data Management: Anastasia Holley
Communications and Engagement: Emma Kay
Project support: Linda Hooper
The Environmental Sustainability Working Group (ESWG) is a strategic body that ensures consistent reporting and a cohesive approach to core activities like communications and data management.
The ESWG's Terms of Reference can be found here.
The group meets quarterly, and, as well as the secretariat, membership extends to environmental sustainability representation from across the University:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability/sustainable-operations:
Sustainable operations
Our Operations teams, including Estates, IT Services, Procurement, and Commercial Services, manage and reduce our energy, emissions, water consumption and waste production.
Our Estates Department also looks after our 135-acre parkland estate, which includes a variety of habitats and streams and a rich plethora of flora and fauna species - check out our Living Studio for more information.
We’re embedding sustainability into everything we do, from designing new buildings to purchasing appliances, selecting cleaning contractors, and sourcing kitchen ingredients.
Notable initiatives already in place include:
Our greatest challenge will be decarbonising our Estate in line with our net zero commitments.
Whilst we’ve been continuously improving the energy efficiency of our buildings, switching to sensor-operated LED lights, and prioritising sustainability in construction projects like Chestnuts, we still need to replace remaining gas boilers with heat pumps and single-glazed windows with double and triple glazing.
This long-term programme, estimated at £50-100m over 10-20 years, includes our heritage Grade-1 listed Founder’s Building , which is subject to much stricter planning laws and regulations and will require lots of existing innovation to succeed.
To shape our 10–20-year investment plan and to aid transparency, we’ve established an Environmental Footprint Database of all our energy consumption, emissions, waste production and water use.
From 2023/24 we'll begin annually publishing this information alongside our Financial Statements.
We understand that catering operations can have a significant impact on the environment and we therefore strive to ensure that every aspect of our operations complies with environmental regulations.
Our membership of TUCO (The University Caterers Organisation) ensures that our suppliers are regulated and that environmental issues are embedded into tendering specifications.
We also have a dedicated sustainable hospitality webpage for conferencing and functions.
In our residences, we provide and encourage the use of recycling facilities and we ensure that our students are educated in good recycling practices as part of the mandatory pre-arrival induction process.
As a member of the London Universities Purchasing Consortium,  Royal Holloway prioritises responsible procurement.
Our suppliers must adhere to our Supply Code of Conduct, which covers:
As a leader in this field, we’re also an affiliate of Electronics Watch , an independent monitoring organisation collaborating with public sector organisations to promote and enable responsible procurement and safeguard workers’ rights in electronic supply chains.
Royal Holloway has also adopted a Supply Chain Code of Conduct that has been collaboratively developed and reviewed by the Sustain Project.
We are committed to carrying out our procurement activities in an environmentally, socially, ethically and economically responsible manner and to entering into agreements, and contracts, with suppliers that share and adhere to our vision.
To demonstrate this commitment, current and potential suppliers are asked to acknowledge their compliance with the principles of this Supply Chain Code of Conduct, with respect to their organisation and their supply chain.
In addition to our zero-carbon electricity supply and ongoing energy-saving efforts, we operate five rooftop solar arrays.
Our two largest systems are installed on the newest editions to our estate – the Shilling and Emily Wilding Davidson buildings.
With a combined maximum capacity of over 100kWh, these systems power their respective buildings, and export excess generation to the National Grid.
On-site renewable energy generation will continue to be integral to our decarbonisation strategy, and we’re currently exploring funding and considering locations for additional systems across the campus.
Building
Shilling
Emily Wilding Davidson
Caryl Churchill
Moore
Chestnuts
of Solar Modules
152
150
40
27
10
System size (kW)
41.8
45
12
6.6
4.25
Inverter
Solis 40kW
2x ZeverSolar 17K
Fronius IG Plus
3x Sunnyboy 2000HF
Solar Edge 3680W Home Wave Inverter (1 ph)
Annual Estimated Generation (kWh)
37,994
40,050
10,000
8,000
3,196
Most of our campus fleet runs on electric power, charged with zero-carbon energy on-site.
This includes 13 electric buggies used by our maintenance teams, our gardening team’s electric vehicle, and our clean-air postal van.
In addition to cutting our scope 1 carbon emissions, our electric vehicles (EVs) help keep air pollution low around campus, saving fuel costs, and minimising noise pollution near offices, lecture theatres and halls of residence.
Mike Berry, Director of Estates, said: “Reducing our fleet and transitioning what remains to EVs is a vital part of our sustainability strategy and way of reducing our overall environmental footprint.” “It’s also making more and more sense operationally and, after some initial reluctance, you can see that the teams are now genuinely enjoying and proud to be using the buggies and vans and doing their bit." “They’re a great symbol to our students and visitors that we’re taking our role seriously.”
We still have more work to do, aiming to phase out or replace the few remaining fuel vehicles, decrease the overall fleet size, and advance our wider Green Travel Plan and initiatives.
Environmental sustainability is a consideration for IT Services in all of our operations, and we currently have a large focus on energy saving.
IT procurement
This is reflected in the way we procure technologies for the University and work with external suppliers.
Our conversations with suppliers always presses for a stance on environmental sustainability, ensuring we know how they can meet our requirements and help us deliver a more sustainable service.
Some examples of this include:
On campus
As well as through procurement, we are slowly growing a number of initiatives to help bolster our sustainability efforts.
For example:
The Careers Service is committed to sustainability and in the last two years, many colleagues have undertaken Carbon Literacy training to empower them to have meaningful conversations with students, colleagues and external partners.
In recognition of our students’ interest in sustainability-related careers, as well as the significant increase in sustainability-related roles in the Graduate Labour Market in recent years, we have added a Sustainability Careers Week to our annual careers events programme.
Our Careers Portal is used by students and graduates to search for jobs, placements and part-time work, and all employers who register on the site are asked whether they recognise the climate crisis, and agree with the science, as well as confirming that they are working towards achieving Net-Zero by 2050 or earlier.
This enables students and graduates to search exclusively for opportunities that are offered by these employers if they wish to.
Since the pandemic, we have also significantly reduced the number of posters and flyers that we produce and aim to source sustainable merchandise wherever possible, which is received positively by our students.
Similarly, we send instructions to all employers attending our careers events to consider reducing the merchandise that they offer to students and choosing edible products or those that are made from recyclable materials only.
Many of them are members of the Sustainable Recruiters Alliance and already working towards these practices
Read our Employer Engagement Statement of Principles .
Our new University strategy - RH2030s - commits us to reducing our waste and increasing our recycling rate.
Our Environmental Policy also commits us to applying the waste management hierarchy (which can be viewed below) throughout all of our operations, teaching and research.
After a careful tendering process, we began a new five-year waste management contract in September 2024 with local firm Grundon Waste Management Limited, who will ensure that we continue to send no waste to landfill - with having less waste in the first place still our priority.
As part of our newest contract, Grundon now also service our Egham campus with one of their new zero emission trucks.
Consisting of a large number of processes, policies, procedures and tools, our Environmental Management System (EMS) outlines our framework for protecting and, where possible, enhancing the natural environment.
As of 2025, our EMS is certified to the well-recognised international standard ‘ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems’.
Please see our ISO 14001 certificate .
The EMS scope, for the purpose of our ISO 14001 certification, covers: The provision of higher education and research, including all related support services and site management, at Royal Holloway, University of London.
This applies to all operations and infrastructure across any internal and external spaces over which the University has full operational control, specifically where it can choose and manage its own power, waste and water supplies.
This involves the buildings and grounds that are both owned by, or on long-term rent to, Royal Holloway across its Egham and London campuses, but does not include any non-operational (unused) spaces, or spaces are on long-term rent by Royal Holloway to others.
Where possible, the principles captured in this EMS will also be applied to Royal Holloway’s other domestic and international travel and activities.
EMS Delivery Group
A separate steering group, consisting of the relevant Heads of Service and other colleagues, has been established to manage the EMS framework and accreditation process and oversee the annual site, documentation and waste audits, as well as any necessary external audits.
The group is chaired by Mark Berry, Head of Sustainability, who will report into the Environmental Sustainability Working Group (ESWG) and also provide regular progress reports to the EMS Executive Sponsor – Stephen McAuliffe, Executive Director of Business and People Services.
Full membership extends to:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability/sustainable-research-and-education:
Sustainable research and education
We aim to leverage our Research and Education expertise to encourage, equip and empower our students and staff to be leaders in environmental sustainability.
We’re building momentum.
Our academics have made several successful bids across Environmental and Living Sustainably themes to research funders.
We have a growing partnership network, which includes the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, with which we are launching new joint Masters programmes; Natural England, which has a member of its staff on secondment within the Research and Innovation Directorate; and the London Borough of Hounslow, with which we are working to advance a series of projects, placements and co-supervised PhDs.
Utilising our combined expertise, over 100 modules across our six schools now have an Environmental Sustainability theme within them and we’re scaling up our capacity to provide Carbon Literacy certification.
The Centre for Research into Sustainability (CRIS) is a multidisciplinary, international group of researchers and educators at Royal Holloway, University of London, UK.
We are actively engaged with the understanding of social/ethical, economic and environmental sustainability in contemporary society.
Our purpose, ultimately, is to advance scholarship and contribute to positive social change in terms of the contemporary challenges of poverty alleviation, social injustice and climate change.
Curriculum and learning design at Royal Holloway will equip our students with the skills and knowledge to ensure they are able to live and work in a way that supports sustainable practice and behaviours.
Through a new Curriculum Framework to be launched in 2026, all new courses at Royal Holloway will map the skills acquired through subject learning with clear demonstration of the equivalence and application of those skills to the Education for Sustainable Development learning outcomes.
From 2027 existing courses will be required to complete the same exercise as they enter our periodic review cycle.
Our quality assurance processes will therefore require, embed and monitor this action, providing a guarantee of exposure and training for all students in this area.
Academic course design teams and module leads will be empowered to deliver on this requirement through training and resources provided as part of the Curriculum Framework toolkit.
Here, as well as guidance on mapping skills to the ESD learning outcomes, academic colleagues will be provided with a range of best-practice peer and sector examples of ways to integrate these skills into curriculum, learning and assessment design.
In addition as part of the skills architecture of our degrees we are committed to providing skills-building opportunities for students that extend beyond and augment their subject studies.
In 2025/26 we will launch a pilot of a cross-disciplinary module that offers students a future-facing skills offering including: the opportunity to learn a language; to model solutions to a global challenge through multi-disciplinary collaborative working; to undertake skills training opportunities including carbon literacy training and EDI training.
The pilot will first offer this as a co-curricular opportunity but will explore the scope to offer the module as credit-bearing from 2026/27.
We introduced Carbon Literacy® training to Royal Holloway in 2021.
The day’s worth of training, which focuses on empowering participants to choose their own impactful climate solutions, leads to certification as Carbon Literate by the Carbon Literacy Project.
Hear below from Christopher Cipkin, our Director of Library, Learning Support & Culture, on just some of the ways that Carbon Literacy Training is having an impact across Royal Holloway.
In July 2025 we launched our new Royal Holloway Environmental Sustainability E-Learning course.
Through this training, we hope to provide lots of interesting information about climate change and sustainability on campus, as well as pass on some of the skills and tools that everyone can use to help reduce Royal Holloway’s emissions and achieve it’s ambitions to:
The training, which consists of six bitesize modules, is mandatory for all staff and will also be available to all students.
Study environmental sustainability at Royal Holloway and contribute to solving global challenges.
Choose from one of our expert-led degrees addressing critical issues, including:
Explore more options on our Course Directory .
We signed up to LEAF in December 2024.
Recognising that laboratories are extremely energy and resource intensive LEAF is a standard set by UCL to improve their sustainability and efficiency.
Laboratories can be awarded Bronze, Silver of Gold accreditation depending on the number of sustainability actions in place.
LEAF was tested at Royal Holloway, University of London on the Department of Geography’s Tephrochronology Laboratory.
The lab team were successful in their application for a Silver award, gaining us our first accreditation.
We are continuing to pilot the scheme in Geography and Biological Sciences with the aim of rolling LEAF out to all departments in Term 3.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability/royal-holloway-living-campus:
Royal Holloway's Living Campus
We are committed to championing campus biodiversity and promoting academic and collaborative engagement opportunities across the natural campus.
Royal Holloway’s Egham campus exists within a mature 135-acre parkland estate, characterised by a variety of woodland, meadows and watercourses.
The campus, which is part of a vital connective green corridor, hosts a wide range of natural life.
The mix of meadow and lawns has a diversity of floral species including a population of Bee Orchids; the woodlands across the site are host to a variety of invertebrates, including stag beetle and fungi; and a natural aquifer feeds several springs and stream systems that are inhabited by our resident bullhead fish and Egrets.
With its diverse ecosystem, this provides an ideal setting for studying life sciences like ecology, conservation, and geography, as well as inspiring fields such as performing arts, creative writing, and health studies.
Our London campus also provides access to a range of green spaces and urban environments, that offer very different habitats and human interactions to our Egham estate.
Supporting and facilitating research and teaching that utilises the grounds’ unique benefits is a key focus, and the Living Campus initiative looks to actively advance this mission.
The original college was founded on Mount Lee, a large farm with a name meaning sheltered hill in Old English.
This reflects the unique topography, which features a 50m drop from one side to the other.
This change in level offers varying conditions marked by a change in geology, numerous surface watercourses, and sheltered areas with microclimates that foster rich vegetation and wildlife.
The estate retains traces of its 140-year history since the establishment of Royal Holloway College, including the introduction of unusual plants, many of which are now in maturity, the formalisation of ponds and watercourses, and the numerous paths that provide access through the estate.
Activity before the college’s inception also remains evident on campus where centuries of organised farming resulted in large areas of meadow managed by grazing and woodland managed for productive purposes.
This legacy results in a site that provides a rich biodiversity resource at a local level, as well as being an important part of a wider regional green corridor that includes areas such as Windsor Great Park and Thames Basin Heaths.
If you go for a walk around our Egham campus, you might spot one of our interpretation boards, which explore the different areas and environments we have right on our doorstep.
See the different boards below:
We have a large population of orchids across our site.
Find out which flowers and insects you can find amongst the lawns.
Good meadow management helps keep these rich habitats thriving on our campus.
See how the various plants and animals in these habitats help the meadows to develop.
Our woodlands are woven with the past; have an explore and you'll see how much they have developed since the development of the Founder's Building in the 1800s.
The flowing springs around our campus make a great home for a wide variety of animals; see the board to find out more.
The gardening team work with student volunteers to complete conservational works in and around the ponds.
Together, they manage aquatic weeds, improve water flow and improve habitat continuity, while also preparing areas for new planting schemes.
This hands-on experience not only allows students to develop new skills but also provides insights into operational management and how to care of the natural environment.
More information on Royal Holloway can be found here .
Royal Holloway’s community garden enables students to take ownership and develop new skills, and it provides a space for students to relax and get together.
In the garden, students grow a variety of fruit, vegetables and flowers.
The garden, which is located on our Egham campus, is created and maintained by students and supported by the University’s Volunteering team.
Omnidrome is a world-leading hub for research, innovation, education and knowledge exchange in air, land, and water-based drones, robotics and autonomous vehicles.
The testing and training facility at Royal Holloway’s Egham campus features a purpose-built hangar for developing and testing specialist and experimental drones, along with dedicated outdoor areas for flight training in a controlled environment.
Omnidrome focuses on educating and supporting students in technical and scientific skills for geospatial analysis, environmental monitoring,  and ecological restoration projects.
Planned on-campus projects include:
Aligned with Royal Holloway’s Autumn, Spring and Summer terms, we host seasonal Living Campus walking tours for students and staff with Daniel Steel, our Head Gardener, and Jonathan Howe, our External Spaces Business Partner.
As well as highlighting seasonal features and land management practices, the tours aim to familiarise staff and students with the Living Campus and help them explore how it can be used within their research and teaching.
The University is excited to have made the Nature Positive Universities pledge.
This means that we are demonstrating our ongoing commitment to restoring species and ecosystems across our Living Campus, and enhancing the University's positive impact on the planet.
Vice Chancellor and Principal, Professor Julie Sanders signed the pledge in July 2024, which will require us to submit annual reports on our progress.
There are several self guided walks around the campus that you can explore and see the varied flora and fauna on site.
Find routes on the campus walks webpage.
Royal Holloway has been home to peregrine falcons for many years, but this is the first time we have live streamed their activity, enabling the Department of Biological Sciences to learn more about these incredible birds of prey.
Watch the livestream here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/financial-information/responsible-investment:
Responsible investment
We believe that good stewardship and engagement on ESG issues can benefit companies and markets as a whole, and in the long run will help to deliver better returns which support our core mission: delivering outstanding education and research.
Royal Holloway is fully committed to responsible investing.
We use a specialist ethical and sustainable fund manager.
We have decarbonised our investment portfolio.
We have reduced our exposure to carbon-intensive companies.
We invest in sustainability-focused companies.
Find out about engagement.
We screen out investments that may have a significant negative impact for people and planet.
Our investment policy sets out how we will manage the investments we make.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability/peregrine-falcons-livestream:
Peregrines in our tower
They are the fastest animal on our planet, reaching speeds of up to 200 miles per hour, and Royal Holloway is lucky to have two nesting at our Egham campus.
Royal Holloway has been home to peregrine falcons for many years, but this is the first time we have live streamed their activity, enabling our Biological Sciences department to learn more about these incredible birds of prey.
Our two peregrines haven't laid any eggs this year, and although they are still visiting the nest site regularly, we have decided to switch to our wide angle camera so you can see more of their behaviour outside of the nest.
Please do keep in mind our warning below that these birds are predators, and they do regularly bring prey back to the tower.
Subscribe to our dedicated YouTube channel @RoyalHollowayPeregrines and receive notifications as and when new videos are uploaded of peregrine activity.
Protecting our climate and biodiversity is an area of strength in Royal Holloway’s RH2030s strategy.
Please note, this webcam shows live footage of wild peregrine falcons.
These birds are predators and as such there may be scenes of hunting and eating, or other images that you may find disturbing.
We are unable to intervene in the event of any natural issues with the birds and as such we may switch the stream off if we deem it necessary.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability/fairtrade:
University commitment to Fairtrade
Royal Holloway, University of London is committed to supporting, promoting and improving the understanding of Fairtrade to provide a positive impact.
To underpin this commitment, the University has achieved a University and College Fairtrade award , an award which is valid until June 2027.
Please follow the links below to view the full content of Royal Holloway’s Fairtrade commitments:
Fairtrade Statement of Intent Fairtrade SMART Action Plan Fairtrade Annual Progress Report
Our Fairtrade student and staff survey aimed to understand to what extent our community understood Fairtrade and its significance in order to help target future Fairtrade action plans.
The results of the survey can be seen here .
Students wishing to explore Fairtrade issues in their studies, as a focus for their dissertation or in relation to a volunteer placement might wish to consider the following courses:
BA Human Geography
BA Geography
BSc Geography
BA Geography, Geopolitics and Global Affairs
MSc Sustainability and Management
MSc Project Management

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability/case-studies:
Explore sustainability initiatives across departments at Royal Holloway.
Delve into the diverse and innovative efforts undertaken by various departments at Royal Holloway, all aimed at addressing the critical challenges of climate change and biodiversity loss.
Explore our commitment to sustainability in revitalising the home for our Health Studies Department.
See how we're integrating eco-friendly practices into every aspect of the redevelopment.
Discover how our recent infrastructure upgrade slashed energy consumption by 54%, saving £196,000 over 5 years.
Explore our Green Waste Recycling Pilot, a sustainable solution on campus.
Learn how we're tackling invasive shrubs to promote biodiversity and the growth of native flora.
Discover the intersection of literature and ecology as part of Royal Holloway's Living Campus initiative
Explore our innovative habitat creation, replicating ancient trees with willow rods.
Find out more about our effects to record biodiversity data across our campus.
We're engaging with residents to bolster local flood resilience.
We're championing the voices of young people in shaping environmental public policy.
Discover how art and culture shed light on biodiversity loss and climate change.
Royal Holloway students tackle the climate emergency through film.
Discover how visitors and staff at Kew’s Wakehurst site connect with nature amidst growing concerns about ecological grief.
Royal Holloway's First Sustainability Careers Week in February 2024 showcased green career paths for students
Professor Schreve gathers new insights into how animal species respond to abrupt climate change events, through her Somerset cave excavation.
Restoration work on our Egham Campus' Victorian Jane Holloway Pond and dam
Major works to decarbonise one of our victorian, Egham campus buildings
Find out how our resident carpenter and artist reuses felled trees around campus.
Find out how the Biological Sciences Department use our campus in their first year module 'Ecology and Conservation'.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/environmental-sustainability/plans-policies-and-reports:
Plans, reports and resources
Here you'll find a collection of useful resources, helping you to gain a greater insight into our sustainability work at Royal Holloway.
Environmental Sustainability is one of RH2030s ’ strategic enablers.
It says:
We will empower our students, colleagues and partners to be environmental game-changers, drawing on our creative strengths and leveraging the decarbonisation of our estate.
Published in 2024, our current Environmental Sustainability Plan for Operations outlines our specific energy, waste, water and biodiversity targets over the next two years, and what actions we will complete to achieve them.
Environmental Sustainability Plan for Operations
At a Glance - Environmental Sustainability Plan for Operations
We declared a climate emergency in 2019 and our University strategy, RH2030s, commits us to achieving net zero – a crucial next step in our response to climate change and the focus of our 2050 Net Zero Carbon Reduction Plan.
Carbon Reduction Plan
At a Glance - Carbon Reduction Plan
Royal Holloway’s Green Travel Plan has been developed to help reduce the University’s carbon footprint and also traffic congestion on its Surrey campus and in the local community.
Green Travel Plan
At a Glance - Green Travel Plan
Royal Holloway's Environmental Policy
Royal Holloway ISO 14001 certificate 2025
Financial Statements 2024 Environmental Sustainability Update (pages 31 to 37)
2023/24 emissions report
2023/24 waste report
2023/24 water report
Royal Holloway’s Environmental Sustainability Strategy (2022)
Our mid-year emissions report
Fairtrade is about improving the livelihoods of farmers and workers by paying fair prices which reflect the true cost of production, and enable a decent standard of living.
Fairtrade also encompasses social justice and sustainability, empowering farmers and workers to improve their living standards, the welfare of their community and our shared environment.
Royal Holloway is committed to supporting, promoting and improving understanding of Fairtrade to provide a positive impact.
See our Fairtrade Statement of Intent for 2024-25.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/global-engagement-and-partnerships/international-partnerships:
International Partnerships
We partner with different institutions around the world to deliver collaborative programmes.
We have a range of progression, articulation, and dual awards arrangements, and are looking forward to developing more collaborative programmes with new partners.
For the full list of partner universities please click here .
Please see our current international partners below.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/global-engagement-and-partnerships/university-of-london-partnership:
University of London Partnership
Royal Holloway has worked with the University of London since the 1900s.
We offer the following distance learning programmes :
These online-only courses are delivered by the University of London with academic direction from Royal Holloway and offer an engaging, interactive and interdisciplinary learning experience.
All of our online degrees and diplomas are awarded by the University of London.
University of London staff manage all student administration, including enquiries, applications and registration while online teaching and assessment is conducted by Royal Holloway.
Royal Holloway also works with the University of London with approved recognised teaching centres.
We currently work with more than 20 Recognised teaching centres across the globe offering our BSc Business Administration programme.
They provide on-campus learning opportunities for our students and provide guidance on academic support.
Our teaching centres are:
Our teaching centres in Pakistan are:
For enquiries please email globalpartnerships@rhul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/global-engagement-and-partnerships/study-group-partnership:
Study Group Partnership
Study Group is a leading international education specialist and a trusted strategic partner to Royal Holloway, University of London.
Committed to a better world through education, Study Group guides international students each year towards academic and professional success at the University and beyond.
Royal Holloway, University of London, has collaborated with Study Group for over 13 years.
From outstanding teaching to innovative approaches to international recruitment and student support, Study Group deliver high quality international education solutions that drive success for partners and students.
International Study Centre
Providing programmes through the Royal Holloway International Study Centre , our pathway courses developed alongside the University, prepare students to progress on to a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at Royal Holloway.
Pathway programmes prospective students can enrol on include:
Direct Entry Recruitment and Admissions
With almost a quarter of students joining the University from outside the UK, Royal Holloway is an innovative global institution with an impactful international outlook.
As a result, since November 2022 Royal Holloway has collaborated with Study Group to provide global recruitment and admissions solutions in designated global markets.
This partnership supports more international students who qualify for direct entry to enrol on the University’s broad range of globally recognised undergraduate and postgraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/studying-abroad/join-us-from-abroad/international-exchange/international-exchange-partner-universities:
International Exchange partner universities
Here you can find details of our International Exchange partner universities.
Please note that all agreements are subject to change and/or termination.
Contact us using our query form .
Flinders University, Adelaide
University of Melbourne
University of Western Australia, Perth
University of Sydney
Concordia University, Montreal
Toronto University (subject to agreement renewal)
University of Alberta, Edmonton
Shanghai International Studies University (SISU)
Hong Kong University
Keio University
Ritsumeikan University
Waseda University
Korea University
Victoria University of Wellington
Arizona State University (ASU)
Boston College
George Washington University
Mount Holyoke College
Universidad de las Américas Puebla (UDLAP) (subject to agreement renewal)
University of California
University of Florida
Washington College
Yale University

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/university-of-sanctuary/research:
Research & Teaching
There are three principles that underpin the commitment needed to become a University of Sanctuary: Learn, Embed, and Share .
At Royal Holloway, we are passionate about upholding the three principles through research and teaching.
Royal Holloway is dedicated to teaching on issues of migration and diaspora.
Some of the related courses and modules currently offered at RHUL can be found here:
Undergraduate:
Postgraduate Taught:
We also currently have several PhD projects being undertaken on topics relating to asylum, refugees, and/or displaced people.
RHUL are always looking to support research on asylum, refugees, and displaced people.
We welcome exciting new ideas, please get in touch here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/scholarships/sanctuary-scholarship:
Sanctuary Scholarship
One scholarship is available to a new eligible undergraduate in any subject.
Find out how the Sanctuary Scholarship benefited our alumna Kehinde and how Royal Holloway strives to be a University of Sanctuary .
You can find other support for student refugees via the Schwab and Westheimer Trust website .
Please note, a cash living cost grant may jeopardise eligibility for asylum support and upon receipt of funds, there is a risk that a student may be deemed not destitute and asylum support will be withdrawn.
Advice for asylum seekers who wish to study at university is available at STAR or Asylum Support Appeals Project.
Applications for this scholarship have closed.
Royal Holloway is committed to supporting students who have fled persecution and are seeking asylum to benefit from Higher Education.
If you're able to support us, for example by helping to fund a Sanctuary Scholarship, please contact Philanthropy@royalholloway.ac.uk
You will need to write a scholarship statement of no more than 1,000 words which should include:
Applications which exceed the word count will automatically be rejected.
You must also submit a referee’s supporting statement.
This should be written by someone who knows you and should include:
It is strongly advised that you provide your referee with a copy of your scholarship statement ahead of them writing their supporting statement.
Your referee will need to provide their name and contact details and outline in what capacity they know you.
You must also provide a copy of your immigration documents.
These, and your referee’s supporting statement, should be uploaded on to the applicant portal.
Read our full terms and conditions .
If you have any queries please email rhps@rhul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/alternate-donation:
Single donation
Make a single donation using the secure online form below.
Alternatively, if you would like to make a regular donation, please use this the link in the sidebar.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/university-of-sanctuary/our-scholars:
Our Scholars
Find out how the Sanctuary Scholarship has helped change the lives of our students.
BSc Biomedical Sciences
Kehinde was 13 when she came to the UK where she experienced modern slavery.
Despite the difficulties, she thrived academically, achieving A-levels in biology, chemistry, French and Maths, and dreamed of studying biomedical science at university.
But she had no idea how she would fulfil her goal because as an asylum seeker she needed to pay international tuition fees, but was not allowed to work.
For 10 years she lived in a state of limbo, unable to work and therefore unable to study.
"I just kept myself busy doing a lot of voluntary work.
I got involved with my church, tutoring students in English, maths and science.
It was very helpful because it kept me in a kind of education system," Kehinde said.
When she was 28, Kehinde found out about a fully-funded access course in London which was open to refugees and asylum seekers.
It was there that she found out about Royal Holloway’s Sanctuary Scholarship.
The scholarship promotes access to Higher Education for students who have fled persecution and sought asylum in the UK.
Kehinde applied to study Biomedical Sciences and was delighted when she found out she would be able to take up her place after being awarded the Sanctuary Scholarship.
“When I got the email saying I had got the scholarship, I cried,” she said.
“When new opportunities are opened for you after so many years of waiting and not being believed, I didn’t know any words to say so I just cried.”
After 13 years of fighting to be recognised as an asylum seeker, Kehinde graduated with a first-class honours degree and was able to apply for a job.
She first worked as a laboratory technician before having a baby and then joining a charity which supports people affected by modern slavery and human trafficking.
Kehinde also advocates for survivors and is a lived experience expert.
She said: "The opportunity to work allowed me the ability to earn and contribute to my family.
I'm proud of the work that we do and the research that helps us understand the various aspects of human trafficking and how best to support communities to find a voice.”
Kehinde is currently looking to start a Master's degree in blood sciences and ultimately specialising in respiratory and cardiovascular healthcare.
Kehinde has taken up the opportunity to become our first 'Sanctuary Ambassador' and will continue to work with the Philanthropy team on their ongoing endeavours to support displaced students and colleagues by drawing on her own lived experience.
MSc Digital Business
Yasir shared their experiences as a Sanctuary Scholar at Royal Holloway:
"Receiving the Sanctuary Scholarship has been a transformative experience for me, and I am truly grateful to the donor for their generosity.
The scholarship has significantly alleviated the financial burden that comes with pursuing higher education, allowing me to focus more on my studies without the stress of financial constraints.
It has enabled me to access essential study materials, attend lectures, attend seminars, and participate in workshops that have enriched my academic journey.
Additionally, the support has allowed me to engage in extracurricular activities that have helped me grow both personally and professionally.
The scholarship has been more than just financial support; it has been a source of motivation and a reminder that there are people who believe in my potential and my future.
Over the past year, my focus has been on advancing my understanding of digital business, and I am pleased to share that my studies have been going exceptionally well.
I am currently pursuing an MSc in Digital Business, where I have been delving into topics such as digital transformation, data analytics, Business Intelligence, and cloud computing.
The program has been intellectually stimulating and has provided me with the skills to understand the rapidly evolving digital landscape.
I have been involved in several group projects and case studies that have allowed me to apply theoretical knowledge to real-world scenarios, such as developing a digital strategy for a running business.
These experiences have been invaluable in sharpening my analytical and problem-solving skills.
Additionally, I have taken advantage of networking opportunities with industry professionals, which has expanded my understanding of how digital technologies are reshaping businesses globally.
Looking to the future, I am excited about the opportunities that lie ahead.
Upon completing my MSc in Digital Business, I plan to pursue a career as an Oracle Apps Database Administrator (DBA).
I am particularly interested in working with organizations that leverage Oracle applications to drive digital transformation and optimize their business processes.
My studies have provided me with a strong foundation in digital business and data management, which I believe will be invaluable in this role.
At the same time, I am also considering continuing my education and pursuing a PhD at the Royal Holloway University of London.
I am passionate about exploring advanced research in digital transformation and data analytics, and I believe a PhD would allow me to contribute to the academic community while deepening my expertise.
The Sanctuary Scholarship has empowered me to aim high and has given me the confidence to explore these dual pathways.
I am sincerely grateful for this support and am committed to making a meaningful impact in my future endeavours."
BA Drama and Theatre Studies
Alpana shared their experiences as a Sanctuary Scholar at Royal Holloway:
"I was recently awarded this scholarship, and it has had a profound impact on my life, enabling me to continue my education and pursue my dreams despite the significant challenges I have faced as a single mother asylum seeker in the UK.
Your generosity has been life-changing, allowing me to embark on an educational journey that will shape my future in ways I once thought impossible.
As a victim of persecution in my home country, Bangladesh, I had to leave everything behind and seek refuge in a foreign land.
My journey to safety has not been easy, and I have faced numerous challenges along the way.
In addition to the religious persecution in Bangladesh, I also feared for my safety due to the lack of adequate protection against minority gender-based violence in Bangladesh.
I grew up in a Bengali Hindu family in Bangladesh.
I started learning Kathak dance in parallel with my academic studies.
I have always approached my studies with the same level of dedication and discipline as I do with my music and dance.
I grew up participating in school plays, dance competitions, and theatre productions, which further fostered my love for the performing arts.
I was thrilled to be recognized for my hard work and dedication and was awarded a dance competition by the Prime Minister of Bangladesh.
My future ambition in life is to become a good and elegant Performer, skilful dance choreographer and theatre artist for that reason I am interested in pursuing further studies in ‘BA Drama and Theatre Studies’.
I am passionate about my chosen field of study and eager to contribute to the academic community at Royal Holloway University of London.
This scholarship has not only relieved the financial burden of my education but also provided me with invaluable opportunities to excel academically and personally.
Growing up in Bangladesh, I witnessed first-hand the struggles faced by marginalized communities, including limited access to education.
These experiences fuelled my passion to create positive change, and I am now able to work towards that goal thanks to your support.
I am currently pursuing an undergraduate degree in Drama and Theatre Studies—fields I am passionate about and that I believe can open many doors for me in today’s cultural landscape.
The road to this point has been far from easy.
My childhood in Bangladesh was marked by hardship, with limited access to education and the constant challenge of supporting my family in an unstable environment.
I became an advocate for the rights and safety of my community, working with charities to raise awareness and provide for those in need.
However, when my own life was endangered, I made the difficult decision to seek asylum in the UK.
The Sanctuary Scholarship has given me the opportunity to rebuild my life, focus on my studies, and pursue a career I am truly passionate about.
This scholarship has given me the chance to pursue my degree and develop the skills I need to achieve my goals.
I am moving forward with optimism and determination, and I know that the opportunities this scholarship has provided will help me make a meaningful impact in my community and beyond.
I am sincerely grateful for your belief in the transformative power of education and for supporting individuals like me who are striving to overcome adversity.
I hope that my story serves as a reminder of the incredible difference supporters are making, not just in my life, but in the lives of many others facing similar challenges.
Your dedication to the Sanctuary Scholarship is a beacon of hope for asylum seekers who dream of a brighter future through education.
I am deeply appreciative of your support and commitment, and I thank you for helping me on this journey.
The opportunities and experiences you have made possible will stay with me for a lifetime."
BSc Business and Management
Nifemi shared their experiences as a Sanctuary Scholar at Royal Holloway:
“I am writing to express my heartfelt gratitude for your generosity in funding the Sanctuary Scholarship at Royal Holloway, University of London.
When I received the news that I had been awarded this scholarship, I was overjoyed.
This opportunity has not only changed my life but has also opened the door to an education I deeply value.
I was born in Lagos, Nigeria and lived there for 12 years and moved to the UK as an asylum seeker.
I volunteer at a donation hub where they seek to aid migrant and Individuals in difficult circumstances.
Additionally, I have completed mentorships and internships in business and finance related sectors to help my knowledge about my career path.
Without the Sanctuary Scholarship, I would have had to defer my university education for at least a year.
More importantly, I may not have been able to pursue my undergraduate studies in Business and Management at Royal Holloway at all.
This scholarship has given me the chance to explore my passion for understanding how businesses succeed in diverse environments, bringing me one step closer to my long-term career goals.
During my A-level studies, I faced significant uncertainty about my future.
Due to my immigration status, I was ineligible for opportunities such as apprenticeships, which made me feel unsure of how to continue my education.
After researching other possibilities, I discovered the Sanctuary Scholarship and realised it was my only viable path forward.
While the process was daunting due to the limited availability, your support has provided me with the guidance and reassurance I needed to overcome these challenges.
Thanks to this scholarship, I am now able to pursue my dreams in an environment that fosters both personal and academic growth.
I am incredibly grateful for your belief in students like me, and for giving me the opportunity to succeed at Royal Holloway.
Thank you once again for your invaluable support.
I am committed to making the most of this opportunity and looking forward to the future.”
PhD History
"My PhD project, titled, ‘Global Humanitarianism: Quaker Aid to Refugees from Nazism’ investigates the significant, yet understudied contribution of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) in aiding Jewish victims of Nazi persecution.
Using Holocaust survivor testimony, and minutes, correspondence and memoranda from Quaker organisations in Britain and America, I aim to position the Quaker humanitarian effort during the Second World War within an international network.
My thesis uses the Quaker role in the implementation of the Kindertransport scheme as its chronological starting point, concluding the period under review in the aftermath of the War.
While existing literature on the Quaker response to the Holocaust tends to treat the Kindertransport as a climax, positioning the initiative as a starting point will allow it to be embedded in a longer history of Quaker humanitarian traditions.
Using this combination of pre-war, wartime, and postwar contexts, my project seeks to illuminate how pacifist-based humanitarianism took shape in the face of such challenging circumstances.
I am particularly interested in how aid agencies reconcile their efforts to relieve suffering with the relationships they must maintain with the regimes that cause such suffering.
My project thus treats the Quaker effort to assist victims of Nazism as a tripartite relationship between aid worker, refugee, and fascist.
To do so, I use a variety of material, from Holocaust survivor testimony to official documents from the aid agencies themselves, and from the governments with which they dealt.
This methodology will draw on English-, French-, Portuguese, and German-language material, offering fresh perspectives on Second World War humanitarianism, where existing scholarship tends to rely on English and German sources."
PhD project title: 'The Ties That Bind: Diasporic Aid Networks amongst Malayan-Chinese, 1937-1957.'
Xian is a Malaysian PhD History researcher at Royal Holloway, focusing on aid and humanitarian networks and the Overseas Chinese ( huaqiao ) diaspora in Malaya, particularly their intersections with identity over World War II and the early Cold War.
Xian has recently become focused on the movements of huaqiao from Southeast Asia to China in the face of Japanese annexation in WW2, and how their postwar “repatriation” was impacted by communism and decolonisation.
Outside of his topic, Xian maintains an interest in history education amongst the public in his homeland, and transnational religious networks between Mainland and Diaspora amongst the wider Chinese communities.
Xian is open to collaboration on projects/publications on the Overseas Chinese diaspora and their transnational networks, preferably with a focus on Southeast Asia; he is also open to projects focusing on transglobal/regional aid networks and NGOs.
PhD Politics and International Relations
"My PhD thesis focuses on bisexual+ people claiming asylum in the United Kingdom and France.
While there is very limited quantitative data available on the success rates of such cases, research in other states finds that bisexuals’ asylum claims are much less likely to be successful than those made by gay men and lesbians.
This raises the questions of whether this is also the case in the UK and France; why; and what is it about bisexuality that makes it less recognisable as deserving of international protection?
To decipher how understandings of deservingness of protection and bisexuality are (re)produced through asylum, I carried out semi-structured interviews with refugees and people seeking asylum, lawyers, support workers, state employees and journalists; participant observation; archival research and analysis of legal decisions.
While obtaining refugee status is possible for bisexuals in these states, I argue that bisexuals often exceed the various filtering devices which make up their asylum system, making it difficult to recognise their claims as bisexuals.
To support this, I examine the ways in which the queer refugee has been (re)produced as exclusively homosexual; how protection is determined via a claimant’s proximity to monosexuality; and the tension between the demand for consistency and bisexuality’s fluidity.
Beyond my thesis, I have been involved in queer migrant solidarity organising in London and I have co-run an impact project on how frontline migrant support services can navigate issues of gender and sexuality in their work.
The workbook that resulted from this project can be accessed here ."

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/university-of-sanctuary/news:
In partnership with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the Duolingo University Access (DUA) Programme.
The report explores the experiences of Afghan families' settlement and adjustment in the UK, focusing on the challenges and opportunities in parenting and family life within a new environment.
On the 17th December 2024, members of the RHUL University of Sanctuary Steering Group attended the Universities of Sanctuary Conference at the University of York.
In July, the Afghanistan and Central Asian Association (ACAA) hosted an event to present research findings on the needs and concerns of Afghan mothers in London.
Universities of Sanctuary is an initiative to recognise and celebrate the good practice of universities welcoming people seeking sanctuary.
It is with great sadness we share the news that Gabriel Pretus, alumnus, Honorary Fellow and long-term supporter of Royal Holloway, has passed away.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/university-of-sanctuary/our-people:
Our People
At Royal Holloway, we have a wide community of scholars and staff members who are always happy to talk.
We have compiled a list of key contacts for wellbeing and information, please do get in touch!
Professor Anna Gupta
Professor Anna Gupta leads on Royal Holloway's University of Sanctuary initiative.
As a Professor of Social Work and Deputy Dean and Vice Dean Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, Anna's work focuses on social justice and human rights.
If you have any questions for Anna, please get in touch via email: Anna.Gupta@rhul.ac.uk.
Janice Rodrigues-Mendes
Strategic Communications and Marketing
As the Philanthropy Manager of Major Gifts, Janice has been instrumental in shaping the Sanctuary Scholarship at Royal Holloway.
Janice is the first point of contact for supporting Sanctuary Scholars at Royal Holloway.
If you have any questions regarding scholarships or funding, please contact Janice via email: janice.rodrigues-mendes@rhul.ac.uk.
Emily Gee
Department of Politics and International Relations (DPIR) & Senior Academic Leadership
Emily co-led Royal Holloway's successful application to become a University of Sanctuary .
If you have any questions about information on RHUL and Universities of Sanctuary, scholarships, or teaching and research on refugees, asylum seekers, and displaced people, please get touch with Emily via email: Emily.Gee@rhul.ac.uk.
Tom Pease
International Advice
As the Head of International & Money, Tom works as a part of the wider student support network to support students.
His specialisms cover accommodation, wellbeing, financial advice, and changes in circumstances.
If you have any questions for Tom, please get in touch via email: Tom.Pease@rhul.ac.
uk.
Laxmi Wadher
The Student Services Centre provides a central point of contact for enquiries and services in a way that is accessible to all.
We are dedicated to responding to queries sensitively, fairly and efficiently; if they don’t have the answer to your query they will ensure your query reaches the correct team promptly, saving time and ensuring a faster response.
The Ask Royal Holloway resource is helpful in providing articles on common questions and answers.
If you need further support, please contact Laxmi Wadher via email: Laxmi.Wadher@rhul.ac.uk.
Kate Pozgay
Student Action for Refugees (STAR) Contact
Kate is a postgraduate researcher in the Department of History.
Her research looks at constructions of middle-class white womanhood in the British imperial 'metropole' c.
1876-1914 through the lens of domestic material culture souced from around the empire.
Royal Holloway now has its own chapter of STAR.
Kate leads the Group and is the first point of contact for anyone interested in STAR opportunities.
If you have any questions for Kate, please get in touch via email: Kate.Pozgay.2017@live.rhul.ac.uk.
Kehinde Ojo
As our first Sanctuary Scholar, Kehinde accepted her Sanctuary Scholarship in began her BSc Biomedical Sciences course in 2018.
Kehinde graduated in 2021 with a first-class honours degree.
As our Sanctuary Ambassador, Kehinde will continue to work with the Philanthropy team on their ongoing endeavours to support displaced students and colleagues by drawing on her own lived experience.
If you have any questions for Kehinde, please get in touch via email:
The RHUL UoS Steering Group

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/data-protection:
Data Protection
In addition to the release of general information in response to routine enquiries the University is required to deal with requests arising from statutory rights of access provided by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the Data Protection Act 2018, the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and the Environment Information Regulations 2004.
Compliance with each piece of legislation places obligations on the University about how requests are processed and handled.
The University has a Data Protection Policy .
Under the GDPR you have a number of rights when it comes to your personal data.
When we collect your data, either directly from you or via a third party, we have a responsibility to provide you with information about what we will do with your data, how long we will keep it and who we might share it with.
The document we use to provide you with this privacy information may be called a collection notice, a privacy notice or covered in a privacy policy.
You can only exercise this right if we have not provided this information to you already.
You have the right to access your personal data which the University holds.
You have the right to have personal data rectified if it is inaccurate or incomplete.
If we have disclosed the data to third parties, they will also be informed of the rectification where possible.
Also known as ‘the right to be forgotten’, the broad principle underpinning this right is to enable you to request the deletion or removal of personal data where there is no compelling reason for its continued processing.
This is not an absolute right and in some cases we will need to keep processing some of your personal data.
You have a right to block or suppress processing of personal data.
When restricted, the University will store the personal data but not further process it, in addition to this we shall retain only enough information about you to ensure that the restriction is maintained in the future.
In certain circumstances you can request that the personal data you have provided to us be transmitted to another data controller.
You can object to us processing any of your personal data which is done on the basis of our legitimate interests, in performing a task in the public interest or if we are processing your data for the purpose of research and statistics.
You can also object to any direct marketing you receive from the University.
You have the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing, including profiling, which produces legal effects concerning you or has a similarly significant impact unless this processing is necessary for entering into, or facilitating the performance of, a contract between the you and the University.
We can also process your data in this way if the activity is authorised by law which also lays down suitable measures to safeguard your rights and freedoms and legitimate interests or if you have given your consent.
If you wish to exercise the right of access (make a subject access request) please complete this form .
If you wish to exercise any of these rights other than the right of access , please complete this form .
If you have any questions about data protection at Royal Holloway or wish to contact the Data Protection Officer, please email dataprotection@royalholloway.ac.uk
Read our Applicant Privacy Notice.
Read our Enquirer Privacy Notice.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/local-community/royal-holloway-sport:
Royal Holloway Sport
Get Apptive with this key resource for all things Royal Holloway Sport.
Purchase memberships, make bookings, see the latest news and more.
More information here.
We offer different types of annual, monthly and pay-as-you-go memberships for students, concessions and community.
Click to find out more.
Our facilities are available to hire at competitive rates on an ad-hoc and block booking basis.
More information can be found here.
If you're looking for a large, accessible space suitable for a range of fun activities including children's birthday parties, look no further than the Royal Holloway Sports Centre.
For all updates on our facilities and services, and frequently asked questions, please click here.
How to find us, parking at the sports centre, opening hours and contact information.
Keep up to date with daily content showcasing the best of sport and physical activity at Royal Holloway through our social media channels.
Membership terms and conditions, health commitment statement, privacy notice and other terms and conditions associated with activities and services from Royal Holloway Sport.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/civic-agreement-for-surrey:
Civic Agreement for Surrey
The Civic Agreement for Surrey is a landmark initiative, making a public declaration of our shared commitment to working together in the interests of the wider Surrey community: ensuring that no one is left behind.
Surrey County Council, in partnership with Surrey’s three leading universities - Royal Holloway, University of London; University for the Creative Arts; and the University of Surrey - have now aligned with a new Civic Agreement for Surrey.
This ground-breaking initiative defines a shared commitment for these organisations to work collaboratively in the interests of the wider Surrey community: ensuring that no one is left behind.
By pooling resources and expertise, the partners believe they are better placed to address local needs, drive innovation, and create a more inclusive and resilient Surrey by 2030.
It will serve as a public commitment to working together to bring about real and positive change to the people who live, learn and work in our communities across the county.
Details are set out in a 32-page formal document which defines shared priorities, objectives, programmes of work and future ambitions.
All will be delivered against four shared priorities, which are:
Prof.
Julie Sanders, Vice-Chancellor and Principal, Royal Holloway, University of London said: “As a University of Social Purpose, we want to take a proactive role in tackling societal changes, enabling sustainable social and economic growth, and improving skills and opportunities for those in our community.
Our inclusive education and research has a focus on achieving positive benefits for and with our local community, and our collaboration with academic partners, community groups, schools and local government brings investment, jobs and opportunity to Surrey.
As well as through the Centre for Doctoral Training with the University of Surrey and its emphasis on digital inclusion, this effort is integral to the CoSTAR project, which seeks to ensure the UK’s screen and performance industries have the infrastructure, research and innovation skills to compete globally.
Declaring our public agenda through the Civic Agreement for Surrey will amplify the positive role the university can play in the region.”
We welcome further engagement from community stakeholders, businesses, and residents who share an interest in advancing the shared priorities and objectives set out in our civic agreement.
Further details on how the community can get involved will be shared in due course.
For more information on the Civic Agreement for Surrey and how you can get involved, contact: civicagreement@surreycc.gov.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-history/our-story/in-tv-and-film:
In TV and film
Royal Holloway’s distinctive Founder’s Building and stunning grounds have proved to be a popular filming location in the production of a range of TV shows and films.
These productions have included:
Filming at Royal Holloway is permitted during the Christmas, Easter and summer student vacation periods and on certain weekends at other times of year.
If you are interested in filming opportunities at Royal Holloway, please download, complete and return our Filming Enquiry Form .
Please email or call +44 (0)1784 276677 if you have any enquiries about filming at Royal Holloway

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/student-life/our-campus/explore-the-campus/places-of-interest/founder-s-building:
Founder’s Building
We live, study and socialise in a high-tech, vibrant atmosphere, with the Founder’s Building, an impressive Victorian masterpiece based on a French chateau, at its heart.
The Founder’s Building is one of the world’s most spectacular university buildings.
Opened by Queen Victoria in 1886, it sits at the heart of university life.
The building is home to our famous Picture Gallery containing Thomas Holloway’s fine collection of Victorian paintings , and our beautiful Chapel .
It also houses a dining hall and library and provides a home for 500 of our students.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/governance:
Governance
Find out about the people who lead Royal Holloway, and the structures we have in place for good governance and responsible decision-making.
The University Council is the governing body of Royal Holloway.
Responsible for overall strategy and policymaking, it comprises a mix of elected, independent and ex officio members.
The Vice-Chancellor and Senior Leadership Team are directly responsible for the leadership and management of the University.
Executive Board approves (or recommends to Council where appropriate) all major strategies, policies, projects, and decisions around use of resources.
The Executive Board comprises the Senior Leadership Team and Executive Deans .
Non-members may be invited to join meetings where their specific expertise is needed to inform decision-making.
Academic Board is the most senior academic decision-making body at the University.
It is responsible for teaching, examining, and research, providing advice and assurance to the University Council in these areas.
Royal Holloway Students’ Union (RHSU) is fully autonomous, with the President serving as an ex officio member of University Council.
Royal Holloway is part of the University of London , a federal organisation of 18 self-governing colleges and ten other smaller specialist research institutes.
We are proud to maintain our distinctive identity and direction as Royal Holloway, as well as being part of a thriving University of London community.
Like many universities, Royal Holloway has full (exempt) charitable status , reflecting the public benefit of our work.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/charitable-status:
Charitable status
Royal Holloway has full charitable status but is exempt from requirements to register with the Charities Commission.
The Office for Students (OfS) acts as the principal regulator for universities that are exempt charities.
If you want to claim tax relief on a donation you’ve made to Royal Holloway, please use our:
Tax exempt reference number of XN69536
Our full legal name  - Royal Holloway and Bedford New College
Our preferred name is Royal Holloway, University of London and our address is Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham Hill, Egham, Surrey, TW20 0EX.
The trustees of Royal Holloway and Bedford New College are the members of the University Council.
To download one of our financial statements and find out information on where our money comes from, see Financial Information.
Royal Holloway and Bedford New College Act 1985
The College Statutes

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/senior-leadership-team/julie-sanders:
Professor Julie Sanders
Julie Sanders joined Royal Holloway, University of London as Vice-Chancellor and Principal in October 2022.
She was previously the Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost at Newcastle University (2018-2022) and prior to that was Newcastle's Faculty Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Humanities and Social Sciences (2015-2018).
Before joining Newcastle, she had held leadership positions at the University of Nottingham including Head of the School of English (2010-2013) and then Vice-Provost for Teaching and Learning at the University of Nottingham Ningbo Campus in China (2013-2015).
She started her academic career at Keele University in 1995 having studied English as an undergraduate at Girton College, University of Cambridge and completed an MA and a PhD at the University of Warwick.
Julie is currently a proud trustee of Shakespeare's Globe on London's Bankside (for whom she chairs their Performance and Education Committee).
She is also on the HEPI (Higher Education Policy Institute) Advisory Board.
She has served on steering groups for, among others, Universities UK, Research England, and the Australian Research Council, including the UUK Sustainability and Climate Action Steering Group.
She has undertaken research review exercises in Ireland and Sweden and previously held grants from the AHRC, ESRC, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust.
In 2025, she was appointed as a Deputy Lieutenant by the Lord-Lieutenant of Surrey.
Julie's own research and education interests are in early modern drama and adaptation studies.
She co-edits a series on Early Modern Literary Geographies for Oxford University Press and is currently co-editing Shakespeare's Henry IV Part 1 for Cambridge University Press.
Most recently she has published articles on Shakespeare and Space and on the literary geography of the early modern playhouse.
Pam Kaur
+44 (0)1784 276429

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/senior-leadership-team:
Senior Leadership Team
Vice-Chancellor and Principal
Provost and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global)
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Academic Strategy, Planning & Resources)
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research & Innovation)
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education and Student Experience)
Executive Director of Student Journey
Executive Director of Finance
Executive Director of Business and People Services

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/university-council:
University Council
University Council is the governing body of Royal Holloway and is responsible for overall strategy and policy-making.
Council is responsible for:
It has adopted the Higher Education Code of Governance and Statement of Primary Responsibilities drawn up by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/our-strategy/our-ambitions:
Our ambitions
Our four main strategic ambitions are key to delivering our RH2030s strategy and outline how we will respond to global needs and challenges over the next decade.
These four ambitions will enable us to continue to provide an outstanding educational and student experience and drive social change for a better, more inclusive future for all.
You can learn more about our ambitions below.
We will be a research-intensive u niversity that fosters ambition and innovation.
We will provide our students and colleagues with exceptional opportunities to grow and lead, tackling global challenges through inclusive education and socially impactful research, and developing inclusive leaders for the future.
We will provide tailored learning experiences that combine research and practical knowledge, fostering a supportive community where students and colleagues develop skills, confidence, and values to shape their futures and positively impact the world.
We will celebrate and build on our global community by connecting with our international alumni, and global and local partners across industry and other sectors.
As a university, we will contribute to economic and societal wellbeing through world-leading research and by supporting and enabling our global student community.
We will develop future-facing, inclusive partnerships that enhance our social purpose.
We will utilise our global reach and our status as a University of London federation member to tackle societal challenges and improve the quality, scale, and relevance of opportunities for all those we work with.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/our-strategy/our-enablers:
Our enablers
Our strategic enablers provide essential context and continuity to support our RH2030s strategy and are embedded in all that we do, from our ambitions to everyday activities.
These three strategic enablers will allow us to fulfil our environment and sustainability obligations, deliver infrastructure for the future, and empower our local and global communities, while creating a more inclusive environment for all.
You can find out more about our strategic enablers below.
We will provide adaptable, high-quality learning and research spaces, both physical and virtual, fostering a sustainable and inclusive environment.
We will enable seamless, user-centred digital experiences and an environmentally sustainable infrastructure to support net zero targets and remove outdated spaces and technology.
We will foster a vibrant, diverse, and inclusive community where everyone feels empowered and valued.
We will inspire everyone to reach their potential and have a positive impact on both local and global communities.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/annual-report-2023-2024:
Annual Report 2023-2024

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/senior-leadership-team-and-governance/freedom-of-information/senior-leadership-team-expenses:
Senior Leadership Team Expenses
The University publishes details of reimbursed expenses for members of the Senior Leadership Team.
Expenses are claimed in accordance with the University’s Travel, Subsistence and Personal Expenses Policy and Procedures .
This information will be updated on a quarterly basis.
Julie Sanders, Vice-Chancellor and Principal
Tracy Bhamra, Provost and Pro-Vice Chancellor (Global) - none claimed
Mark Fellowes, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Academic Strategy, Planning & Resources) - none claimed
Ruth Livesey, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research & Innovation) - none claimed
Emma Mayhew, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education and Student Experience) - none claimed
Nick Barratt, Executive Director of Student Journey - none claimed
Stephen McAuliffe, Executive Director of Business and People Services - none claimed
Ying Kay, Executive Director of Finance
Stephen McAuliffe, Executive Director of Business and People Services
Tracy Bhamra, Provost and Pro-Vice Chancellor (Global)
Mark Fellowes, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Academic Strategy, Planning & Resources)
Wyn Morgan, Interim Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education and Student Experience) - none claimed
Nick Barratt, Executive Director of Student Journey
Rachel Burgess, Interim Executive Director of Finance
Rachel Burgess, Interim Executive Director of Finance - none claimed
Julie Sanders, Vice-Chancellor and Principal - none claimed
Julie Sanders, Vice Chancellor and Principal
Mary White, Chief Financial Officer
Julie Sanders, Principal
Ken Badcock, Senior Vice Principal (Academic Strategy and Research)
Tracy Bhamra, Senior Vice Principal (Student & Staff Experience)
James Knowles, Senior Vice Principal (Education)
Paul Layzell, Principal
Mary White, Chief Financial Officer - none claimed
David Ashton, Deputy Principal (Operations) - none claimed
Tracy Bhamra, Senior Vice Principal (Student & Staff Experience) - none claimed
David Ashton, Deputy Principal (Operations)
Ken Badcock, Deputy Principal (Education)
Paul Layzell, Principal - none claimed
Ken Badcock, Senior Vice Principal (ASPR) - none claimed
James Knowles, Senior Vice Principal (Education) - none claimed
Katie Normington, Deputy Principal (Academic) - none claimed
Ken Badcock, Senior Vice Principal (ASPR)
Katie Normington, Deputy Principal (Academic)
Paul Layzell
David Ashton
Katie Normington
Ken Badcock
James Knowles

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/financial-information/value-for-money:
Value for money
We recognise that choosing to study at university is a big investment in terms of money, time and effort.
This is why we are committed to supporting and inspiring students from all backgrounds to thrive academically, socially and personally and to make their time at Royal Holloway as rewarding as possible.
The tuition fee is used for many areas of the student experience.
As well as research-led teaching, the fee covers the cost of a range of services like the library, computer centre, well-being and counselling, teaching support activities, facilities, student support services and employability services.
There are several ways in which we offer value for money at Royal Holloway:
Find out more about our university through key facts and figures on our Facts and Figures page .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/local-community/community-matters:
Community Matters
The Community Matters e-newsletter for the local community, shares information about university news, projects and community initiatives.
Click below for the latest issue of Community Matters:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/local-community/welcome-onto-campus:
Welcome onto campus
Royal Holloway and its campus has a lot to offer the local community from family days out to free concerts and performances.
We welcome local residents to come and explore our 135 acre campus, view our art collection, take in an exhibition or simply sit back and enjoy a coffee in one of our café’s.
At Royal Holloway, we offer events on campus which are available for the general public to attend, together with others that are hosted online.
For further details, please visit our events webpage.
Members of the public are welcome to attend our diverse programme of events which showcase the skills of our talented students and the research being undertaken by our staff.
We also regularly host guest lectures and performances.
Each September Royal Holloway welcomes visitors to Heritage Open Day, which is part of England’s largest festival of history and culture.
Our hugely popular annual Science Festival, has been celebrating science and attracting large audiences for over 20 years.
In December, our Festive Market, with its wide variety of market stalls, festive food and drink and live performances from our students is open to the local community to attend.
Royal Holloway’s renowned Choir offer a free concert every Wednesday lunchtime during term-time and our Department of Music offer other regular music events.
Local residents are welcome to explore our campus, taking one of our campus walks through the 135 acres of wooded grounds or following our self-led tour guide .
The self-guided walk around the arboretum will help you to navigate your way around this special site and learn more about one of the most notable tree collections in Surrey.
With its flamboyant architecture the Grade 1-listed Founder’s Building is one of the most impressive university buildings in the world.
Founder’s is home to the Chapel and Picture Gallery containing what is considered to be one of the finest collections of Victorian Art in a private collection.
The Picture Gallery is open to visitors every Wednesday from 10am to 3pm in the autumn and spring terms.
The Legal Advice Centre provides free legal advice and information for the local community.
If you require free legal advice or information on the following areas of law, please contact us to book an appointment to see a Student Adviser:
Find out how to book an appointment and when the next session is
The Exhibition Space , located in the new striking and sensitively-designed Emily Wilding Davison Building, features exhibitions ranging from digital technology to the university’s art collection.
Our community gym membership gives unlimited access to the 60-station fitness suite and 16 classes.
And our Language’s for All is a programme is open to everyone and offers beginners to intermediate modern language courses in French, German, Italian, Spanish and Mandarin.
You could also pop along to the Student Union markets; every Tuesday there is a food market and each month there is a new general market .
If you’ve got a small business, you could also book a stall .
A number of the cafes on campus are open to visitors; you’ll find Café on the Square in the Emily Wilding Davison Building, Crosslands in the heart of the Founder’s Building and the Boilerhouse Café in a stunning heritage building.
If you’ve run out of any essentials the Union Shop is open every day of the week from 8am to 11pm, or 6pm out of term time.
If you have visitors and need local accommodation we have availability throughout the year in comfortable four and five star campus-rated guest rooms, for stays of up to 14 nights.
During the winter, Easter and summer student holidays visitors can even book rooms in the stunning Grade 1 listed Founder’s Building.
We also have a number of bookable venue options suitable for a variety of occasions; from wedding ceremonies in the historic Founder’s Building, to private dining in the Picture Gallery, to rooms at The Packhorse Pub , Student Union venues or sports facilities .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/local-community/in-the-local-community:
In the local community
Royal Holloway is proud to be part of the local community.
Our students bring many positives to the local area, from award-winning volunteering initiatives and creative community events.
We also support local businesses and organisation and key local activities.
The Community Matters newsletter shares information about community initiatives.
Sign up to receive a digital copy of Community Matters.
One of the ways we encourage students to get involved in the wider community is through volunteering, for which we won The Queen’s Award for Voluntary Service .
The award recognised Royal Holloway Volunteering’s work in helping build strong communities by inspiring students to volunteer and lead projects to support local organisations.
The award was presented by Her Royal Highness The Princess Royal, Chancellor, University of London.
Royal Holloway volunteers provide around 11,000 volunteering hours a year, many in support of local projects and activities ranging from monthly tea parties and weekly sing-alongs for older people, a choir for local people with learning difficulties, technology based school workshops and working with local care homes to support older people interact with the digital age.
Initiatives include clearing woodland, tidying the riverbank and other conservation work, collections for Runnymede foodbank and general tasks such as painting, cleaning and litter picking to help keep the local area clean.
Find out more about our Community Action Partners' Network .
As one of the UK’s top 25 universities Royal Holloway makes a significant contribution to the local economy.
A 2021 independent review of the economic contribution of the university showed that from the £657.1m a year that Royal Holloway contributes to the UK economy, £221.3m a year of that goes to Surrey and an estimated £190.8m to Runnymede, of which £65m came from students.
Royal Holloway also supports employment, generating 7,150 jobs across the UK with more than 3,000 jobs in Surrey and 2,760 jobs locally in Runnymede.
Royal Holloway supports a local events throughout the year including the Egham Royal Show and the Englefield Green Village Fete.
Our academic departments get involved with local schools in a number of ways.
Examples include the Department of Biological Sciences which has helped local schools to learn about, and make homes for, wildlife from beetles to birds and fauna to fungi in their school grounds.
The student volunteering outreach scheme enables student volunteers within the Department of Law and Criminology to support the community by providing legal workshops which are delivered under the supervision of qualified legal professionals or academic members of staff.
You can find out more here.
We have also cemented a partnership with the Reach Foundation to support young people in Feltham.
The partnership seeks to leverage the respective roles played by each institution to create more impact than that which would have been possible alone.
The partnership grew out of a shared focus on widening access.
As Royal Holloway recruits more and more undergraduates from the local community, Feltham was identified as a priority.
One member of our widening access team spends time every week in Feltham, and works closely with careers leads in three local secondary schools.
Mentoring programmes involving Royal Holloway undergraduate ambassadors are planned for 2022 to help young people and their families better understand higher education.
Many of our students choose to continue to live within the wider Egham and Runnymede area after they have graduated.
If you are a graduate of Royal Holloway, find out more about the ongoing support available to you .
Royal Holloway has a number of job vacancies available throughout the year including part time and fixed term contracts.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/local-community/news:
This update shares a high-level summary of progress and priorities on student accommodation, transport and parking, and antisocial behaviour.
"Some of you may already know me from my previous role as Public Engagement Manager at Royal Holloway, but I'm excited to share I have stepped into a full-time role as Head of Engagement and Place."
This autumn, the Estates team at Royal Holloway are providing the local community with updates on the refurbishments to the Chestnuts building and the building of new, accessible pathways.
Discover more about the range of exciting events - open to the public - taking place over the next few months, including talks from University academics, exhibitions magical musical performances.
Find out more about the various services which are operated by Royal Holloway, University of London and available for the local community to make use of.
Royal Holloway has launched a £1.5 million project to support teachers with more inclusive UK political history resources.
Royal Holloway hosted its annual Festival of Volunteering on Wednesday 25 September, during the University’s 2024 Welcome.
BAFTA award-winning British director, Professor Victoria Mapplebeck, will see her smartphone feature, Motherboard, given its UK premiere at the BFI London Film Festival on October 13.
Royal Holloway has launched its new strategy, one which majors on its ambition as a University of Social Purpose to respond to global challenges through the enabling of education and research.
A photography exhibition by a Royal Holloway academic will be displayed at West Middlesex University Hospital from 26 September to 14 October 2024, documenting the experiences of expectant families.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/local-community/developing-our-campus:
Developing our campus
We have been developing our historic estate to provide a 21st century campus that meets the needs of everyone studying and working at our university today and in the future.
We have continued to improve the student experience through a series of investments, including the £57m library and student services centre , as well as our new world-class superconducting nanofabrication facility, SuperFab, and state-of-the-art science building, the Beatrice Shilling Building.
We are now moving forward with several estate development projects, these include the re-opening of the university’s Piggery Gate entrance, a new drone research facility, the refurbishment of the Chestnuts building and the development of Rusham Park student village.
Find out more about the nature of our potential estate development projects .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/legal-advice-centre/volunteer-student-advisers-opportunities:
Volunteer student advisers opportunities
Our student-led Legal Advice Centre offers free initial advice and information to the public in the following areas of law:
We proudly partner with the following law firms and organisations:
For more information, visit our website .
Role Overview
We are seeking 35 volunteer student advisers to join our team of 15 existing legal advisers at our Legal Advice Centre.
Our Legal Advice Clinics are held on Wednesdays from 1:30-4:30 p.m.
You will assist in handling real client matters on a rotating basis during Royal Holloway university’s term time.
While attendance every Wednesday is not required, you must attend all training sessions and be present for client interviews when on the rota.
Student advisers typically handle around six client matters per academic year.
Examples of responsibilities include, but are not limited to:
Work carried out on real client matters at our Legal Advice Centre can count towards your Qualifying Work Experience.
Key Attributes
Training Opportunities
You will receive training on:
Reporting Structure
You will report to Ms Thanh Pham, Director, and Supervising Solicitor of the Legal Advice Centre.
Enhance Your Employability
This role provides valuable experience working alongside our director and professional partners, with opportunities for work placements and potential job offers with our partner law firms.
You will also receive regular one-on-one supervision from our director, offering feedback on your performance and guidance on career progression.
How to Apply
We usually employ student advisers in the Autumn term so keep an eye on this page for your next opportunity to apply.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/prospectuses-and-brochures/download-undergraduate-prospectus:
Download our undergraduate prospectus
Our 2026 undergraduate prospectus is now available to download as a PDF.
Simply fill out the form below to access a digital copy of our prospectus.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/prospectuses-and-brochures/download-postgraduate-prospectus:
Download our postgraduate prospectus
Our 2025 postgraduate prospectus is now available to download as a PDF.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/prospectuses-and-brochures/prospectus-updates:
Prospectus updates
Occasionally we may need to update information printed in our current prospectuses.
Any changes will be listed below.
p.38
Our admissions terms and conditions can be found at royalholloway.ac.uk/admissions-terms-and-conditions
p.9
BSc Management with Digital Innovation is changing its title to BSc Management with Digital Innovation and Analytics
p.
7
Please note BSc Accounting and Finance (+ Year in Business course) is no longer accredited by CPA Australia
p.10
The following courses are no longer available:
11
The following degrees have new titles for 2025 entry:
14
p.16
p.17 The following course is no longer available: BSc Environment and Social Change
18
BSc Health Studies with Integrated Foundation Year is no longer available
19
BA Modern and Contemporary History is no longer available
p.20-21
p.23
24
BA Film Studies with Philosophy is no longer available
26
BA Philosophy & Law is no longer available.
BA Philosophy with History of Art and Visual Culture is no longer available.
28
BA Politics & Law is no longer available.
9
BSc Marketing (N500) is being developed for 2026 entry
BSc Marketing with a Year in Business (N501) is being developed for 2026 entry
Please note that BSc Accounting and Finance (and Year in Business course) is no longer accredited by CPA Australia.
p.32 The following courses are no longer available: MSc Environmental Diagnosis and Management MSc Engineering Geology and Hydrogeology MSc Energy Geosciences
p.38-39
48 The following courses are closed for 2025 entry: MSc Global Futures MSc Past Climate and Environmental Change MSc Sustainability and Management
52
The following courses are closed for 2025 entry: MA Global Health Society, Culture and Behaviour
MSc Global Health Human Health and the Environment
67
MSc Criminology: Research Methods and Applications is suspended for 2025 entry.
80
The following courses are closed for 2025 entry:
European Philosophy (MA)
Political Philosophy (MA)
Gender Studies: Philosophy pathway (MSc)
90
MSc Elections, Campaigns and Democracy is no longer available.
MSc Gender Studies: Global Futures pathway is no longer available

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/biological-sciences/studying-here/masters-by-research:
MSc in Biological Sciences Research
This is a one-year Masters by research programme beginning in September every year.
Students with a good first degree in Biochemistry, Biology or related disciplines are offered the opportunity to develop their research skills (producing and critically evaluating novel data, use of advanced bioinformatics tools and presentation skills).
Our research is formed of three research centres: Healthy Ageing and Molecular Medicine (HAMM) , Sustainable Engineering and Food Security (SEFS) , and Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (BES) .
Students accepted on the program will be trained and supervised by one of our Academic researchers on a single research project (usually selected by the student).
Students will have hands on experience and will be trained in a wide range of advanced research methods.
This supervised project runs for approximately eight months and offers students the opportunity to:
Although this is a research degree, a complementary and inventive taught component will provide training in transferable skills and will be delivered throughout the first two terms.
As part of this, there is a requirement to complete coursework, prepare and present your research to a School audience by means of a poster, as well as a 20 minute oral presentation in the summer term.
All elements of the programme must be passed in order to be able to submit the final project report for assessment in the summer.
Students receive regular, scheduled, feedback on their performance in taught modules, their project plan, literature review/draft introduction (autumn term), draft materials and methods write up (spring term), preparatory oral presentation (spring term); assessed oral presentation (summer term); and draft project write up (summer term).
As with most research degrees, the final write up will be assessed internally and externally at the end of the summer with the final award of a Masters by research degree in the following autumn term.
To find out more contact the Programme Director, Dr Paul Devlin.
Email: Paul.Devlin@rhul.ac.uk .
Tel: 01784 274698
Before applying you will need to identify a supervisor and research project.
A list of over 70 available projects can be found below.
Alternatively, you can suggest your own project but, in such cases, we recommend that you contact your potential supervisor to discuss the project details before applying.
As part of your application, you can list up to four supervisors/projects in order of preference so as to ensure availability.
When you have chosen the supervisors / projects that you are interested in, please apply here.
On the application form, list your chosen supervisor(s) and project title(s) in the “Course Details” tab.
If you have chosen more than one supervisor / project title, please enter them in order of preference, separated by commas.
For project titles, please just use the initial identifier rather than the full title (e.g.
Devlin 1, Riesch 1).
If you have chosen supervisor(s) and project title(s) from our project listings below, then select, “Yes”, when asked, “Is this an advertised research project?” Please just give the address of this webpage when asked where they are advertised.
Also, if you have chosen supervisor(s) and title(s) from our listings below, then there is no need to upload a research proposal so please also select, “Yes”, when asked, “Have you agreed with your supervisor that you do not need to provide a research proposal?”
Applications should be made online before 29th August.
The prospectus can be viewed online .
Advice for international applicants on How to apply for a UK study visa.
See below for a list of projects and supervisors:
Augustin 1 - Biology of ageing: investigating the effect of novel compounds on longevity and functionality
One of the goals of ageing research is to identify compounds that can extend lifespan and/or improve physical and cognitive performance in old age.
The research of the last 20 years revealed a high level of conservation of genetic pathways and biochemical processes that regulate lifespan in organisms as diverse as yeast, worms, flies and humans.
The fruit fly Drosophila, in particular, emerged as a pre-eminent model system for studying changes that occur during both normal and pathological ageing (~75 per cent of the genes that cause disease in humans are also found in the fruit fly!).
The advantages of Drosophila include their relatively low cost, ease of use and a range of powerful tools available for their genetic manipulation.
Our Department recently identified several compounds with possible pro-longevity effects.
The aim of this project is to assess the effect of these compounds during healthy ageing and in various Drosophila models of human diseases.
The initial lifespan studies will be followed by an array of molecular, biochemical, imaging and functional analyses.
Research pages - Dr Hrvoje Augustin
Augustin 2 - Modelling neurodegenerative disorders in Drosophila
We use the fruit-fly Drosophila to study different aspects of human neurodegenerative diseases such as Motor neurone disease, Parkinson’s disease, Frontotemporal dementia and others.
Our main goals are to a) understand the molecular underpinning of these disorders, and b) identify novel molecular targets and therapeutic approaches for future treatments.
The most promising genetic or pharmacological interventions identified in flies can then be tested in suitable mouse disease models.
Bindschedler 1 - How do pathogenic powdery mildew fungi cause disease with no cell death?
Protein-protein interactions and gene regulation weapons for virulence and host susceptibility in cereals, cucurbits and other crops.
Pathogens secrete small proteins called effectors or virulence factors which are important for the successful invasion of the host.
These effectors act by compromising the host immunity.
Powdery mildews are economically important obligate fungal pathogens of many crops, including wheat, barley, pea strawberry or zucchini.
Powdery mildew expresses and secretes many small proteins, most of them of unknown functions, except for the fact that they make the pathogen virulent.
The production of these are regulated at the early stage of infection.
To understand their function, we will be addressing one or some of the following questions:
When and where are they expressed?
And what are the transcription factors regulating them?
Which of the plant host proteins do they target?
Are they species specific?
Are they required for a successful infection?
Molecular and proteomic approaches will be used to investigate the role of powdery mildew effector proteins of this plant pathogen during infection of barley by its powdery mildew.
Research pages - Dr Bindschedler
Bindschedler 2 - in planta RNAi to control diseases caused by obligate fungi in cereal crops
The aim of this project is to develop high output workflow for gene silencing of obligate plant pathogenic fungi with an ultimate goal of controlling plant diseases causing rust and powdery mildews.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a powerful technique to investigate gene function by down regulating the expression of a particular gene in vivo (i.e.
gene silencing).
Large scale RNAi strategies were possible through the design of synthetic siRNAs in mammalian systems or artificial microRNAs in plants but depend on cloning and protoplasts production.
Newer methods to adapt RNAi to plant systems have emerged using either cell permeable peptides to use direct siRNA or oligodeoxynucleotides (ODN) molecules uptake in whole plants or leaves.
These silencing screening tools are instrumental for the designing of resistant genome edited plants.
Bogre 1 - Balancing Assimilates for plant growth, cell proliferation and productivity
Plant growth and crop productivity is intimately linked to the efficiency of light capture and to the balanced storage and utilisation of assimilates.
The evolutionary conserved TOR-S6K signalling pathway functions to adjust the rate of protein synthesis to demands (Deprost et al.
(2007) EMBO Rep 8:864-870.).
Cell proliferation is repressed upon carbon starvation, and we have shown that S6K1 is playing a role in this process (Henriques et al.
(2010) EMBO J 29:2979-93.).
We have also shown that exposure of etiolated seedlings to light rapidly revert starvation and leads to activation of protein synthesis and cell proliferation in shoot apex.
Light has a direct input into cell proliferation through DET1 and COP1 which regulate the balance between transcriptional activator/repressor; E2FB/E2FC (Lopez et al (2008) Plant Cell 20:947-68.).
Cell proliferation adjusted to available sucrose through regulating the expression, translation and protein stability of D-type cyclins and so RBR phosphorylation and leads to the release of E2FB to activate proliferation (Magyar et al (2012) EMBO J.
31:1480-93.).
On the other hand, E2FA forms a stable repressor complex with RBR to maintain the meristem, while E2FC appears to be involved in induction of genes involved in metabolism, light and circadian rhythm (deJager et al.
(2009) PMB 71(4-5):345-65.).
The central question of this project: how carbon balance is connected to the regulation of growth and cell proliferation.
Research pages - Professor Bogre
Bogre 2 - How plant growth is adopted to drought conditions
One major consequence of the global changes in climate is an uneven distribution of freshwater, leading to drought in large areas worldwide.
This has already had a strong influence on agricultural productivity.
Our current understanding of plant adaptation to drought stress is limited to survival mechanisms, but little is known about how mild drought condition restrains plant productivity and yield.
We have discovered a drought induced MAPK signalling pathway that restrains plant growth through multiple mechanisms; i) by regulation auxin transport, ii) regulating cell proliferation.
The overall aim of the proposed research is to identify cell cycle-regulatory targets of the drought-responsive MAPK signaling pathway, and link these to the growth adaptation of plants under drought stress conditions.
To do this we will perform: (ii) computational predictions of MAPK substrates involved in cell cycle regulation, (iii) targeted approaches to test MAPK phosphorylation of key regulators in plant growth regulation, the RBR transcriptional repressor complex.
Brown 1 - Pollinator conservation in London
Urban areas can provide a refuge for wild pollinators, which is essential in the current insect conservation crisis.
However, our understanding of how to optimise urban areas for pollinators is limited.
We are working with Pollinating London Together, a charity supported by the City of London, to research how to maximise the value of inner city areas for pollinators.
Projects in this area could include: what is the impact of honey bees on wild pollinators in the City of London?
Do floral resources (nectar and pollen) and their production vary between pollinator-friendly planting at ground level and on roof gardens (a key component of biodiversity greening measures in cities)?
What is the impact of air pollution on pollinators in urban areas?
What are the best floral resources for pollinators in the City of London?
Projects in this area will involve extensive fieldwork in the city, and should contribute to direct improvements of the urban environment to support pollinators.
Research pages - Professor Brown
Brown 2 - Biology of social insects
The social insects (ants, bees, wasps, and termites) dominate terrestrial ecosystems through their amazing social organisation.
We are interested in understanding the evolutionary biology and social organisation of bumblebees and ants, and are happy to co-develop projects in your area of interest.
Projects in this area involve lab and field work, developing skills in behaviour, ecology, and evolution.
Brown 3 - Parasites, pollinators, and plant chemicals
Pollinators, like bumble bees, are essential to natural ecosystems and human food supplies, but they are facing declines around the world.
Parasites have been suggested to be behind some of these declines.
Consequently, understanding how bees protect themselves against parasites is an important question.
One way that bees might be able to protect themselves is by self-medication – taking advantage of plant-produced chemicals to control parasites.
This project will use bumblebees, a gut parasite, and nectar chemicals to ask if, how, and when bumblebees use plant chemicals to protect themselves against parasites.
This masters project will be associated with an on-going NERC-funded research project that is a collaboration between Royal Holloway and the Royal Botanic Gardens Kew.
Brown 4 - Conservation of bumble bees
Bumble bees provide essential pollination services, and thus are a key component of terrestrial biodiversity.
They’re also beautiful and charismatic animals in their own right!
Unfortunately, bumble bees are threatened by a whole array of anthropogenic factors.
We work on understanding the threats to bumble bees and how they can be mitigated.
If you are interested in research in this area, please be aware that you may need to have a driving licence to access study sites.
Projects in this area will involve field (and possibly lab) work, developing skills in field ecology and animal behaviour.
Host-parasite biology
50% of species are parasites, and understanding how they interact with their host (that is, how they are transmitted, how host’s defend themselves against getting infected, and the impacts that parasite may have) is a key question in ecology and evolution.
We work with a model host-parasite system, the  bumblebee-trypanosome system, to understand how transmission occurs in social systems.
Projects in this area involve lab (and possibly field) work, developing skills in parasitology, microscopy, and possibly molecular ecology.
Castelló y Tickell 1 - Exploring conservation in environmental comedy
While the biodiversity crisis may seem anything but funny, humour can provide unique opportunities to engage people with conservation issues.
This project will focus on exploring the niche of environmental comedy through a systematic search and analysis of common themes relating to conservation science.
Castelló y Tickell 2 - Measuring conservation impacts of human-made reefs
Human-made reefs include include a wide range of structures submerged by people in the ocean.
In order to ensure the widest range of benefits for their use, it is crucial to undertake social and ecological monitoring and set appropriate targets.
This project will focus on 1-2 case studies evaluating human-made reef projects, and derive lessons for future conservation metrics.
Reference:
Castelló y Tickell, S., Sáenz-Arroyo, A., & Milner-Gulland, E.
J.
(2019).
Sunken Worlds: The Past and Future of Human-Made Reefs in Marine Conservation.
BioScience , 69 (9), 725–735.
https://doi.org/10.1093/biosci/biz079
Castelló y Tickell 3 - Creative conservation education with imaginary animals
As eco-anxiety rises and the biodiversity crisis looms, it is crucial to find ways to increase environmental literacy and communicate science without overwhelming young people.
This project will consist of co-designing and evaluating a series of creative workshops with students of various ages, in which they will grapple with the ecology and conservation of an imaginary animal as a learning experience.
The project will be co-supervised by Sofia Castello y Tickell and Becky Thomas.
Chen 1 - Pharmacology of glycine-site agonists at NMDA receptors
This project will characterise a number of novel agonists at NMDA receptors using molecular biology and recording glutamate evoked inward currents from oocytes injected with mutant NMDARs under two-electrode voltage clamp configuration.
The project will involve molecular techniques such as subcloning, site-directed mutagenesis, PCR and in vitro cRNA synthesis, injection of cRNA into Xenopus oocytes and two-electrode voltage clamp electrophysiology.
Research page - Dr Chen
Chen 2 - Examining the consequences of altered RNA editing on neuronal function
RNA editing is a process by which specific nucleotides are modified following gene transcription and disruptions in these processes have been linked to certain neurodegenerative conditions.
We have developed a number of genetic tools to manipulate RNA editing and would like to explore their consequences on cell function.
This project would involve mammalian tissue culture, RNA extraction, cell transfection and RT-PCR.
Cutting 1 - Mucosal vaccines
Work consists of innovative bacterial delivery systems for mucosal vaccination (i.e.
against malaria or TB).
Due to the dynamics of our projects, they are ongoing and subject to change on a regular basis and cannot be specified in advance.
Research pages - Professor Cutting
Devlin 1 - Manipulating the plant phyllosphere microbiome for plant and environmental health
Healthy plants, like all higher organisms, host an extensive commensal microbial community or microbiome.
Non-pathogenic microbes in many cases benefit the host.
In plants, both the leaf microbiome, the phyllosphere, and the root microbiome, the rhizosphere, contain a wide range of bacterial and fungal species, including some that have been shown to play a range of roles in disease prevention.
Changes in the microbiome can, therefore, have important effects on agricultural yield and microbial supplementation offers a real option for biological control of disease, reducing the need for fungicides.
Understanding the rules of establishment of microbial supplements within the microbiome is currently a key knowledge gap, with many potential biological control agents failing to establish in the field under real agricultural conditions.
This project will use a metabarcoding approach to analyse the impact of a range of biotic and abiotic stresses experienced by plants in the field on the phyllosphere microbiome and to try and establish the key elements that define a resilient microbial community.
We will analyse the effects of both environmental and agricultural treatments.
Effects on the microbiome of abiotic factors such as light, drought stress, plant immune responses and even internal plant circadian rhythms will also be tested.
This project will also investigate the potential for probiotic treatment / microbiota transfer to help restore microbial homeostasis using synthetic communities (SynComs) cultured from microbes native to healthy untreated plants.
References:
Vincent et al.
2022, Front in Microbiol.
13:809940)
Gadhave et al.
2018, Microb Ecol 76:741-50
Research pages - Dr Paul Devlin
Devlin 2 - Integration of light signals regulating the plant circadian clock
The greatest advantage of a circadian clock in plants is the accurate prediction of the timing of dawn and dusk.
On the other hand, dawn and dusk also keep the clock in tune with the environment by resetting the clock forward or back slightly each day.
This involves a fine balance and so plants have a range of photoreceptors that interact to convey accurate environmental information.
This project will look at integration of red and blue light signals as their relative importance changes through the course of a day.
It will focus on the interaction of signals from the red light-regulated transcription factors, FHY3 and FAR1, and the blue light-regulated transcription factors HY5 and HYH.
Rhodes et al.
2022, Front Plant Sci.13:862387
Liu et al.
2020, Plant Cell 32(5):1464-78
Li et al., 2011, Nature Cell Biology, 13: 616-622
Devoto 1 - Developing environmentally friendly forms of plant protectants and phytopharmaceuticals
The project aims at elucidating several aspects of the control of plant defences and to identify environmentally friendly forms of plant protectants and phytopharmaceuticals, leading to enhanced crop yields and solutions for animals and human health.
Host processes and components required for the reproduction of plant microbes to uncouple stress-induced growth in plants are studied to open the possibility to engineer crops to gain ‘natural immunity’.
Host processes linked with microbial growth to uncover cellular and metabolic changes associated with their demands will be elucidated This research will also further our understanding of biomass production and its regulation in response to stress to improve cell wall accessibility in biofuel feedstocks.
My projects span from experimental Sciences to BIG DATA dry projects and offer the opportunity to become familiar with approaches and techniques of wide applicability such as high-throughput functional genomics/ bioinformatics, epigenetics, as well as molecular biology and protein engineering and sustainable green technology.
Latest/ relevant References
Krasauskas et al 2023 JXBot 75:180; Vincent et al 2022, BMC Biology 20, 83; Bomer, Perez Salamo et al 2020.
New Phytol 229:2120; Perez Salamo et al 2018 Annual Plant Reviews 2, p.
1-65; Noir et al, 2013, Plant Physiology 161: 1930-1951; Balbi and Devoto, 2008, New Phytologist, 177: 301-318
Research pages - Professor Devoto
Devoto 2 - Novel biotechnological routes to discovering phytopharmaceuticals
Pathways with potential to produce therapeutic drugs will be manipulated with the dual aim of developing a greater understanding of the metabolism involved, that is often related to plant defence, and to develop small molecules or precursors for new medicines.
Success in manipulating the targeted metabolic pathways will be analyzed through a novel functional screening system.
The analysis of diverse plant lines will improve the understanding of key pathways leading to the production of economically important compounds acting as toxins, antimalarial, or antineoplastic drugs in planta.
This project will also contribute to identifying the link between plant growth and responses to stress and will lead to the discovery of regulators with the potential to engineer stress signalling pathways.
Devoto 3 - Analysis of chromatin remodelling increase fitness potential during stress responses
Understanding the mechanism by which chromatin remodelling and/or hormone signalling components work in regulating cell growth in response to the stress, will contribute to increase fitness potential (and biomass or high value chemicals, accumulation) of plants during stress, a critical issue for a sustainable agriculture development.
Using high-throughput functional genomics, the role of newly identified molecular components will be established.
This project will contribute to identifying the link between plant growth and responses to stress and will lead to the discovery of regulators with the potential to engineer stress signalling pathways.
The knowledge accumulated here will be applied to crops.
Fraser 1 - Commercial applications of biochemistry: optimising enzyme production for key industrial assays
Carotenoids are natural pigments responsible for many of the bright orange and yellow colours found in nature.
As such, they have important industrial uses in the food, food and cosmetics sectors as natural colourants.
In plants, they fulfil essential roles in photosynthesis, antioxidant protection and regulation of plant growth.
This has made carotenoid biosynthesis a key herbicide target.
The group has expressed and produced key carotenoid biosynthesis enzymes, including phytoene and zeta-carotene desaturase, in E.
coli.
The aim of the project is to optimise production, purify and then characterise the carotene desaturase enzymes.
This will be done by (i) microbial cultivation, induction, expression, and assessment of proteins on SDS-PAGE, (ii) purification using chromatographic techniques and (iii) determination of activity by in vitro and in vivo complementation.
The project will provide the individual with a fundamental biochemical skillset that has wide-reaching applicability across multiple industrial sectors including agrichemical and pharmaceutical companies which require the monitoring of enzyme inhibition for agrochemicals and novel medicines.
All necessary resources are in place and the laboratory has a long-standing expertise in this area.
A £3000 scholarship towards fees is available for the right candidate.
Research pages - Professor Fraser
Fraser 2 - Engineering fungal cellular factories: unlocking natural potential for bioproduction of high-value compounds
Fungi are capable of sustainable bioproduction of a wide range of commercially relevant compounds without the need for oil-based chemicals.
Improved biosynthesis of these important chemicals can be achieved using mutagenesis.
Carotenoids are one such class of valuable compounds whose uses include aquaculture, cosmetics and preventative treatments for a wide range of health conditions.
Carotenoid biosynthesis is ideally suited to mutagenesis because these compounds are (i) brightly coloured to enable rapid visual screening, (ii) terminal and intermediate products are of high value and (iii) the genetics and biochemistry of the pathway is well characterised.
In this project the mutagens Nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (NNG) and Ethyl methane Sulfonate (EMS) will be used generate a suite of mutants that will be characterised biochemically to identify the carotenoids and their precursors present.
Mutagenesis will be applied to the non-conventional industrial yeasts Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous and Sporobolomyces , which produce astaxanthin and torularhodin respectively, as well as bacterial species, Paracoccus carotinifaciens , which produces valuable ketocarotenoids.
This project will provide the individual with fundamental biochemistry and molecular biology skillsets in an applied, commercially important area.
Biotechnology industries are highly active in this field.
All the resources are in place and the laboratory has a long-standing expertise in this area.
Fraser 3 - Biofactories of the future: sustainable, plant-based solutions to replace unsustainable practices
Plants are an ideal host for the biorenewable production of important compounds as an alternative to traditional, oil-based chemical synthesis or other non-sustainable sources.
Plants are low input, low energy, sustainable and can make use of existing infrastructure.
One class of compounds ideally suited to production in plants are isoprenoids, many of which have bioactive properties and are of high value.
Examples included: squalene, a cosmetic ingredient and important vaccine adjuvant, astaxanthin, a potent antioxidant and food colorant, as well as beta-carotene which is provitamin A.
Squalene has historically been produced from the destructive harvesting of shark livers, harming deep sea shark populations and their specialised ecosystems, while astaxanthin is usually chemically synthesised from petrochemical feedstocks.
The laboratory has made bio-based systems producing these compounds.
The proposed experimental project will characterise these novel lines biochemically and at the molecular level to understand how these molecules are formed.
In addition, new down-stream processing approaches, with improved sustainability credentials, will be deployed.
The project will provide the individual with a fundamental biochemistry and molecular biology skillset in an applied subject.
Biotechnological industries are highly active in this field with astaxanthin and squalene in high demand.
All resources are in place and the laboratory has a long-standing expertise in the area.
Fraser 4 - Exploiting enzymes for sustainable production of medical and industrial compounds
Carotenoids and sterols are hugely important classes of commercially relevant compounds with applications in health and medical science, aquaculture and cosmetic industries.
The key enzymes controlling the biosynthesis of these compounds in plants are phytoene synthase and squalene synthase respectively, the latter producing the leading vaccine adjuvant.
The group has expressed and produced these enzymes in E.
coli .
The aim of this project is to optimise production of, purify and characterise these crucial enzymes.
This will be done by (i) microbial cultivation, induction, expression, and assessment of proteins by SDS-PAGE, (ii) purification using chromatographic techniques and (iii) determination of activity by in vitro and in vivo complementation.
The project will provide the individual with a fundamental biochemical skillset that has wide-reaching applicability across multiple industrial sectors including pharmaceutical companies which require the monitoring of enzyme activities and cell free enzyme solutions.
Fraser 5 - Leveraging next-generation technologies to explore critical processes in tomato ripening
During tomato ripening, chloroplasts transition into the pigment storage plastid type, chromoplasts.
This is accompanied with a broad spectrum of ripening associated changes including the rapid increase in carotenoid pigment levels.
Through the modulation of carotenoid biosynthesis the group has been able to alter these structures, initiating artificial chromoplast formation from chloroplasts.
In the present project the researcher will investigate this phenomenon in more detail to understand the underlying biochemical and molecular mechanisms associated with this process.
To achieve this goal chloroplasts and those transitioning to chromoplasts will be isolated.
Next-generation technologies will be employed to determine metabolite changes as well as proteomics to track changes in key proteins involved in chromoplast formation.
The project will provide the individual with a fundamental biochemical skillset that has wide-reaching applicability across multiple industrial sectors such as the agribiotech industry investigating nutritional quality in fruits.
Fraser 6 - Applying biochemistry: how is fibrillin involved in plant pigment production?
Pigment accumulation in plants frequently occurs in specialised organelles called chromoplasts.
Within chromoplasts are structures called plastoglobuli which were believed to be simple lipid storage components.
However more recently, the identification of metabolic enzymes within plastoglobuli has led to several postulated roles in metabolism.
Plastoglobuli have also been shown to contain a multigene family of structural proteins termed Fibrillins.
An abundant protein from the Fibrillin family, has been expressed in E.
The aim of this project is to now optimise production, purify and characterise this Fibrillin to aid in the elucidation of its role in pigment accumulating chromoplasts.
This will be done by (i) microbial cultivation, induction, expression, and assessment of proteins by SDS-PAGE, (ii) purification, performed using chromatographic techniques, and (iii) carotenoid binding, investigated by in vitro and in vivo complementation.
The project will provide the individual with a fundamental biochemical skillset that has wide-reaching applicability across multiple industrial sectors where protein purification and binding assays are vital to elucidate metabolite and drug interactions, for example.
Garcia Perez 1 - Engineering seed synthetic microbiome communities to enhance seed germination of native trees to the UK
Plants rely on a diverse assemblage of micro-organisms (microbiome) to fulfil their life cycle, but we still ignore the composition, diversity, and function of the seed microbiome.
This is a critical knowledge gap because seeds are the most vulnerable stage in the plant demographic cycle.
As a result, low seed germinability is the main factor hampering rewilding, i.e., forest expansion over formerly managed areas depleted of vegetation.
Rewilding of plant communities is highlighted by the IPBES as the main nature-based solution to halt biodiversity decline and mitigate the impacts of climate change.
This project aims to test whether seed germinability of trees relies on the species composition of the seed microbiome, specifically on seed bacteria.
community.
Specifically, we will test if animal-dispersed seeds secure bacterial communities that enhance seed germination from the guts of their mutualistic frugivores, in turn providing most suitable conditions to germinate and establish successfully.
The main goals main goals are: (i) Describing the species composition and function of the seed microbial communities -based on 16S rDNA- for tree species (N~35) native to UK; (ii) Elucidating whether seed microbiomes impact seed germinability and, if so, identifying the combination of micro-organisms that attain higher germinability and recruitment under different simulated environmental conditions, including drought; (iii) Investigating the role of frugivores in shaping the composition and function of the seed microbiome; (iv) Engineering synthetic seed microbial communities that enhance seed germination and long-term establishment of native trees.
Overall, this study will provide scientific evidence to initiate forest improved regeneration trials based seeds coated with synthetic seed microbial communities to trigger forest recovery (knowledge transfer).This project will address the following skill gaps: (i) Designing seed germination trials across multiple tree species native to the UK; (ii) Optimize and apply DNA extraction protocols (bacterial 16S rDNA); (iii) Apply statistical tools to characterize and compare seed microbial communities; and (iv) Learn how to engineer seed microbial communities; v) Plotting informative figures summarizing most relevant results (to acquire some basic knowledge on infographics); and vi) Draft a scientific manuscript aimed to publish main relevant results of this project.
Research page - Dr Garcia
Garcia Perez 2 - Are mountain passes higher in the tropics?
A plant ecology approach
Daniel Janzen hypothesized that the breadth of the thermal niche of organisms determines their distribution ranges as well as the turnover of species across altitudinal gradients (Janzen 1967).
This predicts that narrow climatic variation of the tropics determines narrow thermal niches of tropical species, which might hamper their expansion across altitudinal or latitudinal gradients.
This hypothesis has been confirmed for insects, birds, mammals, and lizards, but we still ignore whether it also applies to plants.
This knowledge gaps hampers our understanding of plant responses to increasing warming conditions and limit our ability to forecast their ability to persist in a changing world.
This project aims to test the hypothesis that tropical species show narrower thermal niches compared to non-tropical species.
By doing so we will investigate the role of thermal niche in driving plant responses to increasing warming.
We will use a combination of data bases to depict the breath of the climatic niche and to gather ancillary data on key functional traits such as dispersal and pollination mode, lifespan, phenology, and phenotypic traits.
This project will address the following skill gaps: (i) Designing and applying a pilot study to identify and avoid common statistical pitfalls (pseudorreplication, zero inflated data, low statistical power, phylogenetic bias); (ii) Based on the feedback from the pilot study, defining a data frame with the suitable number and type of variables and records to be analysed with R; (iii) Gathering data from a combination of data bases (books, guides, climate data bases, and online repositories); and (iv) Applying multivariate tools to depict and compare the breath of the climate niche of plants and phylogenetic regressions to identify main functional traits driving plant responses; v) Plotting informative figures summarizing most relevant results (to acquire some basic knowledge on infographics); and vi) Draft a scientific manuscript aimed to publish main relevant results of this project.
Garcia Perez 3 - Engineering seed synthetic microbiome communities to enhance seed germination of native trees to the UK
Overall, this study will provide scientific evidence to initiate forest improved regeneration trials based seeds coated with synthetic seed microbial communities to trigger forest recovery (knowledge transfer).
This project will address the following skill gaps: (i) Designing seed germination trials across multiple tree species native to the UK; (ii) Optimize and apply DNA extraction protocols (bacterial 16S rDNA); (iii) Apply statistical tools to characterize and compare seed microbial communities; and (iv) Learn how to engineer seed microbial communities; v) Plotting informative figures summarizing most relevant results (to acquire some basic knowledge on infographics); and vi) Draft a scientific manuscript aimed to publish main relevant results of this project.
Harvey 1 - How does connection to nature affect science attainment in school pupils
This Masters is part of the Royal Holloway Schools’ Biodiversity Project and will investigate how working with children in their school grounds affects their connection to nature and science attainment, particuarly in biology but also more generally.
You will visit children weekly and work with them on projects to monitor species or create habitats in their grounds.
The ability to work with children and to handle a wide range of species is essential.
You will learn social science surveying and analysis techniques as well as identification, surveying and data collection techniques suited to citizen science projects centred around children.
Research pages - Deborah Harvey
Harvey 2 - The effect of light and sound pollution on urban wildlife
This Masters will investigate how light and sound pollution affect urban species,  measuring changes in their behaviour using various survey methods.
Working across a range of urban landscapes,  you will need to enjoy fieldwork and have good identification skills and a keen interest in urban ecology, as well as behavioural biology.
This project is suitable for a wide range of diurnal and nocturnal species.
Jansen 1 - Models for social interaction in microbes
Microbes interact in various ways, for instance they can release antibiotics to stave off competitors, or they can release substances which help other microbes take up iron from the environment.
In this way basic ecological interactions, such as competition or mutualisms can be realised in very simple organisms.
This project aims to develop simple models for the interaction of microbes.
Once such a model is formulated and analysed, it can then be used to study the evolution of microbes in a theoretical fashion.
This project will concentrate on the production of siderophores, which allow microbes to interact through the production of a public good.
This is a theoretical project that will require some experience and interest in mathematical modelling.
Research Pages - Professor Jansen
Jansen 2 - Models for social interaction between fungi and plants
Fungi interact with plants in various ways, for instance as pathogen, but they can also engage in a mutualistic interaction through the formation of mycorrhizas.
They can release antibiotics to stave off competitors, or they can release substances which help other microbes take up iron from the environment.
In this way basic ecological interactions, such as antagonisms or mutualisms can be realised.
This project aims to develop simple models for the plant-fungal interaction of microbe.
This is a theoretical project that will require some experience and interest in mathematical modelling
Research pages - Professor Jansen
Koricheva 1 - Why not all deciduous trees shed their leaves in winter?
The curious case of marcescence
Several deciduous tree species retain all or some senesced leaves on branches through much of winter, a phenomenon called leaf marcescence.
This project will explore the frequency and phenology of marcescence in several tree species as well as its potential functional significance.
It has been proposed that benefits of retaining dead leaves over winter might include protection of buds from frost, deterrence of herbivores, provision of overwintering habitat for predators such as spiders, or improvement of nutrient resorption.
The project will test some of the above hypotheses.
Heberling, J.
M., and Muzika R.M.
(2023).
Not all temperate deciduous trees are leafless in winter: the curious case of marcescence.
Ecosphere 14: e4410.
Pearse, I.S.
et al.
(2020) Generalising indirect defence and resistance of plants.
Ecology Letters 23: 1137-1152.
Research pages - Professor Koricheva
Koricheva 2 - Do managed honeybees have negative effects on wild bees?
Concern has arisen that managed honeybees may have unintended negative impacts on native wild bees, which are important pollinators in both agricultural and natural ecosystems.
These negative effects may arise because of competition for floral and nesting resources, changes in plant communities, including the spread of exotic plants and decline of native plants, and transmission of pathogens.
This project will review the evidence of effects of managed honeybees on wild bees through a meta-analysis, which is a set of statistical methods designed to combine the results from independent studies on the same topic.
Training in meta-analysis will be provided.
Iwasaki, J.
M.
and K.
Hogendoorn (2022).
Mounting evidence that managed and introduced bees have negative impacts on wild bees: an updated review.
Current Research in Insect Science 2: 100043.
Mallinger RE, Gaines-Day HR, Gratton C (2017) Do managed bees have negative effects on wild bees?
A systematic review of the literature.
PLoS ONE 12: e0189268
Wojcik V.A.
(2018).
Resource competition between honey bees and wild bees: is there clear evidence and can we guide management and conservation?
Environmental Entomology 47: 822–833.
Leubner 1 - Molecular and hormonal mechanisms underpinning seed technologies applied to crop, flower and vegetable seeds by industry
The aim of this project is to determine the mechanisms which are underlying seed enhancement technologies to achieve rapid and uniform germination and seedling establishment.
These technologies include seed priming, sorting, pelleting and the inclusion of various additives.
Examples for the effects include the release of seed dormancy of vegetable and flower seeds, the control of aging processes during sugarbeet and onion seed storage and the benefits of priming to improve abiotic stress responses and vigour during germination and pre-emergence seedling growth (see projects on our PURE website below).
The underlying mechanisms include regulation by altered hormonal contents and signalling and epigenetic changes leading to distinct transcriptome expression patterns.
Very little is known about these mechanisms and therefore the optimisation of the seed enhancement technologies and their application to specific crop species is hampered.
In the project we will investigate crop seed enhancement technologies with modern molecular, biochemical, microscopical and biophysical methods to understand how embryo growth, dormancy release and germination speed, uniformity and vigour are improved.
This project is at the interface of fundamental and applied seed biology and engineering.
For enquiries about Projects in the Leubner laboratory, please contact Prof Gerhard Leubner .
Research pages - Professor Leubner
Project pages 'The Seed Biology Place'
Leubner 2 - Molecular mechanisms of gene expression during weed seed dormancy, germination and persistence in the soil seed bank
The sustainable intensification of food production necessary to feed the world’s growing population will only be achievable if crop harvest losses due to heat stress and competition with weeds are minimised.
About ten per cent of crop production is currently lost to weeds and this loss would be far greater without the use of herbicides.
However, the continued effectiveness of herbicide technology is threatened by the rapid advance of weed biotypes that are resistant to herbicides.
The problem of effective weed control is most severe in annual field crop systems and with annual weeds which emerge at the same time as the crop seedlings.
These problem weeds owe their success, at least in part, to the formation of large and persistent soil seed banks.
Thus there is considerable potential for novel weed control solutions through engaging a deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms of weed seed germination and survival.
In the project we will focus on hormone-related mechanisms which mediate the environmental responses of weed seeds.
Seed hormones will be quantified and the expression of corresponding genes analysed in the seeds of a variety of noxious weeds and in response to temperature as environmental factor.
This project is in collaboration with Syngenta and at the interface of fundamental and applied seed science.
Leubner 3 - Biopriming as a seed technology and its impacts on germination and seedling vigour
This project aims to investigate the interactions between bacterial endophytes and the seeds of high yielding crop species.
Biopriming is a priming technology whereby seeds are hydrated and inoculated with a beneficial organism.
Seed priming to modify hydration has been found to have several physiological benefits in the vegetable seed market such as increasing the uniformity and speed of germination.
Biopriming however, builds upon this principal with the addition of a microbial inoculant.
These are typically microorganisms that may confer benefits to the growing plant such as greater access to macro and micro-nutrients or host plant defence.
This project will work with a specific nitrogen fixing bacterial endosymbiont and consider the impacts that seed inoculation with this bacteria on germination, seedling establishment and seed hormones on a range of plant species that exist in different agroecological niches.
This project will utilise modern microbiological, microscopical, biochemical and hormone quantification techniques and is likely to work closely with industry partners, with the possibility of a short industry placement.
Lopez 1 - Genes involved in chloroplast biogenesis
Leaves are light-capturing organs, “biological solar panels”, whose “solar cells” are the subcellular organelles, chloroplasts.
Chloroplast build-up is essential  for the photosynthetic production that drives our entire biosphere, and that ultimately produces our food.
Chloroplasts are built primarily while meristematic cells differentiate into leaf mesophyll cells.
Through mutant screens in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana , we have identified several genes whose function is essential for chloroplast biogenesis, or whose dysfunction rescues prior defects in chloroplast development (positive elements or negative regulators of chloroplast biogenesis, respectively).
In this project (several are parallel) you will focus on one of these genes, confirm its identity and examine potential mechanisms of action, through examination of molecular and cellular phenotypes of the mutants and through generation of Arabidopsis plants with elevated levels of the selected gene, or examining plants in which we have already modified the action of one of those genes in rice, one of the world’s most important crops.
Research pages - Professor Lopez
Malerba 1 - Gene therapy for Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD)
OPMD is a rare gain-of-function autosomal dominant, degenerative muscle disease that usually presents in the fifth decade of life.
OPMD is due to mutations in the poly(A)-binding protein nuclear-1 (PABPN1) gene that codes for a protein that has a pivotal role in many biological pathways.
We demonstrated that a gene therapy application based on silencing all endogenous PABPN1 and its replacement with normal protein can ameliorate the disease when delivered locally in the affected muscles.
This approach is based on using a single viral vector that carries both the silencing and the replacement features.
We are testing now different approaches where the protein inhibition is provided by destructive exon skipping where antisense therapeutics are designed to send out of frame the transcript and then produce a non-functional mRNA.
This is expected to generate a safer, controllable approach that may allow the systemic treatment of the disease.
It is also important to test treatments that could provide additive or synergistic effects to a gene therapy application.
One of the features of OPMD is muscle atrophy, so we are testing strategies to increase muscle size and improve muscle strength.
In all of my projects, students have the opportunity to learn several techniques that are widely used in laboratories engaged in biomedical research, including: in vitro cell culture, molecular biology (e.g.
Western blot, RT-PCR and quantitative PCR), histology (cryosectioning, stainings, immunofluorescence) and microscopy.
Research pages – Dr Alberto Malerba
Malerba 2 - Modulation of expression of the Ribosome Proteins L3 and L3L to enhance muscle strength
We recently studied a very poorly characterized ribosome protein named Ribosomal protein L3-like (RPL3L), and we observed that its downregulation, obtained by delivering short harping RNA (shRNA) designed to target specifically RPL3L transcript, significantly increases muscle force in models of muscular dystrophy and muscle damage.
We are now combining RPL3L downregulation with clinically relevant genetic strategies that we have developed in the laboratory, to counteract Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) in order to improve their functional efficacy.
McEvoy 1 - Sociality of antibiotic resistance in E.
coli
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a growing threat to public health, and antibiotic-resistant Escherichia coli is responsible for more AMR-associated deaths than any other pathogen.
E.
coli cells which express a b -lactamase enzyme can protect susceptible cells from b -lactam antibiotics by removing them from the environment.
In this microbiological project you will use a highly-automated bioreactor to investigate the social aspects of antibiotic resistance in E.
coli co-cultures, extending our work by using clinically relevant b -lactamase inhibitors and morbidostat growth modes.
Our long-term objective is to inform therapeutic practice and improve infection outcomes.
Reference: Amanatidou, E.; Matthews, A.
C.; Kuhlicke, U.; Neu, T.
R.; McEvoy, J.
P.; Raymond, B., Biofilms facilitate cheating and social exploitation of β-lactam resistance in Escherichia coli.
npj biofilms and microbiomes 2019, 5 , 36.
Research pages - Professor James McEvoy
Papworth 1 - Using camera traps, automated behavioural experiments and machine learning to understand how garden birds respond to humans
Human presence causes changes in animal behaviour which can impact species survival – for example scaring birds away from nests will reduce the food available to their offspring, threatening their survival.
As more humans use spaces with wild animals, understanding behavioural responses to human presence can help predict which species are likely to be most impacted, and how effects can be mitigated.
Well-supported theories can help that understanding and allow generalised predictions to be made across species and sites.
However, competing theories of animal responses to humans are tested for specific species and locations and rarely contrasted, due to the intensive fieldwork required.
This project is part of a larger study defining a new, more generalisable behavioural hypothesis which can be used across a variety of human-wildlife interactions and animal species using novel field and analysis frameworks.
This MSc project will use camera traps and playbacks of sounds to wood pigeons and other garden birds to understand how they respond to human noise.
The camera-trap experiments will be conducted in garden sites on an urban-to-rural gradient.
Sites will be identified in London, on campus, and in the greater Surrey area, including areas close to farmland and hunting clubs.
Camera traps are a great way to collect data, but they can collect so much it makes data processing very time consuming, so we will use machine learning to identify species and classify their behaviour.
The project will require fieldwork in the UK, and the ideal candidate would have a driving licence and access to a car.
The first data collection is planned for early October.
You will gain experience in experimental design, camera trapping field techniques and the use of machine learning to process animal behaviour data.
Useful reading:
Ungulates’ Behavioral Responses to Humans as an Apex Predator in a Hunting-Prohibited Area of China.
Animals, 13(5), 845.
https://doi.org/10.3390/ani13050845
Palmer et al.
(2022).
BoomBox: An Automated Behavioural Response (ABR) camera trap module for wildlife playback experiments.
Methods in Ecology and Evolution, 13, 611–618.
https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13789
Suraci et al.
(2017).
A new Automated Behavioural Response system to integrate playback experiments into camera trap studies.
Methods in Ecology and Evolution 8:957-964 https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.12711
Widén et al.
Playbacks of predator vocalizations reduce crop damage by ungulates, Agriculture.
Ecosystems & Environment 328: 107853.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2022.107853
Riesch 1 - Examining the processes that generate, maintain, and threaten biological diversity
Research in my group addresses one of the fundamental questions in evolutionary ecology: what are the ecological and evolutionary processes that generate, maintain, and constrain/threaten biological diversity?
Using integrative and highly collaborative approaches, we try to answer the questions of (i) how and why organisms diversify phenotypically, (ii) what ecological and evolutionary forces shape reproductive barriers important in facilitating an initial reduction in gene flow between diverging populations, and (iii) what role human-induced environmental change has on biodiversity in general, and the stability of population differentiation among diverging populations in particular.
Our main study system, currently, are livebearing fishes of the family Poeciliidae.
Here, we work on invasive populations with a focus on trying to identify the mechanisms that facilitate invasion success.
We also work on fish diversification along environmental gradients (including temperature, salinity, oxygen availability or resource availability gradients), and this includes work on fish from extreme environments (e.g., gradients of toxicity and pollution).
There are always on-going and potential research projects available to MSc students in my lab, so for further information please contact me ( rudiger.riesch@rhul.ac.uk ).
Gomes Silva G, E Cyubahiro, T Wronski, R Riesch, A Apio & M Plath (2020) Water pollution affects fish community structure and alters evolutionary trajectories of invasive guppies (Poecilia reticulata).
Science of the Total Environment 730: 138912
Santi F, R Riesch, J Baier, M Grote, S Hornung, H Jüngling, M Plath & J Jourdan (2020) A century later: adaptive plasticity and rapid evolution contribute to geographic variation in invasive mosquitofish.
Science of the Total Environment 726: 137908
Riesch R, RA Martin & RB Langerhans (2020) Multivariate character suites across multifarious environments: integrated responses of morphology and life history in Bahamas mosquitofish.
Oikos 129(4): 480-492
Gao J, F Santi, L Zhou, X Wang, R Riesch & M Plath (2019) Geographical and temporal variation of multiple paternity in invasive mosquitofish (Gambusia holbrooki, Gambusia affinis).
Molecular Ecology 28(24): 5315-5329
Research pages - Dr Riesch
Seneviratne 1 - Identification of potential medicinal plant compounds to prevent cardiovascular disease driven by air pollution
Globally 8 million premature deaths each year are linked to air pollution, of which 50% are from cardiovascular disease.
Exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEP) for example, is associated with accelerated atherosclerosis - the buildup of fat-rich plaques constricting arteries, precipitating potentially fatal cardiovascular events such as strokes or heart attacks.
Until air quality improves through tighter regulations, short-term mitigation strategies are needed particularly for vulnerable patients and populations exposed to the greatest levels of air pollution.
One potential option is dietary interventions using naturally derived anti-inflammatory compounds such as Sulforaphane from Broccoli and Curcumin from Turmeric which are known to reduce excess inflammation in blood vessels.
In this project, you will use a human macrophage cell line to test whether the anti-inflammatory effect of natural compounds is sufficient to dampen inflammation triggered by common air pollutants such as DEP.
You will learn cell culture techniques, PCR and immunohistochemistry.
Your findings will inform future research into dietary interventions to safeguard public health.
Research pages - Dr Seneviratne
Seneviratne 2 - Identifying key inflammatory markers induced by air pollution in the artery wall
While it is believed pollutants induce inflammation, which drives the development of atherosclerosis, we still do not fully understand the immune cell responses to pollutants.
In this project, you will take tissues sections from the arteries of mice exposed to DEP or saline as a control and perform immunofluorescence staining for key markers of cellular inflammation.
You will then observe differences in inflammatory marker expression between the two groups by confocal microscopy.
Your findings will inform future research into key inflammatory markers of interest in response to air pollution.
Sharma 1 - Epidemiology of global stroke in South Asians
You will be based in a group headed by a clinical academic.
Stroke is the third commonest cause of death in the UK.
WHO estimates that by 2050 around 80% of all stroke will be in India and China.
Our group has amassed the largest database of South Asian stroke in the world.
We have data from UK, India and the Middle East.
It is expected that these projects will lead to publications in major international peer review journals.
This project will allow students to analyse this extensive database to search for interactions between stroke and established risk factors
Research pages - Professor Sharma
Sharma 2 - Risk factors in South Asian stroke
This project will allow students to analyse this extensive database to search for novel risk factors in South Asians and compare and contrast such factors with stroke in Caucasians.
Sharma 3 - Designing a new strategy for ‘five-a-day’ intake
You will be based in a group headed by a clinical academic and be supervised by two clinicians.
The 5-a-day campaign was launched by the UK Government to ensure that the population eats at least five fruit and vegetables per day.
Research suggests that those that do this have a lower risk of cardiovascular disease.
However, the evidence is that most people do not remember how many of their 5-a-day they have eaten.
We propose to develop a new colour based flag strategy for each meal to replace the 5-a-day slogan.
This work potentially has large and important clinical and public health implications.
Snowden 1 - Exploring public perception of artificial intelligence in medicine and science.
Artificial intelligence is permeating all aspects of our lives and societies, and their potential to change the way in which we live is almost limitless.
In this project we aim to explore the public's perceptions of artificial intelligence (AI) in science.
As AI increasingly plays a significant role in various medical and scientific disciplines, understanding how the general population perceives its integration and impact is crucial.
The study will employ a range of methods focused around surveys distributed to a diverse sample population to provide statistical analysis and identify broader trends, to gather comprehensive insights into how people perceive the efficacy and ethical considerations of applying AI.
Some of the key areas to be explored are: Trust and Confidence: Investigating the level of trust the public has in AI-driven medical diagnosis and scientific outcomes.
Perceived Benefits: Assessing the perceived benefits of AI including enhanced efficiency, and accuracy of results.
Ethical Considerations: Examining ethical concerns related to AI implementation in scientific research and clinical medicine, including data privacy, bias, and accountability.
The research findings will provide valuable insights for scientists, policymakers, and educators to develop strategies for engaging with the public about AI in science and medicine effectively.
By addressing concerns, promoting transparency, and highlighting the benefits, this research aims to bridge the gap between scientific advancements powered by AI and public understanding and acceptance, ultimately fostering a more inclusive and informed society.
Research pages – Dr Stuart Snowden
Snowden 2 - Modelling the role of functional metabolism in neurodegeneration
Metabolomics has played a significant role in bridging the gap between genotype and phenotype.
Whilst metabolic architecture (i.e.
the order of reactions in a metabolic pathway) is well known and highly conserved even between disparate phenotypes, metabolism is highly dynamic and it is the flow of substrate through metabolic pathways that is responsible for determining metabolic function.
Therefore, simply knowing the relative metabolite composition of two groups is insufficient to provide a detailed understanding of metabolism for example, higher abundance of a given metabolite could be the result of increased production or reduced breakdown with the two causes having very different biological implications.
Fluxomics approaches provide a dynamic readout of metabolic activity by introducing an isotopically labelled substrate into a system and mapping the ‘diffusion’ of isotopic label through the metabolic network.
Traditionally, these approaches have used 13C-labelled glucose however this is expensive limiting its utility, in this project we will use this in conjunction with deuterium oxide to comprehensively map functional metabolism to identify novel targets for therapeutic intervention in C9orf72 drosophila melanogaster which is a common genetic cause of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
This project will provide training in fly handling, microscopy, mass spectrometry and advanced data analysis.
Snowden 3 - Early life nutrition and lifelong health: elucidating the role of nutritional programming on metabolic resilience.
Malnutrition is often synonymous with severe under nutrition, however, the term encompasses any instance where poor diet negatively impacts health.
Whilst usually considered to be a problem exclusive to the developing world, there is growing evidence that malnutrition is also a major public health problem in wealthy nations, with individuals consuming sufficient calories but insufficient vitamins to efficiently grow, function and fight disease.
Traditionally seen as an acute problem, there is growing acceptance that exposure to malnutrition in early life (pre 5 years of age) not only impacts the individual at the time of exposure but will negatively affect their health for the rest of their life.
Poor nutrition has been shown to significantly affect metabolism with shifts in metabolic pathways involved in energy metabolism as well as both anabolism and catabolism being reported.
However, to date there has been no work looking at the severity of early life malnutrition required to trigger metabolic reprogramming, and negatively affect whole life health.
The aim of this project is to explore the relationship between metabolism, early life malnutrition and whole life health.
We will do this using drosophila models to determine how different forms of malnutrition, including undernutrition, overnutrition and specific vitamin insufficiencies effect life expectancy, mobility and cognition and subsequently identify the metabolic anomalies that drive these changes.
Soloviev 1 - Engineering of Protein-A derivatives for biotechnology applications
Staphylococcal Protein A (Protein A or "SPA") is a 42 kDa virulence factor produced by Staphylococcus aureus in its cell wall.
SPA is well known for its ability to bind IgG molecules with very high affinity.
It is widely used in biotechnology applications, such as antibody capture, immobilisation or purification to name just a few.
SPA has been used widely in Life Sciences, but it has a few serious limitations.
SPA recognises and binds IgGs of many different isotopes, but not all.
For example native SPA does not recognise or binds human IgG3 and a few other IgGs.
This severely limits its application range.
This project aims to engineer SPA analogues capable of binding human IgG3.
This research has huge commercial implications.
MSc projects are offered in the areas of protein engineering, molecular biomarkers of cancer, and nanoparticles and their applications.
Applicants are invited to contact the supervisor, to discuss their research interests and project preferences.
Research pages – Dr Soloviev
Soloviev 2 - Molecular biomarkers of cancer
This project aims to address critical research gaps in the detection and treatment of cancer and will aid the development of molecular screening approaches.
The overall project aims includes the identification of novel biomarkers suitable for the early detection and stratification of cancer and markers to assist prognosis and treatment.
Key objectives of this research include (1) Prediction of up- and down-regulated genes associated with different stages of cancer; (2) Identification of subsets of genes and proteins where the pattern of their expression levels could be used as molecular signature for the early stages of cancer, as score classifiers to assist prognosis, to evaluate drug resistance and to predict recurrence; (3) Developing of analytical molecular assays for quantitative detection of the selected markers extracted from physiological materials (for example but not limited to tissues, blood, urine or saliva samples).
Such assays may rely on immunoassays, quantitative liquid chromatography approaches, qPCR or their combinations.
Training in bioinformatics methods and relevant laboratory techniques will be provided.
Soloviev 3 - Biologically active lipopeptides for drug delivery
Members of the Bacillus genus, particularly the "Bacillus subtilis group", are known to produce amphipathic lipopeptides with biosurfactant activity.
This includes the Surfactin, Fengycin and Iturin peptides that have been associated with antibacterial, antifungal, and anti-viral properties.
These peptides can form micelles (small self-assembled complexes of just a few nanometres in diameter) that might affect bioavailability of these peptides.
This project aims to investigate if such micelles could be used for encapsulating molecular therapeutics, and how such micelles are affected by primary bile acids synthesised in human liver, and by secondary bile acids that are formed in human intestine by intestinal bacteria.
Training in relevant analytical laboratory techniques will be provided.
Soloviev 4 - Protein engineering: stimuli-responsive proteins
Proteins are responsible for a vast range of biological functions.
The ability to modify proteins in a rational manner yielded advanced therapeutics which top the list of the most commercially successful medicines (1).
Yet we are only beginning to learn how to exploit the directed protein evolution (2) and how to engineer proteins or other biopolymers with the pre-determined structure or functions.
One of the most interesting yet least developed areas of protein engineering research concerns the development of stimuli-sensitive molecules for therapeutic, biotechnology and materials applications.
The key aim of this research PhD project is to create molecular systems capable of changing their physical or molecular properties in response to external stimuli such as ultrasound, thermal, mechanical, chemical or direct electric stimulation.
In particular, we aim to develop and test thermo-responsive proteins capable of self-assembly in a sequence-specific manner and controllable disassembly in response to thermal stimuli.
Another two systems under development are pH and voltage sensitive proteins.
For example, we utilise self-assembling neuronal SNARE proteins as a template to devise novel stimuli-responsive proteins with tuneable sensitivity to environmental stimuli.
Alternatively, the sensitivity is added to functional proteins by combining them with magnetic or elastic nanoparticles, by adding light-excitable or chemically-modifiable groups and their combinations to yield highly tuneable stimuli-responsive composite biomaterials suitable for a variety of life science and therapeutic applications.
Soloviev 5 - Rocking proteins with AC/DC
In nature, electrically sensitive proteins are represented largely by voltage-gated ion channels that are abundant in excitable tissues.
These are transmembrane proteins responsible for maintaining ion and electric gradients and for generating action potential across cellular membranes.
However, without electrically insulating membranes no electric gradients are feasible inside or outside cells, and no voltage sensitivity is required of soluble proteins that do not span cellular membranes.
One area where the effect of AC/DC electric fields has been studied extensively is cell permeabilization, electroporation, biomass sterilisation and drug delivery.
The mechanism mediating the effect of AC electric field is believed to involve cell membrane rupture or increased permeability due to electroporation or depolarisation of cellular membranes mediated by aberrant gating of voltage-sensitive ion channels.
But some observed effects remain unexplained.
This project aims to investigate the effect of DC and AC electric stimulation on a range of model proteins.
The ability of molecules to sense AC/DC electric field in solution rather than across biological membranes might provide new explanations to some unexplained biological phenomena and would allow a plethora of biotechnology applications, including the creation of biomolecular electronics and computer interfaces with biological matter.
Training in relevant instrumental analysis techniques will be provided.
Recent publications by postgraduate students in the group are listed on the research pages.
Thomas 1 - Dormouse conservation at Knepp
Dormice ( Muscardinus avellanarius ) are nocturnal, arboreal mammals which can be very hard to study, but they have also suffered significant population declines and we need reliable methods to monitor them.
One of the reasons for their decline has been habitat loss and fragmentation.
The Knepp Rewilding project have been working to restore their land from intensive arable farming with great success.
They have resident dormice populations and they would like to understand how their dormice use hedgerows to move around the landscape.
To survey for dormice we will be using footprint tunnels and eDNA techniques to compare the efficacy of these methodologies, in collaboration with the Knepp and the University of Sussex.
Research pages - Dr Thomas
Ubeda 1 - Mathematical Models of Parent-of-Origin Expression
Genomic imprinting refers to the silencing of genes according to their parental origin (either paternally silenced and maternally expressed or vice versa).
In this research I am interested in elaborating mathematical models that explore why would natural selection favour losing the advantages of diploidy to produce a functionally haploid locus
Research pages - Professor Ubeda
Ubeda 2 - Mathematical Models of Gene Transmission
Meiotic drive refers to the preferential transmission of an allele (driving allele) during meiosis in diploid individuals.
In this research I am interested in elaborating mathematical models that explore why is fair (Mendelian) segregation the rule and not the exception
Wilkinson 1 - Melanoma and centrosomes
Melanoma, in common with all solid tumours, displays excessive numbers of centrosomes, which help form the mitotic spindle.
Such supernumerary centrosomes are thought to drive carcinogenesis by contributing to aneuploidy and chromosomal instability.
However, much remains to be understood about the origin and the contribution of excessive centrosomes in tumorigenesis.
This Masters project will continue published work (by our laboratory, doi: 10.1016/j.jid.2020.01.024) on how centrosomes and cilia are affected in melanoma.
The mechanisms underlying these changes will be investigated with the aim of developing better diagnostics and treatments.
A combination of cell biology, immunocytochemistry, epifluorescence microscopy and protein analysis such as Western blotting will be used in this project.
Research pages - Dr Wilkinson
Wilkinson 2 - Polycystic kidney disease and cilia
Cilia are hair-like structures on the surface of many animal cells.
Cilium malfunction is linked to autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), which affects 1 in 1,000 of the population, as the cilium houses polycystin-1 whose gene is frequently mutated in ADPKD.
This project will investigate the role of a novel protein that interacts with polycystin-1, in collaboration with Dr Richard Sandford at University of Cambridge.
A variety of cell biology and embryological techniques will be used to investigate its function using cultured fish cells and zebrafish embryos.
Wilkinson 3 - Novel antibiotics from fish
Polyketide synthases are a class of enzymes that produce many of the antibiotics and other drugs used clinically today.
Most polyketides are sourced from soil bacteria and fungi.
They are also found in plants but have not been found in animals until now.
We recently published a paper ( https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mod.2019.04.001 ) showing for the first time that one such enzyme is present in fish.
Although we studied the zebrafish enzyme, homologues are present in other fish as well as reptiles, birds and some mammals.
What chemical is produced by this enzyme is unknown.
This project will discover the product of this enzyme and test if it has antibacterial effects or other pharmaceutical activities.
A combination of protein expression in cultured fish or mammalian cells or yeast or E.
coli, followed by bioassays will be used in this project.
Wilkinson 4 - Parkinson’s disease and cilia
A hallmark of Parkinson’s disease is the presence of large aggregates of protein called Lewy Bodies in affected neurons.
In collaboration with colleagues at the University of Cambridge, we have recently published a paper ( doi: 10.1242/bio.054338 ) that shows that related, possibly precursor, structures called aggresomes prevent the centrosome and cilia from functioning.
The centrosome is the microtubule organising centre of the cell and contributes to the internal organisation of the cell and intracellular transport.
Loss of these functions could lead to neuronal disease.
Notably, cilia are involved in olfaction, the sense of smell, which is lost in Parkinson’s disease, and the presence of aggresomes prevents cilia from forming.
This project will investigate the mechanisms by which the aggresome affects these other two organelles.
A combination of cell biology, immunocytochemistry, epifluorescence microscopy and zebrafish genetics will be used in this project.
Wilkinson 5 - Ear development
Early ear development in fish involves the formation of otoliths, protein-calcium calcium carbonate complexes whose generation and anchoring both involve the action of cilia.
They are related to the structures in the human ear used in the sense of balance.
We recently published, in collaboration with Ken Kramer and colleagues at Creighton University in the USA, a paper ( doi: 10.1016/j.mod.2019.04.001 ) showing that a novel type of enzyme is involved in formation of these structures.
This project will investigate the mechanism by which this enzyme contributes to otolith formation.
A combination of zebrafish genetics, embryology and tissue expression techniques will be used in this project.
Wilkinson 6 - Cilia to control cancer
In many cancers the primary cilium that is present on healthy cells is lost.
This may contribute to cancer development by disturbing the reception of the signals a cell receives that regulate cell division.
Furthermore, cilia are incompatible with cell division, which is inappropriately and excessively occurring in cancer, as the component centrioles are required to form the poles of the mitotic spindle.
In 2017 we published a paper ( doi: 10.1242/jcs.196642 ) showing that a centrosome satellite protein called BCAP was a novel inhibitor of ciliogenesis.
This project will test if inhibiting or removing BCAP from cells can prevent cell division and therefore be a potential anti-cancer drug target.
Williams 1 - Molecular Cell Biology studies in Biomedical research using a tractable model system
Research into improving our understanding of disease treatments is often focused on the characterisation cell signalling regulation caused by current or new medicines or bioactive natural products.
Rodents are traditionally used as models for these studies, in addition to human or mammalian cell lines.
The models are often difficult to manipulate, and can be associated with ethical considerations.
Our laboratory specialises in these studies using an innovative model system, the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum.
This system allows the rapid manipulation of cells, including CRISPR knockout approaches and expression of fluorescently tagged proteins in isogenic cell line enabling biochemical assays, to discover the molecular and cellular effects and mechanisms of action of medicines or health/disease related natural products (e.g.
Warren et al 2020 PNAS; Perry et al 2019 BJP; Sharma et al 2019 Autophagy).
We used Dictyostelium to modelled the effects of compounds relating to a range of diseases include various cancer types, multiple epilepsies, Alzheimer’s disease, bipolar disorder, infection and polycystic kidney disease and others.
We also often works with industry, focusing on wide-ranging compounds including various cannabinoids, medium chain fatty acid related to ketogenic diets, naturally occurring antibiotics, flavonoids, and traditional (herbal) remedies from around the world.
A Maters student joining our laboratory will learn a wide variety of key skills used widely in molecular cell biology and modelling, to equip them for ongoing academic studies or to move into an industry setting.
We are fully equipped for research with bespoke facilities for tissue culture, microscopy and molecular biology studies.
We would be delighted to hear from high-achieving students with some background and interest in molecular cell biology, who are keen to developing their careers in a scientific setting.
Research Pages - Professor Williams
Yanez 1 - Gene therapy, viral vector, Spinal muscular atrophy
Our laboratory ( http://AGCTlab.org ) works on the development of new gene and stem cell therapies for rare and common diseases.
Recently we have been working on novel therapeutic strategies for spinal cord injury, spinal muscular atrophy and ataxia telangiectasia (A-T).
The latter is a rare disease characterised by progressive degeneration in cerebellum, high risk of cancer and immunodeficiency.
It is caused by defects in the gene known as ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM).
The most advanced gene therapy technology, “genome editing”, can be used to introduce specific changes in the DNA, including the repair of a faulty gene: this could be applied as a therapy for A-T.
Genome editing has undergone a revolution over the last few years with the introduction of a system called CRISPR, which has greatly facilitated the process.
For this research project we will use the CRISPR system to test several ways to repair the faulty gene in A-T.
We will initially work with easy-to-grow human cells in the lab, and eventually the most effective A-T gene repair strategies will be tested in human blood stem cells.
If our proposed studies are successful, follow-up projects would explore these novel gene repair methods in blood stem cells from people affected by A-T.
We will also study possible side effects of these gene repair methods.
If successful, this work could eventually pave the way for the treatment of blood disease in A-T.
Research pages - Professor Yanez

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/classics/studying-here:
Studying Classics
Welcome to the Department of Classics at Royal Holloway, where you can study all aspects of the Greek and Roman worlds – their literature, language, history, archaeology and philosophy – covering a timespan of more than 1,000 years.
A Classical degree at Royal Holloway offers you the opportunity to gain a deep knowledge of the Greek and Roman world, to expand your horizons by studying Classics from new and challenging perspectives, and to look beyond the ancient Mediterranean.
Because they find Greek and Roman civilization so fascinating, our academic staff are devoted to understanding them through different themes, including the ancient Middle East, Roman Britain, and the reception of classical culture today.
Academics in our department are committed to helping you to do the same, and so develop skills of synthesis and critical analysis which will be sought after by future employers and will also stand you in good stead throughout your life.
At Royal Holloway we celebrate the diverse and multidisciplinary nature of Classics by offering you the flexibility to identify and explore your interests, and the support to construct a coherent degree course that reflects what Classics means to you.
We offer both undergraduate courses (BA) and postgraduate research courses (PhD and MRes) .
Postgraduate taught courses (MA) are provided as intercollegiate courses by the University of London, in partnership with King’s College London and University College London.
Mental Illness and NeurOdiversiTy Academic sUppoRt
This is an ongoing project started by members of staff (Gloyn, Kamash, Zucchetti) that seeks to make visible a departmental culture of support for students who are neurodivergent and living with mental illness.
Phase One won a College Team Teaching Prize in 2024
Phase Two has received funding from the School of Humanities' Scholarship and Innovation Fund and the Council of University Classics Departments Pedagogy Fund.
Members of the Classics Department at the graduation ceremony in 2018
Recruitment Lead
Profile | +44 1784 443209

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/computer-science/studying-here/postgraduate:
Masters programmes
We started offering Masters programmes in Big Data in 2013, among the first in the UK and in the world.
All our masters programmes are offered with an Year-in-Industry pathway that adds a paid internship, up to one year.
(with one exception, MSc Applied Data Science has no industry pathway).
We have a vast network of alumni who hold important positions in companies and organisations, some of whom are listed under "Careers and Internships" below.
Please check the FAQ tab below, or contact us .
Check here for information on Postgraduate Open Days.
Research in Machine Learning at Royal Holloway started in the 1990’s, at which time V.
Vapnik and A.
Chervonenkis (the inventors of Support Vector Machines) were both professors here.
We have developed both fundamental theory and practical algorithms that have fed into the analytics methods and techniques that are in use today.
Current researchers include Alexander Gammerman and Vladimir Vovk – the inventors of conformal predictors theory, a radically new method of estimating the accuracy of each prediction as it is made – and Chris Watkins, originator of reinforcement learning who developed ‘Q-learning’, a work that is fundamental to planning and control.
More information is available here .
We also carry out world-leading research in all aspects of distributed computing and systems – including design and analysis of algorithms, large-scale and cloud-based systems, fault-tolerance, distributed storage, cloud computing, peer-to-peer, concurrency control, and multi-core computing – and in artificial intelligence , including cognitive and autonomous agents, automated planning, scheduling and domain-independent search control, and applications in surveillance operations, disaster response missions, space operations.
We work closely with companies such as Facebook, IBM, NASA, GCHQ, Centrica (British Gas, Hive), Cognizant, QinetiQ, Thales UK, Orange Labs (UK), Yahoo!
Research, the UK Cards Association, Transport for London and ITSO, among others.
Thanks to our multiple connections with companies and organisations, you will also interact with many professionals during your studies, including former Royal Holloway students and post-docs who went on to work for Google, Microsoft, Amazon, and Facebook.
We have state-of-the-art networked computer facilities that can be accessed from off campus using VPN.
Students have access to a dedicated computing cluster HP DL380 comprising 32 processors, 32 Terabytes of disk storage, and GPU.
The cluster is currently running the full-fledged Hortonworks Hadoop distribution (HDP) as well as the PostgreSQL and MongoDB databases.
It also serves as a repository for massive data sets provided by our industrial and academic partners.
We are installing a new GPU server with two AMD 64-Core Processors, a terabyte of RAM, and four 80 Gigabyte NVIDIA A100 Tensor Core GPUs.
A Masters degree awards 180 credits (90 ECTS): 120 credits are obtained through modules taught during two terms, and 60 credits are obtained through a project or dissertation supervised by an academic member of staff during 12 weeks over the summer.
The total duration is circa 12 months unless you study part time (which allows you to take up to five years) or go on a placement/internship (which is up to one additional year).
Students who complete the taught part but choose not to do (or fail) the project are awarded a postgraduate diploma .
A postgraduate certificate is awarded to students who complete 60 credits of taught modules.
Our degrees can be taken part-time and modules can be taken in CPD mode.
Please check the "Part-time studies" tab below.
Equipped with Artificial Intelligence techniques, today's systems can teach themselves to perform tasks almost as well as humans can.
See this page for an outline of all modules, from which you will also choose your electives.
The list includes Deep Learning, Natural Language Processing, Online Machine Learning, and other relevant modules.
Note that availability may vary from year to year.
For more information, including entry requirements and fees, please follow these links:
This degree programme, offered jointly with the Department of Economics, allows you to specialise in modern quantitative finance and computational methods for financial modelling.
The list includes Business Intelligence, Visualisation and Exploratory Analysis, Fixed Income Securities and Derivatives, Time Series Econometrics, and other relevant modules in Computer Science and Economics.
This degree programme prepares you for a career as a data scientist; you will be taught both the foundational aspects and the practical skills that prepare you for handling and analysing different types of data in different fields.
The list includes Business Intelligence, Visualisation and Exploratory Analysis, Deep Learning, Online Machine Learning and other relevant modules.
This degree programme allows you to develop a deeper understanding of the science of systems that can learn from data, which for example companies such as Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo require to create, innovate, and define the next generation of search and analysis technologies.
The list includes Natural Language Processing, Visualisation and Exploratory Analysis, Reinforcement Learning, and other relevant modules.
MSc Applied Data Science is a new masters designed for those wanting to learn the skills required to gain insights from data.
The conversion course enables students with little prior exposure to computing to develop expertise and valuable skills that will prepare you for a career in the growing data science industry where there is significant demand for skilled personnel, both in the UK and internationally.
(Students with an interest in cyber security may also consider our combined MSc Applied Data Science and Cyber Security).
To read more about this course click here

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/drama-theatre-and-dance/studying-here:
Studying here
Drama at Royal Holloway is one of the most innovative, rigorous and lively academic departments in the world.
Royal Holloway has one of the most innovative, rigorous and lively academic drama and dance departments in the world.
Our bright, original and creative students work with some of the country's most eminent scholars and theatre-makers in first-class learning and performance spaces.
An education at Royal Holloway is a full-time, immersive experience, and you'll be working with some of the leading experts in the field, both creatively and intellectually.
We have a large number of academic staff, offering an incredible range of courses and supervision on the full array of theatre practices and disciplines.
Studying here will not only give you access to our Centre for Asian Theatre and Performance and Centre for Contemporary British Theatre, but also to a number of major national and international arts and cultural institutions.
These include the National Theatre, the Shanghai Theatre Academy and the Tate Modern.
The opportunities from studying at Royal Holloway have led to many of our graduates pursuing successful careers in TV, film, radio and all aspects of theatre, with notable alumni including Mark Strong, KT Tunstall, and Tanya Reynolds.
We have a busy and active student-led drama society - The Student Workshop - which mounts productions all year round.
It’s also a great place to make friends and socialise with your fellow students.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/earth-sciences/studying-here/postgraduate-taught:
Postgraduate Taught
As one of the leading centres of Earth Sciences research and teaching, our reputation and collaborations span the globe.
We investigate the past, present and future of Planet Earth.
Our three research centres encourage multidisciplinary activity and support a dynamic community of researchers, and we have world-class facilities and laboratories.
In the most recent research excellence framework, 100% of our research environment is rated world-leading or internationally excellent (REF, 2021)
We offer an MSc in Earth Sciences by Research .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/economics/studying-here/postgraduate:
Postgraduate study
Through the combination of high-quality inspirational teaching with world-class research our postgraduate taught courses are designed to prepare students for careers in government, the financial sector, consultancies, and international organisations.
The advanced options offered to our students also serve as excellent preparation for further postgraduate research studies.
With our postgraduate programme being kept relatively small, our students benefit from considerable individual attention from staff within an environment that is friendly, international, diverse, and dynamic.
Our core one-year courses are designed for students with an undergraduate degree in Economics or other quantitative disciplines.
We offer two one-year courses:
This course is designed to equip you with the tools of a modern economist, including quantitative skills and understanding of advanced economic theory.
During the year you will be able to study a variety of topics including macroeconomics, inequality and development and applied econometrics.
On completion of the 12 months, you will be ready for your chosen career path, whether in the private or the public sector, or doing further research studies.
This course will equip you with the skills required for a career in the broad area of finance, including financial analysis and management, insurance, management consultancy, mergers and acquisitions, risk control, and sales trading.
It will provide you with training from a practical as well as a theoretical point to enhance your employability.
Through your studies you will gain a strong grounding in core areas of finance and have the flexibility to specialise in areas such as fixed income securities and derivatives, investment and portfolio management or private equity.
The structure of each of these four courses for 2025/26 entry can be found here .
Jointly with the Computer Science Department we further offer
The course introduces you to modern finance theory and methods for data analysis applied to financial modelling and predictions.
You’ll acquire skills demanded by jobs in asset pricing, risk management and quantitative trading.
For the MSc Computational Finance we offer a two-year option with a year in industry.
The links between teaching and research are important for any contemporary degree environment.
As a leading department for economic research and teaching, we have a strong reputation for being research that speaks to the global challenges of our time and for being able to incorporate our expertise into our teaching to deliver degrees that are engaging, relevant, skill-emphasizing, and that ready our students for making a difference in the world!
All our MSc courses start with common training in quantitative and mathematical methods.
In addition, throughout the year, a number of modules are co-taught.
This shared teaching across our courses creates a strong sense of community among our students.
To reinforce the sense of economics postgraduate community, our students enjoy a dedicated study space equipped with computing facilities centrally located within our Horton Building.
For MSc Finance students we also offer integration with the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) accreditation programme.
It can help you:
This integration programme can be supplemented with further tuition, video lectures and a mock exam with an external publisher for £900.
For more information visit the CFA institute website.
The fees for each of the above course are listed on the respective course finder page here .
Royal Holloway alumni who continue their studies with us at postgraduate level can automatically receive a 15% tuition fee discount.
For eligible EU students starting their course with us in the academic year 2023/24, the University will award an EU Fee Reduction Scholarship equivalent to 30% of the difference between the UK (Home) and International fee.
As soon as you have received your offer to study with us there is also a wide range of postgraduate scholarships that you can apply for if eligible.
There are listed here .
Beyond graduation, our students have an impressive employment record of 90% within six months of graduation.
Royal Holloway graduates regularly find positions in high profile companies and organisations, with many finding work in government, research, business and financial sectors.
For students considering pursuing further study, the MSc programme is an ideal starting point, providing a solid foundation for PhD level studies.
Destinations of recent graduates include:
Find out more about graduate destinations here .
The friendly and community orientated environment at Royal Holloway naturally brings together staff and students, forging strong working relationships.
The beautiful, leafy Surrey campus is a great place to live, but also has fantastic links to Central London, Windsor and Reading.
Having everything – studies, friends, societies, sports and social life – on your doorstep sets us apart from other colleges of the University of London.
For more information about student life at Royal Holloway, take a look here .
MSc Economics
“I enjoyed my time at Royal Holloway as a undergraduate so much that I decided to stay on for another year to do a Masters.
“Academically, the teaching standard of the lecturers at Royal Holloway is very good, with many of them being experts in their respective fields and world-renowned.
“The welcoming, homely atmosphere created by all the lecturers, the amazing administration team (who always made an extra effort to learn everyone's names and were great fun to just have a chat with) and the other students, is what made my time at Royal Holloway some of the best years of my life."
"I chose Royal Holloway to study the MSc in Economics due to its high academic reputation and low comparable cost.
“The small cohort meant each student received ample contact time with academic staff which allowed for more intricate knowledge of the subjects.
“The outstanding teaching on the course facilitated a love for the subject for which I am truly grateful.
It is with these qualities, and many others that Royal Holloway as a whole holds, that makes it a fantastic place for further study."

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/electronic-engineering/studying-here/postgraduate-new:
Masters Degrees
Our stimulating environment for research and training equips graduates with the critical tools and qualifications needed to address technological advances and challenges of global business and industry.
Choose from our portfolio of Masters degree courses designed to meet the growing demand and needs of industry, businesses, and government.
Our courses offer a combination of academic rigour and commercial acumen that is embedded in our research, teaching, and enterprise philosophy to address the requirements of graduate employers today.
" The MSc courses offered by the Electronic Engineering department at Royal Holloway offer opportunities for anyone looking to advance their study in respective areas, to specialise into a given discipline, with the support of great staff." George, (MEng Electronic Engineering with a year in industry, 2023)
Read more about what our graduates say about their study experiences in alumni testimonials .
Our Engineering Management masters degrees are a great way to enhance your career in one year - taught from our well-equipped Central London campus.
Located in the heart of Bloomsbury, central London, we have our historic base at 11 Bedford Square as well as a dedicated suite in the University of London's impressive headquarters, Senate House, opposite the British Museum.
We also have exclusive use of modern teaching spaces in nearby Stewart House.
Our Egham campus based postgraduate masters courses are aligned with our research expertise in current and emerging electronic engineering pathways.
These courses are based in our high-spec Beatrice Shilling building equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, providing a stimulating environment for our lively community of students and staff.
You can read more about our courses below and find out how to apply for postgraduate study at Royal Holloway here
The MSc Engineering Management is designed to meet the growing global demand for postgraduate engineers and scientists with management expertise and capabilities to address complex and changing organisations.
The course has a strong emphasis on scientific, technological, and digital advancements with the convergence of established and modern engineering, manufacturing and service focussed industries.
It explores the strategic focus of developing multi and intra disciplinary characteristics of modern business enterprises while bridging the 'communication gap' between engineers and managers.
Our graduates are well equipped for all disciplines of management roles within both public and private sector organisations, with project and teamwork, business, and enterprise skills, and a sound understanding of the exploitation and benefits of technology and digital tools within workplace for a rewarding career.
This course is taught from our well-equipped Central London campus
Student testimonials.
Academic coordinator: Satya R Shah Professor of Engineering Management and Director of Postgraduate Education
The MSc Engineering Management with Cyber Security enables you to explore engineering management issues and address challenges with advanced skills to meet the growing demand from multi-sector organisations seeking a software and digital project management skills set.
There is a growing global demand for graduates with specialist cyber security projects expertise and capabilities to address the emerging threats to digital and information security sectors.
This course develops your knowledge and skillset to plan, design, and deliver software management projects on time and on budget.
It also has strategic focus on developing multi and intra disciplinary characteristics of modern digital and cyber security project-based environments.
You will graduate with an understanding of a broad range of cyber security and digital threats and its relation to project practices in industry.
This course is taught from our well-equipped Central London campus
Course contact: Satya R Shah Professor of Engineering Management and Director of Postgraduate Education
We offer an MSc by Research Electronic Engineering and an MPhil/PhD Electronic Engineering in one of our research areas.
We welcome applications from prospective students who wish to work on projects of particular interest to our academics.
We also welcome applicants wishing to propose their own projects in conjunction with our research interests.
You will be based at our Egham campus for this degree.
Academic coordinator: Dr Shyqyri Haxha
This MSc provides a varied and flexible curriculum informed by innovative research and current industrial needs with numerous optional modules so that the course can be tailored to suit your career aspirations.
You will have the opportunity to integrate software, hardware, electronic and electrical engineering systems; design and implement programable system on chip platforms; and specialize in sustainable power generation to meet future carbon neutral targets.
Academic coordinator: Alin Tisan
To hear what our students say about this course click here
Find out more about MSc Advanced Electronic and Electrical Engineering

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/english/studying-here:
Study here
Offering more than 40 undergraduate courses from across a thousand years of English, American and global literature, English at Royal Holloway is a particularly wide-ranging subject which allows you to follow your individual passions.
Within the department, our students can choose from a diverse and extensive range of courses covering works across time, cultures, genres, media and geographies.
You will explore and debate cutting-edge ideas and, if you wish, pursue your own creative writing.
The Department of English has internationally acclaimed experts on our academic staff and yet we are a close, inclusive community which offers you:
We currently offer a Single Honours Bachelor of Arts degree in English, Joint Honours Bachelor of Arts degrees, Master of Arts degrees in a range of theoretical and practical subjects, Doctor of Philosophy degrees, and a Practice-based PhD.
Select your degree from the tiles below for more information, or browse our undergraduate and Masters courses by clicking the 'Find Your Course' link below .
Find Your Course
Professor of English
Admissions Tutor
Profile | +44 1784 276316

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/geography/studying-here/postgraduate:
Postgraduate
The Department of Geography at Royal Holloway is one of the leading centres for international geographical research in the UK.
We currently offer the following Masters of Research (MRes) taught masters degree courses (60 out of the 180 credits are seminar based):
You can find out more about our academics and their areas of research here:
We invite prospective applicants to get in touch for specific information on opportunities available - contact geogpgadmin@royalholloway.ac.uk
We ask you to provide details of your research interests and a summary of your academic qualifications.
When you have chosen the supervisor / project that you are interested in, please apply here .
If you have any questions about the course please contact us.
Professor Oli.Mould@rhul.ac.uk director of our MRes degrees.
Various scholarship schemes exist to support students on our courses.
These include an alumni discount that entitles all Royal Holloway graduates to a 15% reduction on their tuition fees.
We have more than 70 PhD students in our vibrant community, pursuing cutting-edge research and undertaking advanced training, in a host of areas across political, cultural and physical geography.
Each year our department offers funded studentships in specific areas that will enhance our research capabilities.
Our department is also part of the prestigious ESRC SEDarc Doctoral Training Partnership , AHRC Techne Doctoral Training Partnership , EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Cyber Security for the Everyday , and the NERC Doctoral Training Partnership .
Studentships are available from several sources, which may vary, from time to time, in terms of eligibility and application procedures.
We are currently advertising the following opportunities:
ESRC SEDarc Doctoral Training Partnership Studentships
AHRC Techne Doctoral Training Partnership Studentships
EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Cybersecurity for the Everyday
Please see below for information on how to apply
Develop your skills
We are committed to providing excellent training and career development opportunities for our PhD students.
Successful applicants engage in departmental training to develop both their research-related and transferable skills.
You can tailor your own experience, choosing from a wide variety of courses covering career development, communication skills, work placements and specialised research methods in Geography.
You are strongly encouraged to attend and contribute to research group seminars, departmental events and our annual Postgraduate Research Forum.
In addition to departmental training, research students can take advantage of the University-led Researcher Development Programme.
All PhD positions (whether self-funded or not) may be applied for only after consultation with a proposed supervisor.
Before you start working on an application you will need to find a supervisor by contacting a member of academic staff in the geography department (with research interests similar to yours), to discuss your proposal.
If you find a member of the academic staff who is prepared to supervise you, then they will able to answer any questions that you have and help you with your application.
If you need help finding a member of staff to work with, you can contact Geography’s Postgraduate Lead, Dr Sasha Engelmann .
Applicants may also have alternative sources of funding.
Overseas students may receive direct support from overseas organisations or governmental institutions.
Eligibility
Applicants should have the equivalent of a 2.1-honours in Geography or a related discipline, and meet University requirements for English (for international students).
The chance of obtaining a studentship is increased for applicants holding a first-class Bachelor’s degree and/or a relevant MSc.
Overseas applicants may apply for Technē, SEDarc and Cybersecurity Doctoral Training Partnerships.
International applicants applying to departmental studentships (like the BGM and Widening Access studentship) are welcome but will be required to cover the difference between the UK and overseas tuition fee rates.
Step 1
Take a look at the research profiles of the staff members in geography, then contact your intended supervisor and find out whether they would be prepared to supervise you.
You can then start to shape your specific ‘research proposal’ with advice from your potential supervisor.
Each student can only prepare an application with one supervisor.
Step 2
Whether you are applying for a Departmental Studentship (like the BGM and Widening Access Studentship) or intend to enter the SEDarc or technē funding competitions, your application must be submitted through the University's online application system (called RH Direct), for which you need to register.
The online application system provides a lot of detail, including a list of documents that are required for each PhD application.
You will need to nominate two referees on this online form.
They will be contacted by the University directly, but it is a good idea for you to contact referees before you submit your application to make them aware of your plans, and so they can respond to the University request swiftly.
Please provide:
In addition to applying through RH Direct, applicants applying to the SEDarc and Technē competitions must also send their draft SEDarc and Technē applications directly to Sasha Engelmann by the deadline listed in the table above.
Blank SEDarc and Technē application forms can be provided by Sasha.
Research proposal material can be duplicated across the RH Direct and SEDarc / Technē applications.
What happens next?
After completeness and validity checks, your electronic submission will be sent to the Department of Geography, together with the references obtained by the University.
Once the Department is happy that all the required information is attached to your application, it is passed to the Postgraduate Research Committee, along with those of other applicants, for their consideration.
The Committee may, at this stage, request further information from individual applicants.
If you are unsuccessful at this stage you will be notified via email.
If you are shortlisted, you may be invited to an interview, which under certain circumstances may be done by video link.
SEDarc and Technē applicants will be considered by the Postgraduate Research Committee, after which they may or may not be progressed into the wider SEDarc and Technē competitions.
If progressed, it is likely that the department will provide feedback on SEDarc and Technē applications, and applicants will need to make further edits before SEDarc and Technē submission deadlines.
More guidance on some of the requested documents
Research Proposal (maximum 10,000 characters including spaces and references):
The research proposal should be completed by the applicant with input from the potential supervisor.
It should include:
Note, it is important that the expertise of your potential supervisors and the facilities available at RHUL (e.g.
specialist equipment) are highlighted in relation to your research proposal.
A personal statement completed by you (maximum 500 words):
This should include information on:
Enquiries
Dr Sasha Engelmann, Sasha.Engelmann@rhul.ac.uk, Geography PGR Lead
Find out about our PhD programme
Find out about research degree tuition fees
Find out about research degree studentships and funding

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/health-studies/studying-here:
Study in the Department of Health Studies at Royal Holloway, University of London and you will explore how environmental, biological, social, political and economic factors impact human and environmental health, affecting us all.
You will be taught by staff who are acknowledged experts in their fields with strong links to international research networks, human and plant health collaborations across the world.
They are as passionate about teaching as they are about making a difference to the world at large through innovative research, consultancy and collaborative projects.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/information-security/studying-here:
The field of Information Security has grown up very rapidly in recent years.
The subject embraces a wide range of issues, including security management, digital forensics, human aspects, cybercrime and security testing.
The Information Security Group at Royal Holloway launched its flagship MSc Information Security masters degree degree in 1992, which was the first such programme in the world.
Since then over 4,000 students from more than 100 countries have graduated from Royal Holloway.
Our MSc course has received Full Certification from GCHQ, and is taught by academic and industry experts.
The ISG currently supports the following programmes:
The ISG previously offered a distance learning version of the MSc in Information Security .
This programme is still supported for currently enrolled students, but is not accepting new applications since it has been replaced by the MSc in Cyber Security (listed above).
Want to know how it is to study with us?
Check out the following video

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/law-and-criminology/study-here/postgraduate-study:
Postgraduate Study
The Department of Law and Criminology offers taught courses in MSc Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies , MSc Forensic Psychology, MSc Criminology and MSc Social Work .
We welcome postgraduate research proposals in law, criminology, sociology, forensic psychology and social work.
Our growing postgraduate community emphasises on engaging with current intellectual debates along with development of skills to enhance employability.
Many of our postgraduate students who are also from outside UK enjoy a friendly and stimulating research environment and regular, tailored supervisory sessions.
All students who have graduated from an undergraduate programme at Royal Holloway will receive an automatic discount on fees for the on-campus postgraduate degrees.
For details and scholarships information, see here .
We currently offer the following Masters programmes:
MSc Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies
MSc Forensic Psychology
MSc Social Work
MSc Criminology
The Department of Law and Criminology is highly regarded for its research and has an active and vibrant research culture.
We conduct research on a wide range of subjects spanning law, criminology, sociology, social policy, and forensic psychology.
Our main research areas can be found here .
To read detailed research profiles of our staff, and find information about their publications and projects, please click here .
To read more about our PhD programme, click here .
Our postgraduate research students enjoy a friendly and stimulating research environment and regular, personally-tailored supervisory sessions.
Participating fully in the life of the School, our doctoral students are valued members of a close-knit group of academics.
We provide regular workshops on topics of relevance to life as a doctoral student and opportunities to develop transferable skills relevant to employment.
Our lively annual Postgraduate Research Day is always well-attended and gives postgraduate researchers the opportunity to showcase their work to staff and students in the School of Law.
We understand the importance of fostering doctoral students' professional skills, and fully support them in presenting papers at academic conferences in the UK and abroad.
We are committed to our students' success, providing mock vivas, annual reviews, and personal advice on issues such as managing time pressures and meeting deadlines.
Students are also actively encouraged to join one of the School’s four thriving research groups.
Many members of the School's postgraduate community are from outside the UK, providing an opportunity for the exchange of ideas within an international context.
Students register for an MPhil and then participate in an upgrade process before the 20 th month of their studies if full time (40 th month part time).
This requires them to submit chapters of their work for consideration by a panel of staff members and then make a formal presentation in front of this panel.
Having upgraded students are expected to submit their thesis by the end of their third year, or at the latest by the end of their fourth year if full time (part time by the end of their 8 th year).
The Department welcomes applications from suitably qualified and highly-motivated candidates.
We place great emphasis on matching prospective students to supervisors’ interests, building on our existing research activities.
Interested potential applicants should first refer to our website to obtain a good idea of the School’s research expertise.
The School is only able to consider applications in research areas of interest to its full-time academic staff.
In order to apply to undertake a postgraduate research degree in the department, you should:
In the first instance, you should check the research interests of members of academic staff in the department to see who is active in the area that you are interested in.
It is helpful at this stage if you can provide any member of staff you contact with an outline research proposal and a CV, setting out your qualifications and experience.
You should expect to have a series of discussions with the member of staff (by email, by telephone/Skype, or in person) about the project, about options for funding, and about your career aspirations.
These discussions will help the member of staff decide whether or not they would be an appropriate supervisor for your proposed project.
The purpose of the research proposal is two-fold: first, to help determine whether your topic corresponds with the interests and expertise of its proposed supervisor(s) and, second, to make clear how the research will make an original contribution to political and philosophical knowledge.
The proposal is important as it will allow the department to assess your aptitude for doctoral-level research, to allocate supervision appropriately, and to ensure we are fully able to support the study you propose.
Although you are required formally to submit the proposal with your application for doctoral study, it is a document you may wish to develop in discussion with a member of staff in the Department of Law and Criminology.
The proposal should be approximately 2,000 words in length (excluding the bibliography) and include the following sections:
You should explain the project’s focus, its main research question and broad aims, and how it will make an original contribution to political knowledge.
In this part of the proposal, you are demonstrating your knowledge of the field and the ways in which your project will add meaningfully to it.
If you intend to do empirical research, in this section you should detail the sources of data (qualitative and/or quantitative) that you will require in order to answer your project’s research questions and the specific methods you intend to apply in order to collect or generate those data.
You should offer a clear explanation for your selection of investigative techniques.
Why one method rather than another?
In this section you should, finally, reflect on the ethical implications of your proposed topic.
After applying
Further details
For further information concerning applications for postgraduate research in the department, please contact Dr Jane Marriott , Departmental Lead for Postgraduate Research.
English Language requirements for overseas PhD students to be accepted for study in the Department of Law and Criminology are as follows:
IELTS: 6.5 overall with 7 in Writing and no sub-score below 5.5 PTE: 61 overall with 69 in Writing and no sub-score lower than 51 TOEFL: 88 overall with Listening 17, Reading 18, Speaking 20 and Writing 26
Our graduates have also gone on to have extremely successful careers in a variety of Universities including here at Royal Holloway, University of London as well as at other institutions both inside and outside the UK.
View our Postgraduate Research degree fees .
Find out about sources of funding .
Our department is part of the prestigious ESRC SEDarc Doctoral Training Partnership .
Departmental deadline: 15 January 2025.
AHRC Techne Doctoral Training Partnership .
Departmental deadline: 10 January 2025.
We’re pleased to confirm the launch of a range of postgraduate law courses by University of Law at Royal Holloway, as part of a partnership starting in September 2023.
The courses include the Legal Practice Course, LLM in Legal Practice (SQE 1 & 2), SQE and Postgraduate Diploma in Law.
Read more here or on the University of Law website.
Senior Researcher, The Bayswater Institute
Subject: Medical Sociology
Year of Graduation: 2019
What first attracted you to Royal Holloway, University of London?
I chose RHUL to do my PhD because I valued the type of research being done at the university and wanted to be part of its teaching/research environment.
I also liked the idea of being at a campus based university in such beautiful surroundings.
What did Royal Holloway teach you?
Doing my PhD at RHUL expanded my perspective and enabled me to develop transferable skills.
By the end of my studies my confidence developed, my communication skills improved and I learnt how to reflexively engage with issues in my research and everyday life.
What’s happened in your career?
Since leaving RHUL I have been working full-time at The Bayswater Institute, a small charity which specialising in research, evaluation and training.
I was working at the Institute part-time during my PhD, which helped me to fund my studies and gain experience of other research contexts.
What advice would you give current students?
For me, connecting with other PhD students and friends on a regular basis was a vital part of finishing.
Presenting at conferences was especially helpful because preparing to give papers meant synthesising ideas in a similar way to the latter stages of writing up.
Research Associate, University of Portsmouth
Subject: Forensic Psychology
Year of Graduation: 2018
Current places of work: University of Portsmouth as a Research Associate (Post-doc) and 3Pillars Project as Development Lead
The expertise in the School of Law in relation to prison research made Royal Holloway a very exciting prospect, and to learn on such a beautiful campus whilst still being able to live in London was a bonus.
I think the most valuable thing I learnt from Royal Holloway was how to conduct inter-disciplinary research and how important it is that disciplines such as psychology and sociology work together and learn from one another.
I was also given extensive teaching experience throughout my PhD which I thoroughly enjoyed, enabling me to complete my Higher Education teaching qualification and equipping me to teach and manage others confidently.
Following my PhD I went travelling for six months and have only been back for three weeks, but in that time I have been able to secure two important roles through connections I made during my time at Royal Holloway.
I am now conducting exciting and innovative research in the field of sport in prisons and sport for development, whilst using my expertise as a psychologist to develop sports-based programmes for a charity that aim to divert young people away from crime.
I like keeping my work varied, and my time at Royal Holloway has allowed me to work this way by opening many doors whilst giving me hands on experience and introducing me to key figures and organisations in my field.
Take advantage of the Personal Development programmes that the university put on, get involved in teaching and enrol into the higher education teaching qualification and the Brilliant Club as early as possible, and present at an interdisciplinary conference.
Treat your research as training for your future career, learn as much as you can and don’t be afraid of asking questions, no one expects you to have all the answers, it will not be perfect and that’s fine!
And finally, if you feel a bit out of your depths at times I guarantee others are feeling the same as you, confide in others and you will be surprised at the response.
Principal Social Worker, Birmingham Children's Trust
Subject: Social Work
Year of Graduation: 2017
I wanted to study at Royal Holloway because it is an centre for expertise and research into social work.
The people there are friendly and welcoming, and from the outset of my initial visit I felt valued and supported.
The Social Work staff foster an environment of curiosity and reflection, and they are passionate about social work, and the impact of research and learning for people who experience social worker involvement in their lives.
The facilities at Royal Holloway are excellent, including a lovely campus in Egham, and offices and resources in central London.
My time at Royal Holloway taught me to be much more focused in my research and to adopt a structured, planned approach, so that I am able to take my personal experiences and interests, and look at a wide field of existing research and knowledge, to develop research that has clear methods and outcomes.
This was important for me in learning to take the broad areas of study I was looking at, and to be able to shape and craft my ideas into a clearer, analytic research study.
My supervisor Professor Tony Evans, gave me significant practical and emotional support across the course of my PhD to develop this more focused approach, and to be straightforward and more engaging in my writing.
He and many other members of the Social Work staff helped me to develop and hone my ideas through interesting conversations and debates, and through departmental teaching and research activity.
These experiences were invaluable to me in questioning my practice and research.
I was supported in my time at Royal Holloway to take on teaching experience, and this helped me to gain a subsequent university teaching post and a foundation for an academic career.
I chose to return to social work practice, as I wanted to test and develop my research as a practitioner and to continue to work directly with people.
My current role as a Principal Social Worker combines these roles as I am involved in learning from practice and research, and practice development with social workers, and the way I do this work is very much influenced by the critical thinking and collaborative learning approaches that defined my time at Royal Holloway.
To try and develop a support network of people you can talk to about your research, who can offer support when you feel are struggling and feeling stuck, and who can challenge you and get you to think really clearly about what you want to say and how you are saying it.
And knowing what to leave out of your research is probably harder than knowing what to include!
Senior Statistical Support Officer, Office for National Statistics
Subject: Sociology
Job title: Senior Statistical Support Officer / Data Governance Manager
Royal Holloway is a beautiful campus with a relaxed and collegial atmosphere.
The picturesque surroundings and the busy and thriving campus community are balanced with the closeness to London by train to have an occasional day in the city.
Royal Holloway introduced to me to sociological theories and concepts and showed me how these applied to real world events and challenges.
I was taught to think critically and to identify research problems and think of research methods and approaches to address these.
Following my academic studies I started working at the Office for National Statistics as a Statistical Support Officer and later as a manager for the same team.
My PhD studies gave me lots of transferable skills.
My experience designing and conducting my own independent research project for my PhD helped me to develop research at pace and to manage my time and heavy workload effectively in a fast-paced government department.
My advice would be to think as early and as hard as possible about what you want from your working life and what you need to do to prepare to get there.
Plan, do your background research, seek relevant further qualifications and work experience, and network as much as possible - email and telephone any contacts you have - keenly and shamelessly - to get your dream job.
With hard work and hopefully a bit of luck you will land it.
Lecturer, Queen's University, Belfast
I started my PhD in 2004 and successfully defended my thesis in 2009.
The department was extremely supportive in creating a suitable atmosphere for me to carry out my research, by providing me access to a good infrastructure and mechanisms of support from staff and students.
My faculty also helped me create links with other administrative departments in the university where I was later able to get a part time administrative position to support myself.
My supervisor was brilliant.
She was sensitive to my needs as an international student and supported me to be able to live and study well at RHUL.
She also encouraged and supported me to attend various conferences, apply for grants and subsequently plan my future after my research.
Senior Lecturer, Kingston University
In 2005-07 I studied for an MSc in Social Work at Royal Holloway, and after qualifying went on to work for a local authority child protection team.
A couple of years later I happened to see an email advertising a number of PhD scholarships funded by the Southwest London Academic Network (SWan).
Suddenly I knew that was what I wanted to do!
I contacted my MSc course director, who was very helpful and supportive, and encouraged me to make an application.
Then I was fortunate enough to make it through the selection interview.
Along with my lead supervisor, I was also provided with two other supervising academics linked to SWan.
They were all brilliant.
My lead supervisor was there right from the start and stayed with me through every stage of the process, culminating in the nerve-shredding experience that is the PhD Viva.
Doing a PhD was transformative in many ways.
My supervisors encouraged me to present at conferences and publish papers, and gave me opportunities to teach and contribute to other research projects.
In the end, it has completely changed my career path.
National University of Singapore
Doing my PhD study at Royal Holloway has given me exposure to an outstanding academic experience and research environment which has helped expand my intellectual inquiry.
The institutional support and the resources made available for doctoral students for research were excellent.
I never stopped working: reading, thinking and writing.
I was fortunate to have a committed and dedicated supervisor.
She was exceptional from day one of my doctoral study.
She was sensitive to my needs, intuitive, supportive and a superb mentor.
My supervisor's high expectation, confidence in me, and enthusiasm for my research project were the driving force to give my best and to be the best that I can be.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/mathematics/studying-here/postgraduate-taught:
Postgraduate taught programmes
The Department of Mathematics has strong expertise in information security and plays an active part in the Information Security Group (ISG) at Royal Holloway, offering the world-renowned Masters in Information Security.
The electronic handling of information is one of the defining technologies of our age, which is rapidly growing.
And while there are many benefits to this technology, there are major threats to businesses, governments and individuals, such as information manipulation, deliberate damage to stored information and blackmail associated with the threat of damage.
This one year Masters is taught by the Information Security Group (part of the same school as Mathematics) and covers countermeasures to these threats, including cryptography, computer security and fraud detection.
You can also choose to study the course over two years part-time, or three to five years (CPD).
A year in industry variant is also available.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/media-arts/studying-here:
Media arts from every perspective
As you might expect from such a well-rated Media Arts department, you’ll be taught by world-class scholars and industry professionals.
You’ll also enjoy a unique equal combination of critical theory and creative practice.
Our wide range of courses and excellent facilities will provide you with a broad foundation for a career in the media and communications industries.
We offer a range of undergraduate degrees and an array of programmes and research topics for postgraduate students, all taught by media professionals who have held or are still holding high-ranking positions in the industry.
See:
Our postgraduate research students will join a vibrant, international community of around 30 PhD students who are working on both theoretical and practice-based topics.
Whether you’re an undergraduate or postgraduate student, you’ll have considerable freedom in your choice of courses during your degree and will be encouraged to develop as an individual, pursuing your intellectual passions and developing your creative potential.
At Royal Holloway, you’ll be taught by academics with international reputations who are leading scholars in their specialist fields, and by current practitioners, many of whom maintain professional media careers as directors, producers and screenwriters.
We also provide a supporting and inspiring environment, with a friendly and welcoming ethos.
Staff offer individual attention whenever required and we run a Personal Adviser system.
This means you’ll be assigned a member of staff who’ll provide academic advice and support throughout your degree programme.
Relations between staff and students are enhanced by regular meetings of the department’s official staff-student committee.
While studying at Royal Holloway, you’ll have access to state-of-the-art facilities , such as a television studio and gallery equipped with industry level recording equipment.
You’ll also learn how to follow the same protocol as used in professional practice.
We’re ranked highly for career prospects and our graduates are extremely employable - 92% of our graduates are employed or go on to further study within six months of graduating (DLHE 2017).
In recent years, our graduates have entered many different media-related fields including terrestrial and satellite broadcasting, film and television production and information technology and design.
Others have found success as music video directors, Hollywood script supervisors, independent documentary film-makers, web designers and contemporary artists.
You can also enhance your employability by taking part in our competitive work placement scheme, open to all undergraduates in the department as they progress through their degree.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/music/studying-here:
Studying Music with us
On this page you will find information on our teaching across different disciplines of Music, and links to explore specific details of our undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes.
Whether in composition, performance, or academic musical study, students in the Music Department benefit from research-led teaching where the expertise of our academic staff offers cutting-edge approaches and encompasses a diversity of genres, historical periods, global contexts and much more.
In addition to our undergraudtae BMus and joint-honours pathways, we are introducing to you our BA Music and Sound Design for Film, Television, and Interactive Media at Royal Holloway.
This is a flexible, all-round music degree with a special focus on music and sound for film, TV, games and other media.
At Royal Holloway, you may wish to specialise in one, more, or all of these specialisms with our world-leading faculty:
We have a long-standing international reputation for the study of music in its historical contexts.
As part of the core study of music history in the first and second year of the undergraduate course, all students are introduced to music from the Medieval through to the Modern periods, and many take up the opportunity to continue their studies through optional courses that approach music through its social and political contexts, its compositional styles and notations, its aesthetic and philosophical ideas, and through editing early sources.
We have a range of expertise in Early Music (Geoffrey Baker, Stephen Rose and Henry Stobart) and also in more modern repertoires from the eighteenth century through to contemporary music (Mark Berry, Julie Brown, Paul Harper-Scott, Julian Johnson, Tim Summers).
These interests are reflected in the wide range of option courses on offer to second and third year students, which in any year may include courses such as Editing and Notation of Early Music, Music and Politics in Tudor England, Music and Society in Purcell’s London, J S Bach: Context and Reception, Mozart’s Operas, Late Beethoven, Wagner’s Ring, Bruckner’s Symphonies, Mahler and Viennese Modernism, Music in 1920s Paris, German Music Between the Wars (1919-1939), Shostakovich String Quartets, The Music Film.
At Royal Holloway, students are given a thorough training in music theory and analysis, starting with the theory of tonal music, including approaches to small- and large-scale form, harmony and counterpoint.
For those wanting to take their studies further, these can be extended to specialised techniques such as Schenkerian analysis.
There is also a focus on pre-tonal and post-tonal music, with students encountering suitable methods for analysis.
The emphasis of theory training at Royal Holloway is not to analyse music simply for its own sake, but rather to equip students with the ability to grasp the workings of Western art music in order to better understand its function and meaning in the society in which it was written.
The Department of Music at Royal Holloway has a well-established national and international reputation in musical performance.
It has nurtured the talents of musicians who have subsequently occupied a distinguished position in musical life both in the United Kingdom and abroad.
The performance programme plays an integral role in the life of the Music Department.
Our performance facilities are excellent, with a newly refurbished recital space in our main building and well-equipped and -appointed performance teaching and practice rooms elsewhere on campus.
We also hold regular concerts in the University's magnificent Picture Gallery and the award-winning Windsor Building Auditorium which seats 400 people.
Further information on the array of performance opportunities open to our students can be found here.
All undergraduate students at Royal Holloway encounter some elements of performance within their degree, although there is sufficient flexibility within the overall curriculum to interest both specialist and non-specialist performers.
Regular lessons with instrumental and vocal tutors are organised in conjunction with a series of lectures and practical seminars.
A wide range of performance courses is available to second and third-year students.
The Music Department also offers exciting opportunities to study practical applications of non-Western music.
At graduate level, we offer students a rich conspectus of academic and practical options in performance.
We believe being a composer today is about finding your individual voice, developing technical skills and a professional attitude, and finding the confidence to explore your own creativity.
Royal Holloway offers a cohesive pathway allowing students to develop creatively and technically throughout the degree programme.
A thorough and wide-ranging technical and practical foundation in acoustic composition is available to all first-year music undergraduates.
In the second and third years a range of options is available for those wishing to further explore their compositional ideas.
At graduate level there is a range of courses available in acoustic and studio composition whilst a large number of PhD composers create a thriving community for contemporary music within the Department.
At Royal Holloway studio composition and music technology is studied as part of a well-rounded undergraduate music degree.
You can combine practical studio-based creative work with the academic study of media, film and TV music.
Options are designed to provide a thorough grounding in studio techniques and a preparation for using the sort of technology found in the professional musical world after graduation.
Study is geared primarily towards composing, particularly for media, film and TV, but also covers elements of recording, editing, sound design and experimental music.
Many Royal Holloway graduates are now making careers as professional composers, including Tansy Davies, Richard Baker, KT Tunstall, Joby Talbot, Deirdre Gribbin, Michael Zev Gordon, Johnathan Cole and Paul Newland.
Composers at Royal Holloway have their music played and recorded regularly by resident and visiting professional musicians, the New Music Collective and, of course, by fellow students.
Our award-winning New Music Ensemble-in-Residence CHROMA provides unrivalled workshop and performance opportunities.
Student composers are also invited to submit applications for the Picture Gallery Composer-in-Residence scheme among many other new music projects around campus.
Are you a composer in years 10-13 and keen to have your music performed?
Enter our new Composition Competition to have your piece sung by our Chapel Choir: https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/music/studying-here/composition-competition
The CHROMA Ensemble
Composers’ Ensemble , Contemporary Consort , Fidelio Trio , Juice Vocal Trio , The Riot Ensemble
Royal Holloway is a world-leading centre for Global Music Studies, and benefits from one of the highest concentrations of ethnomusicologists of any music department in the UK and a vibrant research culture.
Staff research expertise at Royal Holloway spans an impressive regional compass that includes Asia, the Caribbean, Europe and Latin America.
We cover key aspects of the field ranging from a core commitment to ethnographic fieldwork and performance to perspectives on politics, gender, nationalism, identity, media, new media, indigeneity, intellectual property, popular music, diaspora, globalisation, neoliberalism, development and community music, to name just a few.
Our team of researchers includes: Professor Tina K.
Ramnarine , Dr Henry Stobart , Dr Shzr Ee Tan , and Professor Geoff Baker .
This rich research environment informs our dynamic Undergraduate and Postgraduate teaching programme.
At Masters level we offer a dedicated Ethnomusicology Pathway.
Undergraduates can choose from an exciting range of courses, which in any year may include Contemporary Debates in Music; Introduction to World Musics; Studies in Ethnomusicology; Studies in Music, Media and Technology; Music, Power and Politics; Intercultural Performance; Musics of China; Sibelius and the Music of Northern Europe; Orchestras around the World; Traditional Music of the Andes.
World Music performance options include an Andean Band and a Sundanese Gamelan, which can be studied for credit at undergraduate level, as well as an extracurricular Korean Drumming group and Balkan Ensemble.
These innovative courses can lead to a degree that focuses on ethnomusicology and world music, or they can provide stimulating perspectives to contextualise and complement the study of western art music, composition and performance.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/physics/studying-here/masters-degrees:
We’re one of the most respected centres for Physics teaching and research in the UK, ranked tenth in the 2022 UK Guardian league table.
Many students take this degree in order to get a taste of research without an initial commitment to a three-year PhD.
However approximately 50 per cent follow on with a PhD.
The MSc in Physics Research may also be taken by those qualified to BSc level who desire to progress to doctoral studies.
Although MSc by Research is available in any research area we are also offering a one year
Please find more information on these courses and how to apply here .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/politics-and-international-relations/studying-here:
We live in a period of rapid change in all spheres of life - political, cultural, economic and social.
The study of politics and international relations is concerned with understanding these changes and the fundamental challenges linked to them.
Our degree programmes are designed to provide you with the means of making sense of issues of contemporary significance, as well as giving you the skills for a variety of work settings.
In the final year, students have the opportunity take our Politics in Action module, where they can gain the opportunity to work with an MP, a government body, a non-governmental organisation or a charity for one day a week, and produce a policy report as one of their final years options.
Please click here to read about some of the wonderful work and policy analysis of our Politics in Action Students.
Our staff are engaged in research on a wide range of subjects.
Our teaching is informed by the very latest information and research findings.
The department focuses on political life at the global, the national and the local levels.
The different approaches we take in our research and teaching complement and enrich one other, and this is reflected in the way in which our degree programmes are designed and taught.
Our researchers have built a curriculum in politics and international relations that is truly up-to-date and reflects the most recent innovations in the discipline.
We strive to ensure the research and teaching we offer at Royal Holloway is of the highest quality.
For more information on our programmes and courses, click the links below on undergraduate, postgraduate taught, and research degrees.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/philosophy/studying-here/postgraduate-taught:
Our course-taught MA structure offers two distinct MA Philosophy streams - European Philosophy and Political Philosophy - providing advanced study in concepts and debates in both analytic and continental traditions.
Applicants are eligible to apply for a Bradley de Glehn Scholarship to support their MA studies.
We also offer an MA (by Research) in Philosophy that allows you to conduct independent research into an area of philosophy, culminating in the writing of a substantial dissertation.
Further information about MA by Research .
The Royal Holloway MA in European Philosophy offers one of the few MA courses in the country to specialise in the European tradition in philosophy.
Drawing on core research and teaching strengths in 19th and 20th century French and German thought, the MA gives students the opportunity to study the development of European philosophy from Kant’s critical philosophy onwards, with a focus on German Idealism and the German phenomenologists on one side, and the French philosophical movements in the 20th century from Bergson and the existentialist movement through to poststructuralism and psychoanalysis.
Advanced Topics in Philosophy (40 credits)
Two courses from among:
Contemporary Continental Political Thought (20 credits)
The European Philosophical Trajectory (20 credits)
Twentieth Century French Thought (20 credits)
40 credits of option courses from available options
Dissertation (60 credits)
The MA in Political Philosophy offers advanced training in key issues and thinkers in contemporary political thought, from both Anglo-American and Continental perspectives.
Our political philosophers have research and teaching interests in applied analytical political theory (with issues including immigration, citizenship and the politics of recognition), post-Nietzschean theories of identity and post-identity politics, democratic theory and pragmatist philosophy.
Anglo-American Political Theory (20 credits)
Political Concepts (20 credits)
Professor of Political Theory
Coordinator, Contemporary Political Theory Research Group
Profile | +44 1784 414127

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/psychology/studying-here/postgraduate:
Studying a masters degree with us
Our Masters programmes are designed to enhance your critical understanding of psychological theories and the appropriate evidence base as well as your skills in research and critical thinking.
You will receive training in the scientist-practitioner model and build a conceptual foundation and core skills for training as an applied psychologist.
You'll also benefit from:
There are excellent facilities for undertaking research, with state-of-the-art facilities available including social observation labs, a developmental studies centre, MRI, a mind, body and action research lab and cognitive behavioural testing suites.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/clearing/accommodation:
Find out your accommodation options if you're joining us through Clearing.
Once you’ve confirmed your Clearing place with us you can apply for accommodation using our Online Accommodation System .
Many of our students choose to commute to Royal Holloway and we're ideally placed if you live in the London or south east of England area.
You can also live in private rented accommodation in the local area, where houses are of a high standard and living costs compare favourably with other parts of the south east.
The Students’ Union runs HouseSearch , an online service where you can search properties in the local area.
If you sign a contract for private accommodation, you won't be able to take a room in Halls.
Visit our private rented accommodation information to find out more.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/clearing/frequently-asked-questions:
Frequently asked questions
Find out everything you need to know about Clearing at Royal Holloway with our frequently asked questions.
Clearing is a service you can use to find university courses with vacancies if you've applied late, haven't applied at all, or your results are not as expected.
If you're eligible to use Clearing, a ‘clearing choice’ button will automatically be added to your UCAS Hub screen.
You’ll be able to search for course vacancies on UCAS from 5 July and information will also be available on individual university sites.
Once you’ve found a course you’re interested in, you’ll need to contact the university directly to get a verbal offer.
Once you’ve received this, you’ll need to decide if you want to accept the offer and then enter the details of the university and course into UCAS Hub
Find out more about accepting your Clearing offer .
You’re eligible for Clearing if:
o You’ve accepted an offer but have changed your mind about your chosen course or university
o You haven’t applied for a university place for September, or you applied for a place after 30 June
o You did apply via UCAS but didn’t receive any offers, or declined all your offers
o You don’t achieve the grades you need for your firm or insurance places and your offers have been withdrawn.
Course vacancies are listed on university websites, on the UCAS website and in the national press.
Details of our vacancies at Royal Holloway will be published on our website and the UCAS website ahead of A-level results day.
This is a UCAS-run service for applicants who don’t hold any offers.
It provides a list of universities with vacancies where required grades are similar to those the student has achieved.
Students can then indicate to these universities that they’re interested in joining them through Clearing.
If you’ve used the service and have expressed an interest in joining Royal Holloway, we’ll be in touch if we’re able to make you an offer
You can call us to ask us about Clearing once you have your results.
For most people this will be 14 August, A-level results day, but you can call us any time from 5 July if you have results from other qualifications (e.g.
Scottish Higher, International Baccalaureate) or if you completed your A-levels in previous years.
Call us on +44 (0)1784 772455 .
Hotline opening hours:
No, Clearing offers can only be made directly to applicants so you'll need to call yourself, but you're welcome to have a parent or supporter with you when you call.
When we have your results we’ll make one of four decisions:
We’ll let you know our decision by email, or in some cases by text message, as early as 8.30am Thursday 14  August.
If you’ve met the conditions of your offer, you'll receive a confirmed unconditional offer from us.
We’ll send any other information you need, including details about enrolment, in late August.
We aim to make all decisions by Thursday 14 August if we've received all of your results.
We encourage you to consider carefully whether you really don’t want to go to the university you’ve secured a place with.
If you're certain you want to reject your unconditional firm offer, you'll need to go to your UCAS Hub to release yourself.
You need to have met the conditions of your offer by 3 September 2025.
If you know you won’t be able to meet the conditions by this date, let our Admissions team know by calling us on +44 (0)1784 772455
We'll need to wait for your GCSE results before we’re able to confirm your place.
As soon as you receive them you'll need to email them to us at applicants@royalholloway.ac.uk
If you had extenuating circumstances you should contact our admissions team by 31 July 2025.
We'll need you to provide documentary evidence (e.g.
a letter from your school and/or doctor etc.) Applications are considered on a case-by-case basis.
We also recommend you approach the relevant examining boards and provide evidence to them of your extenuating circumstances.
If you’ve narrowly missed our English language requirements please send them in and we'll reconsider your application.
Email a scanned copy of your results to applicants@royalholloway.ac.uk .
If you’ve not met the academic conditions of your offer we can refund your deposit.
If your results haven’t already been sent to Royal Holloway, please email a scanned copy of your final results to applicants@royalholloway.ac.uk and request a refund.
Give us a call on +44 (0)1784 772455 .
You'll be able to speak with an adviser about your personal circumstances.
It may be possible for you to defer your place until September 2026.
If you'd like to defer your place, you should inform us in writing, by emailing applicants@royalholloway.ac.uk .
You'll still need to meet all of the conditions of your offer by 3 September 2025.
You can find out more about accommodation for students who join us through Clearing here .
Once you've referred yourself to Royal Holloway on UCAS, your status will change to Unconditional Firm.
You'll then be able to register and apply using our Online Accommodation System.
Find out more about our Halls
Students can move in from Friday 19 September ready to start term on 22 September.
You'll be asked to complete an induction and arrival module online in September to book your arrival slot.
You can find out everything you need to know about moving in here .
If you don't meet your offer conditions and are no longer going to study at Royal Holloway, your accommodation contract will be cancelled and your pre-payment will be refunded.
If you defer your place, your accommodation contract will be cancelled.
For your room we'd advise bringing bed linen (sheets, duvet, duvet cover, pillow, pillow cases etc).
For shared kitchens, we'd advise bringing cups, plates and bowls, pots, pans, roasting tins and cooking utensils, cutlery, washing up materials and tea towels etc.
You can also purchase packs for your bedroom, bathroom and kitchen through UniKitOut .
It can take up to 10 hours after your place has been confirmed before you can apply for accommodation.
If you’ve waited 10 hours and still aren’t able to register on the portal, the best thing to do is contact studentaccommodation@rhul.ac.uk
Alternatively, you can call +44 (0)1784 911695 .
The Student Accommodation phone line has extended opening hours around A-level results day:
You can find out more about living in private accommodation on our accommodation pages .
If you’ve already applied for student finance but have changed your course, or your university or college, you must let Student Finance England know as soon as possible as this could affect the amount of student finance you can get.
If you haven’t applied for student finance yet, you need to apply now.
The sooner you apply, the sooner your application will be processed.
You might not get all your money in time for the start of your course but Student Finance England will make an initial assessment so you have some money as close to the start of your course as possible.
For more information visit the government guidance for students going through Clearing .
Yes, we run campus tours aimed specifically at students joining us through Clearing on A-level results day, and the following Friday and Saturday.
Find out more and book your place .
If you're an international student joining us through Clearing you can find out more about visiting our campus here .
You're also welcome to book a self-led tour of our campus at any time.
This is the nine-digit number starting with 100 or 101 you’re given when you apply for one of our courses.
Your number will be printed on any emails or letters you’ve received from our Admissions team.
Term starts on Monday 22 September 2025.
If you need to update your contact details, please contact UCAS who'll update your application and send them over to us.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/clearing/accepting-your-clearing-offer:
Accepting your Clearing offer
To accept your offer, you'll need to follow a few straightforward steps.
The team member you spoke to will have assessed your grades and suitability for the course you've selected and made you a verbal offer based on the information you gave us over the phone.
If you’d like to accept your offer to study with us, you just need to add Royal Holloway as a Clearing choice on UCAS.
You can find the 'institution code' and 'course code' you'll need to use on UCAS Hub.
UCAS will update automatically once you’ve done this.
You should receive notification of this within two to three hours (within working hours).
Royal Holloway will also send you an email confirming your Clearing offer that includes these codes approximately an hour after your phone call.
The email is for your records only and you don’t need to wait for it to complete step 2.
Our team will check that the information matches what we spoke to you about over the phone, and will also verify there are still places available on your chosen course.
At this point, if everything is correct, your status on UCAS Hub should change to show that your Clearing choice is Confirmed and we'll send also send you an email confirming your place at Royal Holloway.
The email and confirmation on your UCAS Hub should take about one working day from the time you add us as a choice.
If there are no longer places available or we have any queries about the information you provided on the phone, we’ll contact you as soon as possible.
Once you've received the email from us showing that your status is Unconditional Firm (U/F), you can apply for accommodation.
The email will contain instructions for how to do this.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/clearing/parent-s-guide-to-clearing:
Supporting your student through Clearing
Clearing can be part of your student’s big plan.
We know how important it is for parents and supporters to feel they're equipped to support their student throughout the whole university process, and particularly if they find themselves using Clearing.
There are lots of reasons why a student might be using Clearing to find a place at university.
They might not have got any offers when they first applied, or maybe they didn’t do quite as well in their exams as they hoped, or maybe they did better than expected.
They might simply have changed their mind about where and what they want to study, or maybe they’ve only just decided they want to go to university at all.
Whatever their reason, it’s good to know that thousands of students successfully use Clearing each year to find their place at university.
Here are some tips on how you can help your student make their Clearing experience a success:
Take a look at our Clearing FAQs for more details and information.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/clearing/clearing-stories:
Clearing stories
Thinking of using Clearing?
Find out what the experience was like for some of our students and alumni.
Whether you're using Clearing because you've missed out on your offer grades, are applying directly via Clearing or have simply changed your mind on your original choices, you can be sure you're not alone.
Plenty of our students were in the same boat in previous years and have successfully used the Clearing process to find their perfect course at Royal Holloway and then go on to achieve great things.
Abi is a BSc Social Science student who found her place at Royal Holloway through Clearing.
She said: “When I discovered that I had narrowly missed my grades for my firm choice on A-Level results day, I was incredibly stressed.
"I decided to give Clearing a go and phoned the Royal Holloway Clearing hotline.
I didn’t have to wait for too long for my call to be answered, and I immediately felt reassured by the person on the other end of the phone.
They talked me through my options, offered me a place on my course, and gave me all the information I needed to navigate the next steps.
“Looking back now I’m in my final year, I’m so pleased with how things have panned out.
Clearing meant that I could still join a university of my choice, succeed on a course I’ve loved, and make lifelong friends.
“To anyone who finds themselves in the same boat, don’t panic.
It isn’t the end of the world, and everything will work out eventually!
Think your next steps through and accept help from the person who takes your call.
They’re on your side and want to match you with a course and university that’s right for you.”
When Results Day went unexpectedly, Anthony found his way to Royal Holloway to study Economics.
He's now excelling as a Financial Services Risk Consultant at PwC.
Looking back, he says: "I remember feeling like I’d failed when I checked UCAS on results day and saw that I was in Clearing.
I hadn’t achieved my predicted grades, and I was just one grade away from meeting my insurance university.
As far I was concerned it meant I wasn’t going to university, and I didn’t know what to do.
"I began calling universities that were open for Clearing with the help of family and teachers, and eventually I phoned Royal Holloway.
I was immediately reassured when I learnt that there were places on multiple related courses.
"Although I used to wonder how life might be different if I had gone to my firm choice, now I’m in a job I love, I can confidently say that it all worked out for the best.
Clearing led me to Royal Holloway where I had the most incredible experience, achieved a first in my degree, made friends for life and learnt the skills needed to enter the working world.
"If you find yourself needing to use Clearing, don’t feel it’s the end of the world.
Take comfort in the fact it’s designed to help you when things don’t go to plan and know that everything will work out."
Nathaniel is a BSc Computer Science with Integrated Foundation Year graduate.
He came to Royal Holloway through Clearing after facing personal challenges in his final year of sixth form.
He said: "My A-Levels had been severely disrupted when I became ill with a physical disability, and I was devastated when my grades were far from what I expected.
I missed out on both my firm and insurance offers and was thrown into panic.
"My worries soon disappeared when Royal Holloway answered my call.
The person I spoke to took time to understand my situation and offered me a place on the integrated foundation year.
They explained everything to me, and once I had got my head around the next steps, I could see my plans coming back to life.
"Looking back as a graduate, I know it was the right pathway for me.
The foundation year got me back on track, led me onto a course I really enjoyed and gave me back my confidence.
I can honestly say I wouldn’t be the person I am today without Clearing.
"I’d advice anyone going through Clearing not to worry.
While the uncertainty is scary, you’ll get through it and the right course will be waiting for you.
I’ve also been on the other end of the phone as a call-handler when I was a student ambassador, so I can assure you that you’ll be in safe hands."
Helen came to Royal Holloway through Clearing in 2003.
She studied BA English and MA Shakespeare.
She reflects on her experience: "I can still remember the absolute heartbreak of my A-Level results day.
I thought I knew what the next three years of my life were going to look like, and suddenly I had to think again.
"I also remember the kindness of the person I spoke to at Royal Holloway while I was going through Clearing, and the enormous relief I felt when I was offered a place.
"I enjoyed my degree enormously and learnt so much!
I also made some of the best friends of my life there, and 20+ years on our children often play together.
"I have a career I’m proud of and life is good.
If I could go back and speak to that panicked 18 year old, I’d reassure her that life can often take us down an unexpected path, but it’s what we choose to do with our surprises that matters in the end."

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/online-open-day-schedule-september-2025:
Online Open Day schedule
Our next Online Open Day 💻 is on Wednesday 17 September from 3-6pm (UK time).
Wondering what this event includes?
Find out below.
We'll welcome you to our Online Open Day and Royal Holloway.
Here you'll discover why we might be the right university for you.
Take part in a live, interactive session with a member of staff from the department you're interesting in joining and have your course questions answered.
For most departments, you’ll also get to meet a student who can tell you more about what it’s like to study in the department.
We'll show you around our stunning Egham campus.
Completing your UCAS application is an important step on your journey towards university.
We'll give you our top tips on making a successful application, what to look for in universities, deciding what choices to put on your form, completing your personal statement for 2026 entry and much more.
Hear about Royal Holloway from those who know us best - our current students!
Whether you have a question on something you've heard so far, or want to know what a typical day looks like when you're studying here, a panel of our current students will be on hand to fill you in with all the details.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/royal-holloway-phd-alum-receives-international-early-career-researcher-prize-for-his-breakthrough-research:
Royal Holloway PhD alum receives international early career researcher prize for his breakthrough research
Dr Knapp received the prestigious Bryan R.
Coles Prize 2025 award in recognition of his transformative PhD research in quantum materials.
Dr Knapp received the Bryan R.
Coles Prize 2025 award at the International Conference on Strongly Correlated Electron Systems 2025 in recognition of his transformative PhD research in quantum materials.
As part of his postgraduate research at the Department of Physics at Royal Holloway, Dr Knapp made a series of landmark discoveries in the field of low-temperature physics and his research led to the identification of a new magnetic quantum state .
Dr Knapp said: “My time at Royal Holloway was transformative.
It gave me the freedom to explore bold ideas and the support to turn them into real discoveries.
I’m excited to build on that foundation in the future, developing tools to probe quantum matter at the lowest temperatures imaginable.”
Professor John Saunders, his PhD supervisor at Royal Holloway in the Department of Physics, added: “Jan’s work at Royal Holloway was nothing short of ground-breaking and he was a key member of the team.
“His ability to uncover new physical phenomena and interpret them with clarity is rare.
I’m incredibly proud to see his contributions recognised on the international stage.”
Dr Knapp has also been awarded a prestigious Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship at the Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, Dresden , where he will continue his exploration of strongly correlated electron systems.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/royal-holloway-awarded-bronze-accreditation-for-carbon-literate-education:
Royal Holloway awarded Bronze accreditation for Carbon Literate Education
Royal Holloway, University of London, has been officially recognised as a Bronze Carbon Literate Educator, marking a significant step in its mission to embed climate awareness and action into everyday university life.
Royal Holloway is awarded Bronze accreditation for Carbon Literate Education.
The accreditation, awarded by The Carbon Literacy Project , celebrates institutions that actively promote understanding of carbon emissions and empower their communities to make sustainable choices.
It reflects Royal Holloway’s growing commitment to tackling climate change through education, training, and cultural transformation.
Since launching Carbon Literacy Training in 2021, the university has trained over 230 students, staff, and external partners.
These sessions, held at least twice a year, offer a day’s worth of learning focused on the environmental impact of daily activities and how individuals and organisations can reduce their carbon footprint.
Professor Sigrun Wagner , who specialises in International Business and Sustainability, introduced the training program at the University in 2021 with colleagues from the Department of Drama, Theatre and Dance.
This initiative now enjoys broad support from faculty across the University, including staff from the University’s library.
Professor Wagner said: "Becoming a Bronze Carbon Literate Educator is an important milestone for Royal Holloway.
It shows our dedication to empowering our community to be sustainability champions.
“This training gives people the knowledge and confidence to make greener choices – both in their personal lives and in their careers."
Carbon Literacy is defined as an awareness of the carbon costs of everyday actions, along with the motivation to reduce emissions.
The educator accreditation is tiered – Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Platinum – each level requiring deeper commitment to climate action and fostering a low-carbon culture.
Dave Coleman, Co-Founder and Managing Director of The Carbon Literacy Project, praised the university’s efforts: "Carbon Literacy is a vital skill for students entering today’s workforce.
Royal Holloway’s Bronze accreditation shows it’s not just educating – it’s leading by example and helping drive a cultural shift toward a low-carbon future."
With this recognition, Royal Holloway joins a growing network of institutions working to build a more sustainable world, empowering one informed learner at a time.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/people-with-more-life-experience-see-and-digest-everyday-events-more-clearly:
People with more life experience see and digest everyday ‘events’ more clearly
As our brains are continuously bombarded with information, it has to make sense of our experiences by dividing them into more meaningful and manageable chunks, called ‘event segmentation’.
This process is thought to be important for other psychological functions too, like memory, planning, and navigation.
Key to this process are event boundaries: moments when something meaningful or unexpected changes in the environment.
For example, a person’s goal, a new place, or a sudden change in how we feel.
The new study ‘Individual differences in experiential diversity shape event segmentation granularity’ , published in iScience, investigated whether this can be partly explained by the diversity of our everyday experiences.
For instance, do people who live in more varied and changeable environments notice more events throughout the day, or do they merge them together.
To test this, 157 young adults watched the short Hitchcock thriller, ‘Bang!
You’re Dead’, a suspenseful film full of social interactions and scene changes.
While watching, participants simply pressed a button when they felt one meaningful event ended and another began.
This gave researchers a measure of how finely people consumed the information.
The participants were also asked about their ‘experiential diversity’; the amount of environmental change they experience in their day-to-day life, both socially and spatially.
For social, this included questions about how varied their social lives were and how many people they had interacted with in the last month.
For spatial, the questions were about the complexity of participants’ home environment, how much they explored new places or ventured around the local neighbourhood.
Lead author, Dr Carl Hodgetts, from the Department of Psychology at Royal Holloway, said: “The study found that people who had more assorted experiences identified more event boundaries, and their brains were able to consume this and know when one event started and ended.
“This suggests that living a fuller and more varied life trains our brains to pick up more information around us, and helps to collate the information in a quicker, more digestible way.
“Compared to spatial experiences, social experiential diversity came out on top, suggesting that having a wide range of social interactions alters how we see events (even watching a movie).
“It’s not just about travelling to different places, or taking a different route to work each day, but connecting with a wide range of people which helps us to understand what is happening in our world.”
The researchers will next use MRI scanning to see whether brain activity at event boundaries differs depending on how varied people’s lives are.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/news/uk-study-reveals-insights-into-how-touch-and-feel-books-affect-infants-learning:
UK study reveals insights into how touch-and-feel books affect infants’ learning
The study, funded by the Nuffield Foundation, shows that, while it is acknowledged that reading boosts preschoolers’ vocabularies, little is known about under-2s, who are on the cusp of understanding that names of pictures in first-word books refer to names of objects in the real world.
It was also unclear which book features, such as texture, photos or drawings best support babies’ learning.
The team tested whether photo-realistic images helped children to learn about objects more than drawings, and whether touch-and-feel pages interfered more than non-textured ones.
The study, ‘Can Infants Learn New Words from Picture Books?’ , combined a one-off lab trial and a six-week home trial with 200 infants aged 14-20 months.
It produced three new discoveries.
First, in the lab, infants who read a touch-and-feel animal book were less likely to learn a new word than those with the untextured version, suggesting texture may distract attention in one-trial learning.
Second, in the home trial, babies who saw a touch-and-feel book about clothing were slightly more likely to learn the new words than those with an untextured version.
Textures may have kept babies more engaged across repeated readings.
Third, the home trial found no clear advantage for photo books over drawing books.
Babies learned just as well from illustrations, challenging earlier findings based only on lab settings.
Lead author Dr Jeanne Shinskey, Senior Lecturer from the Department of Psychology at Royal Holloway, said: “This study shows that the design of baby books matters.
Features that grab attention may help, or hinder learning, depending on the setting.
“Studying real-life book-sharing gives a fuller picture than lab trials alone.”
Co-author Dr Jessie Ricketts, from the Department of Psychology at Royal Holloway, added: “Shared reading isn’t just about learning words.
It’s a chance to connect.
Talking during book-sharing supports early language, engagement, and relationships.”
Eleanor Ireland, Education Programme Head, from the Nuffield Foundation, said: “These findings emphasise the importance of supporting parents to establish a regular book reading routine with their toddlers, and that different designs can help keep children engaged and enhance their learning of words.”
The study was guided by an advisory panel that includes researchers, early years professionals, and parents.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/support-us/ways-to-make-a-donation/giving-from-the-us:
Giving from the US
If you are a US taxpayer and would like to support the university tax-efficiently, below are the ways in which you can do so through our partners.
Send checks to our partner 'British Schools and Universities Foundation'
Please download and complete the transmittal form , make your check payable to 'British Schools and Universities Foundation' and send both your check and completed transmittal form to the following address:
British Schools & Universities Foundation 641 Lexington Avenue, 15th Fl.
New York, NY, 10022-4503
British Schools & Universities Foundation (BSUF), Federal Tax ID 13-616-1189, is a charitable organisation approved by the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service under code Section 501(c)(3).
You will receive a receipt for your donation from BSUF and the funds will be transferred to the university every quarter.
The BSUF Board of Directors meet in the first two weeks of March, June, September and December.
Please email us at development@royalholloway.ac.uk to let us know if you have donated by check so that we can acknowledge your gift in a timely manner.
Wire transfer of $5000 or more via our partner 'British Schools and Universities Foundation'
To wire donations of $5,000 or more, please contact the British Schools and Universities Foundation's agent at UBS, 440 Monticello Avenue, 20th Floor, Norfolk, VA 23510:
Anita Hairston anita.hairston (at) ubs.com (800) 522-5782 or (757) 624-3381
Please provide her with your contact information and clearly state that you prefer to support Royal Holloway, University of London.
Please email development@royalholloway.ac.uk to let us know if you have made a transfer so that we can acknowledge your gift in a timely manner.
For donations up to $1000 or Recurring donations via our partner 'Chapel & York Foundation'
Online donations can be made via our partner, Chapel and York Foundation.
There is a 2% donation processing fee.
Therefore, if you wish to donate an amount over $1,000 we would be grateful if you would consider donating via cheque rather than online.
Please visit the website https://chapel-yorkusfoundation.org/donate/ to make any online or recurring donations and select Royal Holloway, University of London from the 'Suggest a recipient' box.
The Chapel & York US Foundation, Inc.
is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organisation.
Donations to the Foundation are tax-deductible to the extent allowed by law.
You will receive a receipt from the Chapel & York US Foundation for your tax return and the funds will be transferred to the university every quarter.
Provision in your will via our partner 'British Schools and Universities Foundation'
If you would like to make a provision in your will or trust bequeathing money to the university, please consult a professional advisor for guidance.
We are not permitted to offer tax or legal advice but can share a sample wording:
I give, devise and bequeath the sum of $XXX or xxx% of the residue of my estate to British Schools & Universities Foundation, a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization with federal tax identification number 13-616-1189 to be used by the Foundation to support Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, which has full charitable status in England with Tax exempt reference number XN69536 for such purposes as Royal Holloway and Bedford New College deems appropriate [or for a specific project].
If British Schools & Universities Foundation is not in existence or is not a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization at the time of my death, then I leave such bequest to Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, which has full charitable status in England with Tax exempt reference number XN69536 to be used as it deems appropriate [or could be a specific project].
Charitable remainder trusts via our partner 'British Schools and Universities Foundation'
If you would like to set up charitable remainder trusts, please designate it to British Schools and Universities Foundation, a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization with federal tax identification number 13-616-1189 clearly stating the preference for the funds to go to Royal Holloway, University of London.
We advise you to consult with a professional advisor for guidance (usually a lawyer and banker) prior to making decisions.
Matching gifts via our partner 'British Schools and Universities Foundation'
Please advise your matching company that the check they send to British Schools and Universities Foundation matching your donation must indicate your name and the institution you prefer to benefit.
The information required by many Matching Grant programs is as follows: Website: bsuf.org; Main Address: 641 Lexington Avenue, 15th Fl.
New York, NY, 10022-4503 ; Email address: exec (at) bsuf.org; TIN: 13-616-1189
Many companies with matching gift programs do not provide information identifying the original donor when matches are forwarded to BSUF.
This can make it extremely difficult, if not impossible, for BSUF to pair matching gifts with donors and preferences.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/contact-us/update-your-details:
Update your details and communication preferences
Complete the form below to stay up to date with the latest University and alumni news, events and the ways you can get involved in life at Royal Holloway.
The College is required by law to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation 2018.
Details submitted via this form will be handled in line with the Development and Alumni Data protection and Privacy Statement .
If you have any questions, please email alumni@royalholloway.ac.uk .
Please allow up to 10 working days for updates to be processed.
Alumni Newsletters will be sent from alumni@royalhollowaycommunication.ac.uk (please note this is a no-reply address) or alumni@rhul.ac.uk, so please add these addresses to your safe senders list.
Please provide information on your education to help us identify you.
Please let us know how you'd like to receive your alumni communications.
You may change your preferences at any time by re-submitting this form.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/alumni-faqs:
Alumni FAQs
Below are the answers to frequently asked questions about alumni services, benefits, communications, events and opportunities to support which we hope you will find useful.
If you have an alumni-related question not covered below, please contact alumni@rhul.ac.uk .
If you have a question about anything not related to alumni/graduates, please refer to the A-Z of other key services within the University to find the most suitable point of contact.
Once you’ve finished your course and received your final results, you can order proof of your results from the Royal Holloway Online Store .
We offer a variety of documents to verify your attendance and achievements, including:
Full details about what information is included on each of these documents, and who is eligible to receive them, is available on the Royal Holloway Online Store .
Certain documents may not be available to students who studied with us prior to our electronic archives being introduced.
Replacement degree certificates
Students awarded a degree by the University of London (e.g.
Bachelor, Master and MPhil/PhD programmes) must order a replacement certificate from the Diploma Production Office directly (tel: 0207 862 8303).
A Royal Holloway Replacement Certificate is only available to students whose degree was awarded by Royal Holloway.
Programmes for which Royal Holloway can issue a Replacement Certificate include:
If you require a replacement Royal Holloway certificate, this can be ordered from the Royal Holloway Online Store .
For further information, please visit Order proof of my award and results .
If you have any questions please contact the Student Services Centre at studentservices@royalholloway.ac.uk or +44 (0)1784 27 6641.
The process for obtaining a reference depends on what kind of reference you require.
A non-personal reference will provide confirmation of your study details, including the dates that you studied at the University, what you studied, and any awards given.
These references are requested directly by employers and, with your consent, the Student Services Centre can provide them with this confirmation.
This is provided through the Higher Education Degree Datacheck (Hedd) online verification service.
A personal reference is written by an academic, and will cover a more personal overview, attesting to your personality and character.
An academic letter of recommendation is associated with moving to another Higher Education Institution or moving on to further degrees.
This letter will focus on specific skills and your academic merit.
Find out more about requesting a personal reference or an academic letter of recommendation.
All reference requests and education verification requests from external third parties are managed through Higher Education Degree Datacheck (HEDD) and its online verification service.
Find out more at Qualification check .
You are an alumnus/alumna of the University if you studied at Royal Holloway College, Bedford College or Royal Holloway and Bedford New College / Royal Holloway, University of London for 100 days or more.
You are also considered an alumnus/alumna if you are a former employee of the University, Honorary Graduate or Honorary Fellow.
If you don’t currently receive alumni communications but would like to, please update your details .
All Bedford College alumni and former staff are automatically members of the Bedford Society .
If you don’t currently receive Bedford Society communications but would like to, please update your details .
Please complete the online form to update your details and communication preferences.
Yes, if we have up-to-date contact details of the graduate, we can send them a message on your behalf, along with your contact details.
Contact alumni@rhul.ac.uk with the name, subject of study and graduation year of the person you are trying to reconnect with and we will try to help.
You can also join our digital alumni platform Royal Holloway Connect to access our alumni directory.
Yes, we can let you know whether there are any existing events you can join with your group, or provide guidance about organising your own reunion.
We can also help to promote the gathering to former classmates, if needed.
Please contact alumni@rhul.ac.uk for further details.
Royal Holloway discontinued the alumni email service on 21 June 2023.
This change was vital in order to improve our cyber security position and enhance the safety and security of our university and our wider community.
As a result, alumni accounts are no longer accessible, and data associated with these accounts has been removed.
Royal Holloway announced in 2022 our intention to close the alumni email service and contacted all affected users between January and June 2023.
Unfortunately, the IT team will not be able to help you access your account.
To stay in touch with Royal Holloway and to make sure you don't miss out on news and events please update your details with us .
Thank you!
You can find out more about how to make a donation, and the areas you can support, here .
If you would like to speak to a member of the team about donating, please contact philanthropy@rhul.ac.uk .
There are a few ways you can volunteer to support the University and our students:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/support-us:
Support us
Royal Holloway’s foundations are built on philanthropy.
Today you can build on the generosity of Elizabeth Jesser Reid and Thomas & Jane Holloway to support our future, and that of students at Royal Holloway.
Whether through payroll giving, a single gift, a bequest in your Will or donations of land, property or shares, you will be helping us continue our scholarships, secure work placements, help disabled students and advance our academic research and special projects on campus and abroad.
Royal Holloway started as a philanthropic mission to support education for all – help us continue it
See how your donation will support specific aspects of our mission to provide education for all
A thank you to our most generous donors in the last year
Support Royal Holloway by giving back today
Help us make the most of your donation

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/alumni-groups:
Alumni groups
Meet up with your old friends and make new professional connections.
Joining our alumni groups helps to strengthen the College community – and it’s fun.
No matter what subject you studied, or where in the world you live and work, there will be other alumni who are keen to connect.
To set up a new group, just contact the Philanthropy and Alumni Relations Department .
We have active alumni ambassadors and groups across the globe - contact the Alumni Relations team for details of contacts in your country.
We are also trying to establish groups in other countries - if you could be a volunteer ambassador please contact us.
Royal Holloway Entrepreneurs - alumni & students
RHBNC School of Biological Sciences - alumni & students
RHBNC Classics - alumni & students
RHUL Computer Science - alumni & students
RHBNC Criminology and Sociology - alumni & students
RHUL Drama - alumni & students
RHUL Earth Sciences - alumni & students
RHBNC Economics - alumni & students
RHBNC English - alumni & students
RHUL European Studies - alumni & students
RHBNC Geography - alumni & students
RHBNC History - alumni & students
RHBNC Maths -  alumni & students
RHBNC Media Arts - alumni & students
RHBNC Modern Languages - alumni & students
RHUL Music - alumni & students
RHBNC Philosophy - alumni & students
RHBNC Physics - alumni & students
RHUL Politics & International Relations - alumni & students
RHBNC Psychology - alumni & students
RHBNC Social work - alumni & students
1970s alumni
The Pioneers (first male undergraduates)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/our-alumni/for-alumni/contact-us:
Email: alumni@royalholloway.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1784 414478
Email: philanthropy@royalholloway.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1784 414478
You can also write to us at Philanthropy and Alumni Relations, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham Hill, Egham, TW20 0EX, UK .
Recently graduated?
Stay up to date with the latest University and alumni news.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/english-language-requirements/pre-sessional-english-language-programmes:
Pre-sessional English language programmes
Thank you for your interest in our pre-sessional English language programme, we're excited that you may be considering joining us.
The pre-sessional English language preparation programme is delivered online by our trusted partner, Study Group.
The programme is designed to improve your English for academic study and develop the skills required for successful undergraduate or postgraduate study at Royal Holloway.
This programme will boost your spoken and written English skills to the required level for direct entry to Royal Holloway, and enable you to meet fellow international students virtually and start to build your own community of support before you arrive in the UK and begin your degree.
You will be offered either the 12, 10 or 8 week course, depending on your English language level and degree entry requirements.
All course options are full time and delivered online through Microsoft Teams and Insendi virtual learning platform.
The Pre-Sessional English Programme is aimed at students holding a conditional offer that requires them to improve their English language level as (one of) the conditions before they start their degree programme.
This programme will use a mixture of delivery methods to provide a supportive and engaging experience.
This will include timetabled live classes with a tutor and as well as self-study activities.
You will also join enrichment activities and have networking opportunities.
You will gain experience in:
This course will aim to:
Your performance will be managed through continual assessment and feedback.
You will complete a variety of assessment tasks to evidence your development in English reading, writing, listening and speaking.
Your work will be assessed using the Academic English Skills (AES) module.
AES has been independently benchmarked against CEFR and IELTS in 2019 by ENIC (formerly UK Naric) and is accepted by more than 50 Universities in lieu of SELT.
You must have a conditional offer for either an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at Royal Holloway with one condition being to improve your English score.
Academic IELTS for UKVI (alternatives accepted):
Please note that some degree options may ask for higher entry requirements, please check with Royal Holloway Admissions, your offer letter or the Royal Holloway website.
All programmes are £350 per week.
Programme length
Induction period
Course start date (excludes induction period)
Course end date
Application deadline
Confirmation (acceptance and payment) deadline
12 weeks
20-22 Aug 2025
26 Aug 2025
28 Nov 2025
16 Aug 2025
20 Aug 2025
10 weeks
3-5 Sept 2025
08 Sept 2025
27 Aug 2025
30 Aug 2025
8 weeks
17-19 Sept 2025
22 Sept 2025
12 Sept 2025
18 Sept 2025
You must hold an internationally recognised English Language qualification at a level that will enable you to benefit from a pre-sessional programme (see entry requirements section above)
To apply, please use the link below, or to find out more about any of our pre-sessional English language programmes, please contact admissions@studygroup.com .
LINK : https://digital.studygroup.com/pre-sessional-english-application?sgDestinationUniversity=royal-holloway-direct-entry#/
To find out more about any of our pre-sessional English language programmes, please contact admissions@studygroup.com .
To find out more information about the course and content, please contact Study Group’s Digital Learning team studentsupportdigital@studygroup.com

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/international-students/visas-and-immigration:
Visas and immigration
Our International Advice Team are here to offer you support and guidance on any immigration or visa related questions that you have before you arrive, while you're studying with us and to discuss your post-study options for remaining in the UK.
Click on the guides below to view our advice or contact us directly.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/international-agents/agent-tagging-request-form:
Agent tagging request form
Please kindly note that this form, its contents and any attachments are intended solely for the purpose of tagging an agent and may contain confidential information.
In certain circumstances, it may also be subject to legal privilege.
Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted.
It is your responsibility to ensure that this form and any attachments are virus free.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/royal-holloway-website-accessibility-statement:
Accessibility statement for the Royal Holloway University of London Website
This accessibility statement applies to the website located at https://royalholloway.ac.uk
This website is run by Royal Holloway, University of London.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
In order to make our website easier to read and navigate, you can change display settings such as:
Please see the following links for more information on how to change the display settings in your browser:
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We are committed to making this website accessible for all users.
Parts of this website are not fully accessible, for example:
If you need information on this website in a different format, for example, accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille please contact the digital team via email
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 7 working days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the digital team via email
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Information about accessibility whist visiting us in person is displayed on our physical accessibility guide website .
If you are attending an Open Day or Applicant Visit Day and have questions about accessibility, please contact us at opendays@royalholloway.ac.uk
If you are attending an interview in person and have questions about accessibility, please contact our recruitment team at recruitment@royalholloway.ac.uk
If you need to contact us by phone, you can do so on the following number: 01784 434455
Royal Holloway, University of London is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons:
The following items are currently not compliant with WCAG 2.1 AA criteria:
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
We have a list of accessibility improvements that is in development and will be implemented throughout 2025 in order to improve the experience for all users.
The next release will be at the end of September and will contain multiple improvements.
Accessibility training materials have been made available to the content editors and will be used when training users on how to create content.
We are working with third parties to remove or improve the accessibility of components that they update.
We have partially implemented a solution called Ally for websites which will enable documents to be converted to different formats such as ebraille and audio format.
This statement was prepared in January 2024.
It was last reviewed in April 2024.
This website was last audited in April 2024.
The audit was carried out by Nexer.
Internally we used Google Lighthouse , this was used across a subset of pages within the website that represent the different template layouts we use throughout the site.
The outcomes of those reports have been distilled into a list of actionable items that we have been working on to improve the accessibility of this website.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/american-foundation-accessibility-statement:
Accessibility statement for Royal Holloway’s American Foundation Website
This accessibility statement applies to the website located at https://www.royalholloway.ac.uk/american-foundation/
This website is run by Royal Holloway University of London.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible, we are working on these parts of the site and are committed to producing an accessible site for all users.
Those parts with accessibility problems are as follows:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille please contact the team via email
We’ll consider your request and get back to you as soon as we can.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the team via email.
If you need to contact us by phone you can do so on the following number: 01784 434455.
Royal Holloway University of London is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
We have a series of training material in place that we are using to educate our content editors in how to produce accessible content.
We are in the process of converting our web hosted documents to alternative versions providing more accessibility options including mp3 and ebraille versions.
We are currently reviewing and improving the accessibility of our websites across the university and will be making further improvements this year.
This statement was prepared on 19/09/2020.
It was last reviewed on 19/09/2020.
This website was last tested in September 2020.
The test was carried out by our internal teams using the Axe accessibility testing tool and manual testing across a subset of pages that represent the different template layouts used throughout the website.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/campus-connect-accessibility-statement:
Accessibility statement for Royal Holloway’s Campus Connect Website
This accessibility statement applies to the website located at https://campus-connect.rhul.ac.uk
This statement was prepared on 13/09/2020.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/epay-accessibility-statement:
Accessibility statement for Royal Holloway’s Epay Website
This accessibility statement applies to the website located at https://royalholloway.ac.uk/epay

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/equella-accessibility-statement:
Accessibility statement for Royal Holloway’s Equella Website
This accessibility statement applies to the website located at https://repository.royalholloway.ac.uk
This website is used by Royal Holloway University of London.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/extensions-website-accessibility-statement:
Accessibility statement for Royal Holloway’s Extensions Website
This accessibility statement applies to the website located at https://extensions.royalholloway.ac.uk
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille please contact the team via email.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/intranet-accessibility-statement:
Accessibility statement for Royal Holloway’s Intranet
This accessibility statement applies to the website located at https://intranet.royalholloway.ac.uk
We’ll consider your request and get back to you as soon as possible.
Some of the content on the intranet will be updated when the platform is next upgraded or replaced.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to make the intranet compliant until there are significant changes to them.
We are reviewing plans to replace the intranet with a more modern platform that gives us greater control over its accessibility.
This statement was prepared on 15/09/2020.
It was last reviewed on 16/09/2020.
This website was last tested on 10/09/2020.
The test was carried out by our internal team using manual testing and the Axe accessibility testing tool on a subset of pages that represent the different template layouts used throughout the site.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/moodle-website-accessibility-statement:
Accessibility statement for Moodle Website
This accessibility statement applies to the website located at https://moodle.royalholloway.ac.uk .
This website is used by Royal Holloway, University of London.
Please see the following links for more information on how to change the accessibility settings in your browser:
We are committed to producing an accessible site for all users.
However, we are aware that there are some outstanding accessibility problems in certain case, and for particular activity types.
Where possible, we are working with the creators of those activity types to resolve the issue.
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille please contact the team via email .
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please contact the team via email .
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, please contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
If you need to contact us by phone you can do so on the following number: +44 (0) 1784 434455 .
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
Our Moodle service is reliant on the open source Moodle application, as well as various third party applications; many of these have their own accessibility statements and include the following:
Moodle fulfills WCAG 2.1 Level AA criteria, and has an accessibility statement .
Panopto have prepared an accessibility conformance report , which details conformance of their web and mobile applications with the WCAG 2.1 Success Criteria.
Panopto also offers accessibility features for their web interface.
Turnitin aim to conform to WCAG 2.1 Level AA criteria.
You can find out more information about Turnitin and accessibility .
Evasys fulfills WCAG 2.1 Level AA criteria, and has an accessibility statement .
You can also find more information about Evasys and accessibility .
Harvard Business Publishing Education have provided the following accessibility statement:
Harvard Business Publishing Education uses the Worldwide Web Consortium’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1, Level AA Conformance (WCAG 2.1 Level AA) as the standard.
We are committed to comply with these standards and working to improve our conformance to these standards.
If a product in use at RHUL is found to be inaccessible for certain learners, the university should notify HBP’s Customer Success team via email.
HBP will evaluate each request and advise on what we are able to remediate internally.
For products owned by external copyright holders, HBP will request accessible updates to be made by the copyright holder.
If accommodations cannot be made, HBP will make a reasonable effort to recommend a comparable alternative from the catalog.
The policy of Talis is to meet and, where possible, exceed WCAG 2.1 Level AA criteria (see the Talis accessibility statement ).
We have a series of training materials and automated tools in place that we are using to educate our content editors in how to produce accessible content.
We are in the process of converting our documents used in Moodle to alternative versions providing more accessibility options including MP3 and e-Braille versions.
It was last reviewed on 18/09/2024.
This website was last tested in June 2023.
The test was carried out by our internal teams using the Lighthouse accessibility testing tool and manual testing across a subset of pages that represent the different template layouts used throughout the website.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/accessibility/ask-royal-holloway-accessibility-statement:
This statement applies to content published on Ask Royal Holloway Knowledge Base .
It does not apply to content on any other Royal Holloway website or service.
It is designed to be used by as many people as possible.
You should be able to:
Parts of this website are not fully accessible.
Contact us if you need content in a different format
In your message, include:
If you find any problems that are not listed on this page or you think we’re not meeting the accessibility requirements, contact us .
If you contact us with a complaint and you’re not happy with our response contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Royal Holloway, University of London is committed to making its websites accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Some knowledge articles contain links to documents.
These documents may not be fully accessible in a number of ways including missing text alternatives and missing document structure.
We use the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines V2.1 level A and level AA to test how accessible Ask.RoyalHolloway.ac.uk is.
We used the Google Lighthouse tool to perform automatic checks of our website.
We will be undertaking further accessibility testing to ensure our website is accessible to as many people as possible.
We are urgently fixing content which fails to meet the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard.
This statement was prepared on 9 February 2024.
Last updated 29 February 2024

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/2025/undergraduate/biological-sciences/biomedical-sciences:
Required subjects: Biology plus another science from either Chemistry, Maths or Physics.
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £28,900
The fee for the academic year 2025/26 is £9,535
**This figure is the fee for EU and international students starting a degree in the academic year 2025/26.
*** These estimated costs relate to studying this particular degree at Royal Holloway during the 202 5/ 26 academic year and are included as a guide .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/biological-sciences/biomedical-sciences-with-a-year-in-industry:
This comprehensive programme will prepare you to join the ranks of biomedical researchers at the forefront of human health investigation.
You’ll study biochemistry, physiology, cell biology, molecular biology and genetics before choosing from a range of optional modules in years 2 and 4, allowing you to specialise and follow your own particular interests.
As a 2nd and 4th-year student, you’ll receive specialist teaching from local health professionals, allowing you to learn more about subjects including neuroscience and clinical diagnosis of disease.
You’ll have the option to embark on a lab-based individual research project in your 4th year, joining a renowned research culture that has seen former students contribute to published scientific papers.
You’ll have access to state-of-the-art equipment for bioinformatics, mass spectrometry and protein and gene sequencing, as well as our excellent imaging facilities, including confocal laser scanning microscopes for 3D live-cell imaging.
Our year in industry degrees are highly valued by employers and they give you the chance to gain first-hand experience of the world of work and to apply your learning to real-world scenarios.
Your year in industry will start at the end of year 2.
The aim of the Year in Industry is to provide the opportunity to gain experience in a working environment, increasing your confidence, expanding your skills and boosting your attractiveness to future employers.
Placements can be taken in a variety of settings, as appropriate to your interests and relevance to the degree programme.
Possible settings include the research laboratories of an industrial or research institute employer; you will experience the thrill of conducting research as well as gaining an insight into the process of acquiring funding, organising projects, presenting and publishing results.
Other possible placements include with environmental organisations or consultancies, enabling you to gain a first-hand perspective on the work of the organisation, and to become part of the team during your placement year.
You will take responsibility for sourcing a suitable placement, with support from the School and College; from this experience you will learn about employers’ recruitment priorities.
The placement year provides the opportunity to develop and strengthen a range of professional skills and attributes.
The first year is formative, while outcomes of your second and fourth year contribute one third and two-thirds of your final degree classification respectively.
In your fourth year, you will complete an individual research project supervised by one of our academics, and you may have the opportunity to contribute towards a published scientific paper.
Year three is the placement year.
In your fourth year, assignments include a range of activities, such as preparation of posters, oral presentations, creation of leaflets and podcasts, coursework essays, mock research grant applications and scientific news-and-views articles, as well as analysis of data from online repositories in mini-research projects.
The fee for your year in industry will be 20% of the course fee for that academic year.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/biological-sciences/bsc-biomedical-sciences-with-integrated-foundation-year:
Our Integrated Foundation Year for science is a thorough, skills-building course that will give you everything you need to start your study of BSc Biomedical Sciences with confidence.
Science underpins society and can help us provide answers to fundamental questions.
Our Foundation Year sets you up so that you’re ready to take on those questions - providing you with opportunities to gain knowledge and understanding of how to get started in studying the sciences at university, including Biomedical Sciences.
Once you have completed your Foundation year, you will normally progress onto the full degree course,  BSc Biomedical Sciences.
There may also be flexibility to move onto a degree in another department (see end of section, below).
Biomedical Sciences develops your understanding of the biological basis of human disease and is ideal if you’re considering a career in biomedical research.
You’ll learn essential elements of biochemistry, physiology, cell biology, molecular biology and genetics, centred around human function and disease.
You can choose a pathway to tailor your degree to your own biomedical interests from a range of options taught by experts in their fields.
This degree is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology.
You’ll develop the skills required to conduct standard laboratory procedures in Biological Sciences, including the safe handling of materials in experimental settings, taking into account their chemical properties, including any specific hazards associated with their use.
You will also be able to demonstrate skills in the monitoring, by observation and/or measurement, of a variety of chemical or biological properties, events or changes, of both a quantitative and qualitative nature, together with their systematic and reliable recording and documentation, in the laboratory or the field.
On successful completion, you’ll be equipped with:
Global and Planetary Health is built around global issues.
Each topic will embody issues of global importance and be based on authentic and topical world events.
The module is intended to deliver an interdisciplinary, academically authentic introduction to global issues, which satisfies a wide range of interests appealing to students wanting to progress onto a range of life science subjects.
Therefore, readings and lectures will approach the topics from a life sciences perspective.
Topics covered are likely to include Virtual reality, Health apps, Internet of medical things, Mental Health, Climate catastrophe, Global biodiversity crisis, Technology for monitoring the environment and The ‘One Health’ approach.
The module also aims to help students develop their study skills to succeed on the Integrated Foundation Programme and as undergraduates.
It introduces students to thinking and reading critically.
It explains what it means to be 'critical'.
The module also focuses on writing, teaching students about the writing process, how to find and review literature, how to build an argument in essays, how to use academic English, and how to cite and reference to avoid plagiarism.
Finally, it offers practical advice on planning study work, becoming more organised, and finding further guidance if needed.
Students will learn key topics in pre-HE-level biological and earth sciences through an interdisciplinary, chronological curriculum.
The module content is divided into three broad sections: origins, present and future.
The history of the earth affords the opportunity to learn topics in biological chemistry, metabolism and physiology alongside planetary science and palaeontology.
The second section of the module gives students the chance to learn about key challenges in communicable and non-communicable disease, climate change, biodiversity and the impact of environmental pollutants on human health.
In the module’s final section the focus will shift to the future, and students will learn some of the opportunities presented in the management of ecosystem services, nucleic acid-based technologies and renewable energy sources.
This module aims to develop the mathematical skills of students on Life Sciences degrees with an Integrated Foundation Year, in order to prepare them for their undergraduate degrees.
Students will learn to apply mathematical principles to a variety of applications within Life Sciences, including applications in healthcare, chemistry, microbiology and marine biology.
Each week, students will cover a new mathematical concept and practice calculations in areas including (but not limited to): unit conversions, balancing equations, functions, logs, exponentials and trigonometry.
With each mathematical concept, they will apply the skills they have learnt to real-world situations within the different Life Sciences disciplines.
Students will learn about key topics in pre-HE level Environmental Science, through an interdisciplinary, chronological curriculum.
The course will start with an overview of the origins of the planet, and then consider important concepts in Environmental Science such as nutrient cycling and succession.
Finally, it will consider how the environment and the species within it are affected by human actions and how these effects might be mitigated.
Students will learn about the key systems, e.g.
circulatory, ventilatory and reproductive in a broad range of species including humans, plants and a wider range of vertebrate and invertebrate species.
This approach will allow key chemical concepts to be explored at this level, as well as anatomical and physiological adaptations to life.
They will also learn about the impact of disease on these systems.
This module will be beneficial to the biological science, biomedical science and health studies students, for whom a detailed knowledge of the range of organ systems will enable them to not only extend their knowledge but, particularly for health studies students to put into context the anatomy and physiology that will form part of their practice in the workplace.
This module aims to develop the statistics skills of students on Life Sciences degrees with an Integrated Foundation Year, in order to prepare them for their undergraduate degrees.
Students will learn to apply statistical analysis to a variety of applications within Life Sciences, including applications in geology, ecology, biomedical sciences and health studies.
Each week, students will cover a statistics concept or statistical test and practice calculations in areas including (but not limited to): interpreting p-values and errors, linear regression, Chi-squared tests, Wilcoxon test, and principal component analysis.
With each concept, they will apply the skills they have learnt to real-world datasets within the different Life Sciences disciplines.
In addition to mandatory modules, there will be a number of optional modules available during year 2 and year 3 of your degree.
In your Foundation Year, teaching methods include a mixture of lectures, practical classes and workshops, laboratory classes, individual tutorials, and supervisory sessions.
Outside of the classroom you’ll undertake guided and independent practice.
You will be assigned a Personal Tutor in the Department of Biological Sciences and will have regular scheduled sessions.
In the Foundation Year, you’ll also be assigned a Personal Tutor in the Centre for the Development of Academic Skills (CeDAS).
Assessments are varied; practical exercises, weekly problem sheets, set exercises, written examinations, laboratory reports.
In addition the Foundation Year offers a full range of skills-based training.
For your degree course, teaching methods will include a mixture of lectures, seminars, individual tutorials, and practical field and laboratory work.
Outside the classroom, students will be expected to undertake study to understand the taught material, and to carry out the assessed coursework.
Assessment will be through a combination of examinations, project(s) and practical work.
This course is suitable for non-standard entrants, including mature returners to study with Science qualifications below the standard required for entry to a degree.
Required subjects: Biology A-level At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and Mathematics.
T-levels We accept T-levels for admission to our undergraduate courses, with the following grades regarded as equivalent to our standard A-level requirements: AAA* – Distinction (A* on the core and distinction in the occupational specialism) AAA – Distinction BBB – Merit CCC – Pass (C or above on the core) DDD – Pass (D or E on the core) Where a course specifies subject-specific requirements at A-level, T-level applicants are likely to be asked to offer this A-level alongside their T-level studies.
T-levels
We accept T-levels for admission to our undergraduate courses, with the following grades regarded as equivalent to our standard A-level requirements:
Where a course specifies subject-specific requirements at A-level, T-level applicants are likely to be asked to offer this A-level alongside their T-level studies.
The Department of Biological Sciences is a close-knit community, with our alumni regularly returning to share their knowledge and experience with current students.
Eligible EU and International students tuition fee per year**: £29,900
Foundation year essential costs***: Students are recommended to purchase a laptop before starting their course, to assist with their studies.
*The tuition fee for Home (UK) students taking this Integrated Foundation Year course is controlled by Government regulations.
**This figure is the fee for eligible EU and International students on this course for the academic year 2026/27.
For further information see fees and f u nding and the terms and conditions .
*** These estimated costs relate to studying this particular degree at Royal Holloway during the 2026/27 academic year .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/2025/undergraduate/business-and-management/accounting-and-finance:
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £22,900

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/business-and-management/accounting-and-finance-with-a-year-in-business:
Specialising in Accounting and Finance at Royal Holloway means that you will benefit from the in-depth knowledge of our academic experts, and by electing to spend a year in business you will also have ample opportunities to integrate theory and practice and gain real business experience.
Several of our students have also furthered their studies, specialising in a certain area in their Master's studies, including MSc degrees in Investment, Banking and Finance and Data Analytics.
The exemptions from examinations or credit for prior learning that students are granted will depend on modules chosen and the marks obtained on those.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the tools and techniques of economic analysis to solve common managerial problems.
You will look at economic intuition and its relevance to business problems, and the application of economic principles to strategic situations.
You will consider the constraints faced by business decision makers, the economic consequences of their decisions, and the influence of the macro environment.
You will also examine the benefits and drawbacks of free trade or restrictions on imports and exports across a range of countries with divergent socio-political contexts.
This module introduces the opportunity for you to gain a significant period of work experience as part of their degree programme, enabling them to experience of a range of practical work-based situations and apply you knowledge and understanding of management theory to them, whilst also improving you employability.
An Accounting and Finance degree at Royal Holloway, University of London offers you a route into the accounting profession, and it can also lead into a wider range of careers in business.
By spending a year in business you will also have the experience that employers value highly, as well as having created valuable business connections - recent placements have included industry leaders such as Microsoft, BMW, Dior and PwC.
Graduates entered accounting firms, investment banks, trusts and government departments in roles such as financial analyst, finance broker, government economist and trainee chartered accountant.
The fee for your Year in Business will be 20% of the tuition fee for that academic year.
Other essential costs***: Costs incurred while on your year in business will vary depending on the nature and location of the placement.
For further information please contact the business school.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/2025/undergraduate/classics/ancient-history:
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £25,900

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/2025/undergraduate/computer-science/computer-science:
We cover all the essentials of application development, from programming to software engineering, databases to web development, computer graphics to robotics, and information security.
You will also explore the fundamentals of computing – what computers do, and how efficiently they do it – and learn about a host of advanced technologies, from computer games, digital sound and music, to concurrent and parallel programming, machine learning, bioinformatics, the internet of things, computational finance and more.
From the outset you will be experimenting with programming games, robots, Gadgeteer kits, Subversion, JUnit testing, Scrum-based Agile software and more, in our well-equipped laboratories.
We offer a short-term summer work placement course and a dedicated personal adviser to guide you through your studies.
You will also be welcome to join our thriving Computing Society.
We are proud to be among the few departments in the UK to hold the Athena SWAN bronze award for increasing female participation in computer science.
At the end of year 1 you will have the option of transferring onto one of these pathways (Artificial Intelligence, Information Security or Distributed & Networked Computing), as well as onto a year-in-industry course, or onto our longer and more advanced integrated masters course.
Transferring onto our Software Engineering pathway requires previous programming experience and early permission to take the Software Development course in year 1, rather than Object-oriented Programming.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the principles of human-computer interaction (HCI) and the approaches that can be used to create interfaces matching users' needs and expectations.
You will evaluate the usability and suitability of user interfaces, and build simple prototypes using different media and technologies.
You will consider how perception and cognition influence HCI, and examine tests, such as web experiments.
All students attend laboratory classes on games and robotics, giving you the chance to develop real applications with imagination and creativity..
Most course units have a two or three-hour written examination taken at the end of the year in which they are taught, but around half of your final award will come from assessed coursework, which could include project reports (including the full unit project in year 3), essays, oral presentations and software submissions.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/computer-science/computer-science-msci:
This advanced four-year course offers a thorough grounding in all the latest trends and technologies in the rapidly evolving world of computer science.
You will have the chance to complete an extended final year project on a topic of your choice and it is particularly recommended if you want to go on to postgraduate study or a high-level technical career.
You will also gain a competitive edge over graduates from standard three-year BSc courses.
You will graduate with transferable skills such as problem-solving, programming, team working, analytical skills, time management and self-motivation, and the confidence and ability to tackle real-world problems in a wide range of application domains.
We cover all the essentials of computing and application development, and introduce you to a host of advanced topics, from machine learning to intelligent agents and multi-agents systems, computational optimisation, digital forensics, quantum computing and more.
You will develop full software systems in teams using Scrum-based Agile software development.
At the end of year 1 you will have the option of transferring onto one of our specialist pathways (Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security or Software Engineering), or adding a year in industry to your degree.
We are a highly respected, research-focused department with award-winning teaching.
We offer summer research opportunities and a dedicated personal adviser to guide you through your studies.
We are proud to hold the Athena SWAN bronze award for our commitment to increasing female participation in computer science.
In this module you will have the opportunity to plan and organise a large project, analysing complex ideas, identifying problems, and coming up with solutions.
You will apply scientific principles and use a range of software and hardware techniques.
You will analyse the effectiveness of your solutions and evaluate the results.
You will also consider legal, social, ethical and professional issues.
You can design your own project or choose a topic from a suggested list.
We firmly believe that how we teach you is at least as important as what we teach, and we know the importance of giving you the time and space to experiment and put theory into practice.
All students attend laboratory classes that give you the chance to develop real applications with imagination and creativity.
Most course units have a written examination taken at the end of the year in which they are taught, but around half of your final award will come from assessed coursework, including project reports, essays, oral presentations and software submissions.
Our MSci graduates are highly employable, with a depth of knowledge and practical skills that set them apart from BSc students.
After four years of studying you will be confident at developing large and complex systems, solving technical problems, and analysing complex information.
Your coursework will have honed your team work, communications, time management and self-motivation skills and allowed you to showcase your abilities as an independent researcher and IT professional.
You will have the flexibility to adapt to changes in technology, to innovate, and to critically evaluate the implications of exploiting new technologies.
In recent years, our graduates have successfully pursued careers in everything from network systems design and web development, to business management and finance.
They now work in organisations such as: Amazon, American Express, Apple, Bupa, Capita, CGI-Logica, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Symantec, among many others.
Find out more about what some of our graduates are doing, here.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/computer-science/computer-science-with-a-year-in-industry:
Our four-year, year in industry course will give you the ideal foundation for a high-flying career, with professional experience that will set you apart.
During your extended work placement you will gain skills and awareness that can only be acquired in a real work environment.
Our progressive curriculum will give you the knowledge and technical skills that employers need, and introduce you to pioneering technologies in computer science.
You will graduate with transferrable skills such as problem-solving, coding, team working, analytical skills, time management and self-motivation.
In years 1, 2 and 4 we cover all the fundamentals of computing and application development, from programming to software engineering, databases, information security and artificial intelligence.
We are located in the famous M4 corridor, known as 'England's Silicon Valley', and we enjoy close links with many of its leading technology companies.
If you are unable to complete your year in industry you can transfer onto our standard three-year BSc course.
At the end of year 1 you will have the option of transferring onto one of our specialist pathways (Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security or Software Engineering), or onto our longer and more advanced integrated masters course.
We are a highly respected, research-focused department, with a friendly approach and award-winning teaching.
You will have a personal adviser to guide you through your studies.
You will spend this year on a work placement.
You will be supported by the Department of Computer Science and the Royal Holloway Careers and Employability Service to find a suitable placement.
This year forms an integral part of the degree programme and you will be asked to complete assessed work.
The mark for this work will count towards your final degree classification.
During your year in industry, our careers tutor will visit you twice and keep in touch with your host to monitor your progression.
Your year in industry forms an integral part of the degree course and you will be asked to complete assessed work that will count towards your final degree.
Our year in industry degrees are highly valued by employers because they give you the chance to gain first-hand experience of the world of work and to apply your learning to real-world scenarios.
Our students have enjoyed placements in software companies such as Apple, Microsoft or Symantec, as well as in a range of other sectors, including finance and consulting.
Many have been offered permanent jobs in the same company at the end of their placements, to take up after their graduation.
Computer scientists work in a vast array of fields, including the arts, the media, finance, aerospace health and, of course, the IT sector.
You will graduate with the ability to develop large and complex systems, solve technical problems, and analyse information.
You will have the flexibility to adapt to change, to innovate, and to critically evaluate the implications of exploiting new technologies.
We work closely with our partners in industry who help us keep abreast of all the latest market needs and trends.
In recent years, they have launched careers in everything from network systems design and web development, to business management and finance.
They work in a diversity of organisations such as Amazon, American Express, Apple, Bupa, Capita, CGI-Logica, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Symantec, among many others.
You will be invited to attend jobs fairs and networking events and your personal adviser and the campus Careers team will be on hand to offer advice on career opportunities.
The fee for the year in industry will be 20% of the tuition fee for that academic year.
The fee for your year in industry will be 20% of the tuition fee for that academic year.
Other essential costs***: Costs incurred during your year in industry will vary depending on the nature and location of the placement.
For further information please contact the Department of Computer Science.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/computer-science/computer-science-with-a-year-in-industry-msci:
Our five-year integrated masters course offers a thorough grounding in the latest trends and technologies in the rapidly evolving world of computer science, with the benefits of a sought-after year in industry.
You will have the chance to showcase your abilities in an extended final year project and this course is recommended if you want to go on to postgraduate research or pursue a high-level technical career, or just wish to delve deeper into the subject.
We cover all the essentials of application development and explore the fundamentals of computing, and we also introduce you to a host of advanced theories and technologies, from computer games, machine learning and digital sound and music, to intelligent agents and multi-agents, computational optimisation, advanced data communications, digital forensics and more.
Your supervised work placement can be completed at the end of year 2 or 3.
At the end of year 1 you will have the option of transferring onto one of our specialist pathways (Artificial Intelligence, Information Security or Distributed & Networked Computing).
You will also be welcome to join our thriving Computing Society.
We are proud to be among the few departments in the UK to hold the Athena SWAN bronze award for our commitment to increasing female participation in computer science.
Our campus is located in the famous M4 corridor and we enjoy close links with many of its leading technology companies.
If you are unable to complete a year in industry you can transfer onto our four-year MSci course.
In this module you will develop an understanding of programming and object-orientation concepts.
You will learn about program basics, control flow, data structures, objects, exceptions, and file input and output.
You will consider how to solve basic programming tasks and the need for program documentation, testing, readability and modifiability.
The module will end with adversarial search and constraint satisfaction problems.
You will also be expected to complete guided independent study and group work, including a postgraduate-level extended project in your final year.
You will attend laboratory classes on games and robotics, giving you the chance to develop real applications with imagination and creativity.
Most course units have a two or three-hour written examination taken at the end of the year in which they are taught, but around half of your final award will come from assessed coursework, which could include project reports (including the full unit project in year 3), essays, oral presentations and oftware submissions.
For student taking the BTEC Extended Diploma please click here to see the specific modules you must take in order to meet the entry requirements for this course.
Our MSci graduates are highly employable, with a depth of knowledge and practical skills that set them apart.
Year in industry degrees are also highly valued by employers because they give you the chance to gain first-hand experience of the world of work and to apply your learning to real world scenarios.
You will graduate with the ability to develop large and complex systems, solve technical problems, and analyse complex information.
Your coursework will have honed your team work, communications, time management and self-motivation skills and helped you to showcase your grasp of cutting-edge technologies.
They work in a diversity of organisations such as: Amazon, American Express, Apple, Bupa, Capita, CGI-Logica, Goldman Sachs, Microsoft, Symantec, among many others.
On graduating, you will be eligible to apply for membership of the BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT.
We are also accredited by the European Quality Assurance Network for Informatics Education (EQANIE).

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/computer-science/computer-science-with-integrated-foundation-year:
BSc Computer Science (with Integrated Foundation Year)
This course is available to Home (UK) students and International students who meet the English Language requirements.
Our Integrated Foundation Year will take you through a carefully-designed course to help you to progress confidently onto your undergraduate degree.
Engineering, Physical, Computational and Mathematical sciences underpin modern technological society and can help us provide answers to fundamental questions.
Graduates with these degrees are highly sought after by employers.
The Computer Science Foundation Year provides progressive structures in which you are able to gain knowledge and understanding of approaches to scientific study and your chosen degree subject.
All Foundation Year students take ‘Global Perspectives’, then four subject-based courses provide familiarity with Mathematics and computation – the language of modern science and technology, and key for success in science, technology and engineering.
Once you have completed your Foundation year, you will normally progress onto the full degree course, BSc Computer Science.
On successful completion of your Foundation Year, you may be able to choose an alternative pathway which could include a degree from one of the other departments offering a Foundation Year within the School of Engineering, Physical and Mathematical Sciences.
If you'd like to do this, you may take your Foundation Year Individual Project in one of these other departments.
The degree course you choose to take after progression is likely to depend on the individual project you select during the foundation year.
Please note however that you must take 'Foundation Skills (Mathematics)' and your individual project in the Department of Mathematics if you wish to join a full degree course in Mathematics.
Term 1:
Global Perspectives and Academic Practice provides a survey of world history that identifies key events and ideas from the Enlightenment to the present day through an examination of a range of issues related to the broad theme of globalisation.
The unit takes a broadly chronological approach to the core issues but considers the overarching theme of globalisation from innovative and interesting angles such as the experience and participation of women, the significance of black, ethnic minority or third world perspectives, contributions and experiences, and the role of science as a driver of global interdependence.
The seminars and workshops take the core academic themes covered in the lectures as their starting point but centre around the development of academic skills that will enable transition, ‘upskilling’, confidence building and effective participation in the academic practices associated with humanities disciplines.
This is complimented by weekly tutorials provided by your dedicated CeDAS personal tutor, a suite of skills workshops delivered by the Library, and fortnightly personal tutorials within your chosen academic department.
Mathematics.
The foundation to all sciences.
By engaging in mathematical reasoning you will develop your scientific thinking as well as problem solving skills.
Moreover, you will get to embark on a journey through the exciting world of maths and its application.
This course will provide you with the skills to successfully continue onto a STEM degree.
The course aims to aid you in developing familiarity and skills in differentiation and integration.
The main mathematical topics and concepts in the course are algebra (simplification, rearrangement), sequences and series, number bases, logic, functions, graphing of functions, exponential and logarithm, trigonometry, vectors/matrices, complex numbers differentiation, integration, first order ordinary differential equations, probability, and statistics (mean, variance, normal, binomial distributions).
Whether you are seeking to improve your existing maths skills, or have not taken maths at ‘A’ level, you’ll find these units to be an invaluable platform for problem solving in Computer Science, Physics, Maths and Electronic Engineering.
Knowing how to program is a highly sought-after skill, and is becoming increasingly important.
Also, it is fun.
This course equips you with the basic and foundational skills necessary to be successful in programming.
We mainly use Python, but the skills learnt are also applicable to other languages.
The course will contain foundational programming topics, including: how computers work, introduction to algorithms, basic data structures, control flow, programming libraries, data manipulation, input/output, file manipulation, dynamic structures and objects.
Upon completion of the until you’ll will be able to understand variables, types and simple data structures (lists, strings, dictionaries and arrays), use functions to simply programs and promote code testing and reuse.
Throughout the course there will be lectures, demonstrations, and hands-on problem-solving.
What better way to get a glimpse of the wonders of the universe than a course covering key concepts that underpin all Physics and Engineering disciplines?
In this course you will learn about topics ranging from matter and energy to magnetic fields to random processes.
You will also develop your analytical and problem solving skills through hand-on demonstrations and projects.
The course will contain the following topics: Matter and Energy; Units and Dimensions; Motion; Newton’s Laws; Work, Energy and Linear Momentum; Oscillations and Waves; Electric Potential and Capacitance; Current, Resistance & Power; Simple Electrical Circuits, Magnetic Fields, Inductance and Random Processes.
The aim of this course is to develop basic experimental, programming, mathematical or practical techniques required for scientific degrees.
The course comprises of five twice weekly practical exercises that are to be completed in approximately three hours.
Whilst undertaking the unit you will keep a laboratory notebook, record experimental work, set up an experiments, simulation or software tasks from a script, and carry out and record measurements and/or observations, analyse data and plot graphs using a computer package, and present results and conclusions from your work.
The aim of the individual project is to enable you to engage in theoretical and practical work on an agreed specific area relevant to your chosen discipline.
Topics will be proposed by supervisors from which you can state three (rank ordered) preferences or you may propose your own topic subject to agreement.
Projects will be completed on the basis of a specification agreed with your supervisor and progress will be monitored against the specification in terms of implementation and testing as appropriate.
The project will culminate with a joint Poster Presentation with all students on the Foundation Year.
You will be assigned a Personal Tutor in the Department of Computer Science and will have regular scheduled sessions.
Assessments are varied; practical exercises, weekly problem sheets, set exercises, written examinations, laboratory reports, scientific poster preparation and presentation.
In addition the Foundation Year offers a full range of skills-based training and also the opportunity to take a micro-placement to enhance your employability.
Once you progress onto your full degree course, we know the importance of giving you the time and space to experiment and put theory into practice.
All students attend laboratory classes on games and robotics, giving you the chance to develop real applications with imagination and creativity.
Required subjects: Grade C in Mathematics, Computer Science or Physics At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and grade 5 in Mathematics.
Coursework will have honed your teamwork, communications, time management and self-motivation skills.
Foundation year essential costs***: There are no single associated costs greater than £50 per item on this course.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/entry-requirements/computer-science-applicants-with-btec-extended-diplomas:
Computer Science applicants with BTEC Extended Diplomas
We are happy to consider both the QCF and RQF BTEC Extended diplomas, however as these two qualifications have slightly different syllabuses, there are some specific modules that you must complete to meet the entry requirements for our Computer Science programmes.
You can find information on these specific requirements below:
If you have taken the QCF BTEC Extended Diploma this must be in one of the following subjects:
You will also need to have taken the Object Oriented Programming module and at least 5 of the following modules as part of your Extended Diploma:
However, if you have taken only two of the above modules in addition to the Object Oriented Programming module, then any two of the below modules may replace any one of the above modules (for example, if you have taken four of the above modules including Object Oriented Programming, you must select four of the modules listed below to compensate for the two above modules that are missing):
You will also need to have a minimum of a grade B/6 in GCSE Mathematics.
If you have taken the new RQF BTEC Extended Diploma, taught from 2016 onwards, this must be in one of the following subjects:
You will also need to have taken the Programming module and hold a minimum of a grade B/6 in GCSE maths.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/computer-science/your-future-career/graduate-profiles:
Graduate profiles
Computer Science alumni have roles in world-leading organisations.
Here we profile the success of a few of our recent graduates and discover how far a Computer Science degree from Royal Holloway has helped them go on to lead a successful career.
Data Scientist, UK Tech start-ups
Name: Aswath Shakthi K P Subject: MSc, Data Science and Analytics, 2020 Position: Data Scientist
The institution has a strong reputation for data science research and teaching, high-quality faculty and facilities, ample opportunities for hands-on experience, and a comprehensive curriculum compared to other top universities which offers data science courses.
Additionally, its location near London was a factor in my decision to attend.
The faculty for my course were incredibly supportive, guiding me through the practical application of the topics I studied.
The coursework was designed to take students from a beginner to an expert level in the field.
In addition to the curriculum, the faculty also shared their real-world experiences and the latest advancements in the field, providing valuable knowledge and insights.
Due to the impact of COVID-19, the job market was challenging, but my well-prepared CV caught the attention of recruiters.
The blend of coursework I studied provided me with a unique advantage after graduation.
I took a job at an early-stage start-up, working as part of the founding team.
To prepare for a specific role, it is important to be specific about the role you want to enter.
Focus on strengthening the skills required for the role.
Make a list of these skills and learn and practice them one at a time.
Apply these skills by starting with small projects and keep your Github profile updated.
Once you have honed these skills, work on an end-to-end project, choosing any use case, to build a strong portfolio.
I wanted to learn and research more about Brain-Machine Interfaces and Machine Learning.
I expected that this Master's program would provide me with exposure to Machine Learning algorithms and applications, with which I could develop and improve BMI systems in various ways.
For example, I hoped to be able to analyze large amounts of neural data to better understand brain function, leading to the development of more sophisticated and effective BMIs.
Additionally, I wanted to learn how to process neural signals in real-time and enable faster, more accurate control of external devices.
Furthermore, I aimed to develop personalized BMIs that are optimized for individual users, resulting in better outcomes for patients.
I got what I expected from the Data Science curriculum.
The coursework helped me to apply these concepts not just in biomedical or healthcare, but in other sectors as well.
Technical Lead at JPMorgan Chase
Name: Nana Ntim Subject: BSc Computer Science, 2011 Place of work: JPMorgan Chase Position: Technical Lead
It all started with a recommendation by a friend.
After some online research I discovered Royal Holloway's computer science department ranked within the top 10.
I then paid a visit to the campus and was sold.
The location is peaceful and green with beautiful architecture
I had already made up my mind about computer science by Year 11.
These were the times I had first discovered it and immediately became passionate.
All courses which contained some sort of project work because they made us understand practical applications of computer science.
First year Robotics was the perfect start, taught by Dave Cohen.
We also had a Games project using Microsoft XNA.
In the final year, Fundamentals of Digital Music taught by Chris Watkins was amazing and allowed creative students to showcase their talents.
The module that defined my career path was Computational Finance taught by Yuri.
This is the course that opened my eyes to the world of investment banking and trading.
I began to make career decisions after this course!
The wealth of knowledge I acquired here enabled me to breeze my interviews with Goldman Sachs and eventually Bank Of America.
The final interview with the latter was a big success and they were impressed with my knowledge on trade algorithms, portfolio management and financial instruments like options, futures and other derivatives.
Living off campus in my first year the initial task of finding organising with strangers to rent a house was difficult but an experience worth it none the less.
In my final year being the most important year I lived in Kingswood because i wanted more time to myself to study.
Kingswood is still off the main site but it offered a campus like atmosphere.
Fresher week all three years.
Participating in fashion shows.
Fun at the SU.
The fire alarms :) .
Having breakfast in Kingswood, lunch in Founders and dinner at the hub.
Have as much fun as possible but not at the expense of your degree!
Anything below a 2.1 makes life as a job seeker very difficult.
My contract was subject to a 2.1 and above.
Some people I interned with failed to score 2.1 and their contract was immediately invalidated.
I started work the very day campus closed for the last time, a whole month before graduating.
In my current job, the design phase of any project excites me.
I get to put my creativity to good use.
The most satisfying thing I have  done recently was when I demoed the final product of an application I had been working on for months.
The feedback was good and I was satisfied with my work.
Royal Holloway taught me to be independent, with myself and my thoughts.
I transitioned from needing assistance from a teacher/mentor to fully owning and developing on a piece of work.
My modules in computer science made me an attractive candidate, and it still does.
Companies like Facebook have contacted me for opportunities and particularly stating the fact that a CompSci degree attracted them.
I plan on opening up a games business in the near future.
Software Engineer at BAE Systems Applied Intelligence
Name: Rebecca Merriman Subject: BSc Computer Science (Information Security) 2018 and MSc Information Security, 2019 Place of work: BAE Systems Applied Intelligence Position: Software Engineer
I chose to study at Royal Holloway due to the reputation of the Information Security Group.
The BSc and MSc degrees are all certified by GCHQ and Royal Holloway has one of the most established Information Security Groups in the world.
The department also has great links in industry.
When visiting the university on the open day I could see myself there and knew then that Royal Holloway was the place I wanted to go to university.
Both courses allow you to take diverse modules and projects.
The lecturers were very knowledgeable and experienced in many different topics of computer science and information security and this helped me to gain knowledge and experience in a wide breadth of areas.
The diverse modules in both courses exposed me to many different areas of computer science and information security.
The practical elements of the course helped reinforce knowledge learnt and mimic what the industry was like.
For example, in my second year I had a Team Project where I learnt about using repositories, scrum, architectural models and developing code within a team which are all skills and tools that I now use in my day to day role as a software engineer.
I graduated from Royal Holloway in 2018 with BSc Computer Science (Information Security) and then in 2019 with an MSc Information Security.
I then joined BAE Systems Applied Intelligence as a Graduate Software Engineer.
After I had been there for just over a year I rolled off the graduate program and became a full-time employee.
During my time at BAE I have been working on high-profile and important projects as a front-end and back-end software engineer and tester (using multiple programming languages) using scrum/agile/SAFE agile and the languages.
Make the most of your time at university.
The knowledge and experience of the lecturers and the things you learn throughout your course (both theory and practical components) will help set you up for your career.
If you want an exciting and important job, software engineering is the right job for you.
You will get to work on high-profile and heavily invested projects that will have a big impact on society now and in the future (e.g.
NHS ventilators, unmanned aircrafts and drones and cyber products being used to protect children from abuse).
My greatest achievement to date is graduating from Royal Holloway with BSc Computer Science (Information Security) and a MSc Information Security.
All the hard work and dedication paid off.
Global Head, Convertible Bond Technology
Name: Hiten Rawal Subject: BSc Computer Science, 2000 Place of work: Convertible Bond Technology Position: Global Head
The Founder’s Building!
But also the proximity to London, the calibre of the teachers within the Computer Science department and the general reputation of the university.
The programming courses were interesting as they quickly taught you a core skill in developing applications.
It was interesting that there was a computational finance course on offer - this is very rare within most Computer Science courses but is highly regarded by investment banks.
Shortly after Royal Holloway, I joined the graduate programme at an investment bank, completing an extremely practical and intensive training programme with other graduates including those in sales, trading and corporate finance.
I started out by specialising in developing trading and pricing/risk related software for the front-office.
After about four years I moved to another bank to focus on a new project to build out algorithmic trading systems.
I was fortunate enough to get the opportunity to move to New York through my current role.
We are starting to build out the next generation of our global Convertible Bond sales, trading and strategy system.
Vice President at Morgan Stanley
Name: Louise Zenasni Subject: Computer Science, 2008 Place of work: Morgan Stanley Position: Vice President
I was a mature student and looking for a university with a renowned Computer Science department.
A good environment to study was also very important to me.
After searching for mature student opportunities, I found the Science Foundation Year course offered by Royal Holloway.
It seemed to be very unique at the time and was a fantastic opportunity to enable mature students to study Science.
The beautiful campus and scenic surrounding areas for relaxation also attracted me to choosing Royal Holloway.
After making my choice, I started the Science Foundation Year and successfully passed.
I then began my studies in Computer Science at Royal Holloway, with all the skills I needed to begin my degree.
My time at Royal Holloway unquestionably prepared me for my future career.
The modules taught were a good mixture of theoretical and practical, plus the topics were always up-to-date and challenging.
When I applied for a summer internship, I felt I had all the knowledge needed to secure a place in a very competitive market.
I was able to program a real-life application on my own, directly using the skills I had learnt at university.
This in turn impressed my employers, who offered me a place after graduation.
I have been working in the technology division of an investment bank since I graduated from Royal Holloway.
I started off as a software developer, developing solutions for clients.
I have now progressed to more of a project management role, overseeing technical projects and teams across multiple regions.
My advice to anyone thinking of a career in Computer Science is firstly to focus hard on your studies while at university.
After all, you won’t get the time back again!
Fully understand the subject material and dedicate the time after your lectures to research further.
Computer Science is a difficult subject, and the more work you put in now, the more you will benefit in the long run.
Also, going the extra mile will give you an edge on the competition when applying for the top jobs in the market.
Secondly, I highly recommend doing an internship or industrial placement.
Many institutions offer industrial placements, along with shorter internships during the summer months.
The experience you gain from these are invaluable and will help you immeasurably towards your third year project and ultimately your career.
Data Scientist at Starcount
Name: Andrew White Subject: MSc Data Science & Analytics, 2016 Place of work: Starcount Position: Data Scientist
The programme was open to applicants from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds, and the university made an effort to help everyone get up to speed at the start of the course.
The course supervisors were very accessible during the application process, which meant I was able to make an informed decision about going ahead with it, and I was confident that the course would be well structured and well taught.
The syllabus seemed to be updated every year to adapt to new technological developments and feedback from students.
I always got the impression that the staff at Royal Holloway genuinely cared about their students succeeding.
I work as a Data Scientist at Starcount, a social & customer data analytics startup in London.
I wouldn’t be able to do the job I’m doing now without my Masters from Royal Holloway.
The talks from industry experts put our studies into a commercial context, and also offered useful tips for breaking into the industry.
The amount of time lecturers were willing to spend giving detailed feedback on lectures and coursework assignments.
Everyone was very accessible and they all wanted the students to do as well as possible.
My advice would be to treat a Masters as a first step in the process - it’s a really challenging and wide-ranging field, so you will need to continue studying after you have graduated.
It’s worth the effort, though, as it’s a booming industry with lots of interesting and rewarding roles.
Work on personal projects so you can showcase your skills to prospective employers.
Good academic grades are important, but make sure you also have something else to bring to the table - communication skills, domain knowledge, commerciality.
As a data scientist you won’t just be working with other data scientists - you’ll need to be able to work well alongside non-specialists, so it’s important to be able to communicate complex ideas clearly.
Senior Web developer at Cancer Research UK
Name: David Hughes Subject: BSc Computer Science, 2012 Place of work: Cancer Research UK Position: Senior Web developer
I am a web developer for Cancer Research UK and have worked on the Java behind some of the Race For Life projects and more recently have been asked to help out with front-end maintenance, assisting with tweaks for various subdomains owned by the charity.
My job gives great job satisfaction as I feel like I am making a solid contribution to a good cause whilst at the same time learning a multitude of new things about various programming practices and technologies.
My degree had me study a large variety of courses, including robotics, algorithm complexity, programming paradigms, machine learning and many more.
Whilst I did not specialise too heavily in one particular area, I feel that this strengthened me as a software developer as I am now able to adapt to new challenges.
Now that I think on it, we were told that we would learn how to learn and I am grateful that this is the approach that was taken, especially in a field as ever-changing as computer science.
If you're not sure of something that was covered in a lecture, make sure to ask.
At Royal Holloway, you will be surrounded by people who are either experts in what they lecture or fellow students who you can study together with.
The time you have at uni will fly by, so make sure that you learn things in a timely fashion.
If you glance over some year one robotics, how are you going to implement the more advanced maze-solving algorithms in year two?
Partner Account Manager, Microsoft
Name: David Overton Subject: BSc Computer Science, 1992 Place of work: Microsoft Position: Partner Account Manager
David is responsible for collaborating with a small number of software partners who build and deploy joint software using Microsoft technologies.
I was looking for a degree which gave me a good level of practical and theoretical teaching and Royal Holloway had the best degree in the country for what I wanted to do.
The course had tutors who were well-published and well-versed in up-and-coming technology.
Royal Holloway taught Computer Science in a unique way that was aligned to how I wanted to learn.
Royal Holloway is a very international University  – you realise that the world is much bigger than you ever imagined.
Royal Holloway also gave me a huge breadth of knowledge, enabling me to work broadly in the IT industry, where I have to understand both the business impact and the technological impact of decisions.
I joined Microsoft in 2000 and my role was to engage with customers to explain how our products could help them in complex and often mission critical environments.
When I became Head of Technology for small business, I was responsible for pulling together different parts of Microsoft’s desktop and software products to give them a single view.
My role is to help them work internally with Microsoft and customers so that we both win business.
One of the things I’ve really enjoyed is supporting the graduate recruitment process.
Working and mentoring graduates to help them improve their decision making process and drive their career paths is really fulfilling.
Software Engineer at Discovery Inc (and Magician)
Name: Arshdeep Soni Subject: BSc Computer Science, 2018 Place of work: Discovery Inc Position: Software Engineer Alumnus and Magician Arshdeep Soni has taken TikTok by storm.
A member of London’s prestigious Magic Circle, he seemingly makes the impossible possible and boasts over 8 million followers on the platform.
I was always obsessed with anything related to technology and kept myself up to date with anything new that would be released.
Computer Science was another area where I knew could extend my knowledge of technology and its workings.
Whilst choosing my University options I was recommended Royal Holloway by a friend who’d enrolled a year earlier and after visiting the Open Day, I knew I wanted to study here.
I enjoyed the overall learning experience, and the vast variety of topic options we had within the course.
The lecturers were also very comfortable and easy to work with when we had doubts about the content.
The skills I learnt throughout my time, at Royal Holloway both technical and non-technical allowed me to secure a placement year at Yell, who also offered me a full time job before I had even completed my degree.
Since leaving university I continued working at Yell as a Web Software Engineer for a few years where I was able to expand my technical skills and knowledge even further.
I recently changed jobs in April 2020 just as we neared the first lockdown and started working at Discovery.
During my time at University, whilst also working at Yell, I continued to pursue magic and social media.
Computer Science / Software Engineering, is all about problem solving and working through challenges which is something I’ve always been good it.
It sometimes requires thinking outside of the box to solve certain problems and needs a level of creativity.
Naturally, this course appealed to me the most and I guess that explains why I enjoy it so much.
With the magic side of things, it’s very similar – magic is all about thinking outside the box to create the perfect trick or illusion.
It’s very creative and I always found that both software engineering and magic pretty much go hand-in-hand as they have very similar aspects.
I was shown a magic trick by a friend in a party in 2011, and was instantly mind-blown.
It was one of those moments, where I couldn’t explain what I had just seen, and of course he wouldn’t tell me either, so decided I had to learn something for myself.
I learnt my first very basic trick the next day and immediately showed my parents, and the reaction I received was absolutely amazing.
Just because of that experience I wanted to learn another, and just like that the journey started, learning one trick after the other, like a never ending chain.
I had built a catalogue of tricks and short while after it became a thing that I would carry a deck of cards with me everywhere I’d go.
Shortly after, using the skills I learnt during university I created my very first website: www.arshdeepsoni.com Overtime I perfected the art as much as possible and started performing a lot more as well.
I started doing close-up shows for corporate and private events and built a network of clients.
Ever since I got into magic I really enjoyed learning the secrets behind the tricks and performing on a frequent basis.
Social media was a way to reach a whole new audience by creating videos online and interacting with people.
I started posting consistently on my social channels in around 2014 just before getting into University.
I loved the process of planning a concept, filming the idea and getting into post production with the editing.
I actually started uploading my videos first on Facebook and YouTube, as Instagram didn’t allow for videos at the time.
Shortly after uploading my first couple videos on these platforms, I had one of them sky rocket after it had been shared by LadBible on Facebook.
The video reached over 1 million videos in a matter of days and the response was incredible and after that I knew I wanted to continue this journey.
I was able to focus even more on the social media side of things as soon as I had graduated as I had so much more free time.
I started posting more consistently to Instagram mainly because of shorter form content and was also able to meet more alike people in my field and started collaborating with others.
TikTok came out a short while after as Musically, which I joined and started uploading on pretty much immediately.
I started noticing success on here very early on as their user base was a lot smaller at the time.
I kept posting here as I had a huge catalogue of content from other platforms.
Within a year, I went from 0 to 7.5 Million followers and a few months later I’m now at 8 Million.
The key to TikTok and other platforms is to create, entertaining and sharable, content and also constant collaboration with others, this is what makes the algorithm work in your favour.
Consistency and sticking to a posting schedule is vital to survive on any platform.
My greatest personal achievement to date would definitely be being featured by TikTok on large scale Billboards in London’s most iconic locations, Piccadilly Circus, IMAX Waterloo, Shepherds Bush Westfield, High Street Kensington, Canary Wharf and a few more.
They ran a campaign in early September called “It Starts on TikTok” and chose 5 creators to be part of this campaign, it went live at the end of the month and was promoted pretty heavily on all their social accounts.
Other than this it’s definitely being able to work and collaborate with some of the world's top leading brands such as Burger King, Papa Johns, Juice Burst Mini Cheddars, Fashion Nova and many more in such a short amount of time.
For anyone looking to start a career, business in any field go with what you are passionate about, it’ll open a lot more doors down the line as you actually enjoy what you do.
I’d definitely say, don’t give up so early on, it can be tricky at first to build a foundation in anything, but it’s not impossible and sometimes easier than you actually think.
Alumnus and Magician Arshdeep Soni

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/applying/undergraduate/entry-requirements/creative-writing-requirements:
Creative Writing requirements
American Literature and Creative Writing BA, English and Creative Writing BA and Drama and Creative Writing require an a grade A in one of the following Arts and Humanities subjects:

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/earth-sciences/earth-climate-and-environmental-change-msci:
This course will integrate sedimentary, palaeontological, oceanographic and atmospheric information from the geological and modern record to understand the evolution of the modern Earth.
Students will investigate the climate record through geologic time and what it can tell us about the future challenges of climate change, utilising a varied range of paleoclimatic proxies from both paleontology and sedimentology and looking at the range of climate data.
They will explore the links between climate, tectonics and sedimentary systems.
They will assess the intimate relationship between the evolution of land life and the evolution of the atmosphere.
Under the guidance of a departmental supervisor, you will design and execute an independent research project which will be submitted for examination as a report of 45 pages.
The project will utilise data collected in the field or the laboratory and may involve an industrial placement.
Field-based projects will normally be based on 7-10 days of fieldwork.
Data handling using statistical techniques must be integrated into the project.
You will use departmental facilities to supplement data already acquired or produce their main database.
Emphasis will be placed on ensuring that topics are properly designed before the commencement of the project and that appropriate progress is being made throughout both terms.
Selection and outline of agreed topic and agreed deadline will be presented on a form to be countersigned by member of Academic Staff who will act as a supervisor.
The aim is to equip MSci students (and potentially new PhD students) with the skills and techniques to undertake research.
The course will include scientific ethics, the intelligent and efficient design of research or experiments, including how to capture, store and deal with data and meta-data, project planning, how to publicize your science, press release, video, outreach etc, an Introduction to Unix/Linux and a scripting language such as python i.e.
how to do many things to a large number of files or large files and how to run them efficiently.
Data reduction and interrogation with Igor or R or python with plotting publication ready data to maximum effect.
Uncertainty in scientific measurement and modelling and how to propagate it.
An introduction to basic electronics and interfacing your computer to an experiment and log/capture data, and ending with image capture and analysis.
Graduate destinations will include postgraduate research, climate and environmental consultancy, analytical careers, Government/civil service, remote sensing agencies and regulatory bodies.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/earth-sciences/geosciences-sustainable-energy:
Geosciences & Sustainable Energy
UCAS code: FH62
BSc Geosciences and Sustainable Energy is a new degree designed to provide a clear and distinct pathway leading to a career in shaping society’s response to sustainable energy and the booming sustainable energy business.
On this innovative new degree, you’ll gain the knowledge and skills needed to take an active part in the energy transition and the movement towards building a cleaner and more sustainable society.
The fieldwork programme is designed to provide progressive training over years 1 and 2 in preparation for fieldwork associated with year 3 dissertation projects, involving either geological mapping or environmental data collection.
The fieldwork programme includes year 1 trips to Devon, Pembrokeshire, Charnwood Forest, and Oxfordshire, year 2 trips to Scotland, Almeria, Southwest England, and for Independent Mapping, and year 3 has a trip to either Tenerife or Cyprus.
Earth is a dynamic and evolving planet with a record of plate tectonic and environmental change over its 4.6 billion year history.
This module explores the geological structure and the processes that shape our planet and other planets within our solar system, from the planetary heat engine that powers plate motion and leads to the surface expression of these forces in volcanoes and earthquakes, to the use of maps, minerals and rocks to unlock the story in the rocks beneath our feet.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to analyse geological structures in terms of the deformational mechanisms and tectonic stresses that have produced them.
You will look at brittle failure in rocks, fracture types and propagation, and consider the relationship between principal stresses and geologic structures on small and regional scales.
You will examine remotely sensed continental and marine data sets, and use imagery available in Google Earth for tectonic analysis.
In this module you will develop advanced geological field skills.
You will carry out a series of activities in an area of igneous and metamorphic rocks, and in an area of sedimentary rocks.
You will learn to describe and interpret the origin of the rock types in the field and will prepare a geological map and cross-section using standard symbols.
You will analyse structural features using stereonets, and infer the geological history of a region through the construction of scaled cross-sections through structurally complex terrains.
The purpose of this module is to provide advanced practical skills in the interpretation and synthesis of laboratory and field data, supported by literature research, and to be able to communicate as much through a presentation and report.
The module will introduce the students to the concept of sustainable energy and the main renewable energy resources.
Those covered in the module are geothermal, hydro, wind, solar, and marine energy, the emphasis being on geothermal energy.
The current and potential use these energy resources for producing electricity and space heating will be discussed, with application to the UK where appropriate.
The focus is on current and future use of these resources, as well as on quantitative aspects and understanding some of the relevant physics.
The module covers the basic concepts of energy science, including conservation of energy, basic thermodynamic concepts, energy efficiency, and related topics presented at an elementary (easily understood) level.
An emphasis is on the ideal combination between geothermal energy (which is a steady source – always there) and other but non-steady renewable sources (e.g., solar and wind energy).
This module will introduce the theory and practice of seismic, gravity, magnetic and resistivity surveying methods, and demonstrate their uses in industry.
The main aims are to expose the students to the techniques used in geophysical exploration.
The practical part of the module will allow students to understand the foundations of these methods.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to classify sedimentary basins according to their tectonic mode of formation.
You will learn to explain and illustrate the basic processes of subsidence and uplift in basins formed by extension, and flexural loading of, the lithosphere.
You will also consider how characteristic patterns of sedimentary facies and stratigraphic architecture relate to different basin types and the tectonic processes that formed them, examining the tectonosedimentary history of stratigraphic successions in outcrop and subsurface data.
In this module you will further develop your understanding of igneous and metamorphic geology.
You will look at the characteristics and origins of alkaline igneous rocks, the nature and controls on metamorphic reactions, and the links between metamorphism and tectonic processes.
You will consider hand specimen and thin section techniques for study of minerals and igneous and metamorphic rocks, and examine analytical approaches to the interpretation of metamorphic rocks, including the quantification of metamorphic rates and processes.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the geological evolution of the British Isles, interpreting regional geological history from geological maps.
You will learn to describe rock specimens and examine how palaeoenvironments can be reconstructed using case studies.
You will also consider the application of stratigraphic techniques and use evidence from several different fields of geology to evaluate competing hypotheses for geological evolution.
The aim of the module is to introduce you to the fundamental concepts of physical hydrogeology, particularly the flow and storage of water in geologic structures.
The topics covered include the importance of groundwater in the hydrologic cycle, and fluxes of water between different reservoirs.
The lectures will also cover the aquifer properties (permeability, transmissivity), Darcy’s law, groundwater flow equations and simple graphical and numerical ways to solve the groundwater flow equation, how to determine aquifer properties from pump tests, regional flow systems and basics of groundwater and surface water interaction.
The oceans form a critical component of the global climate system.
They redistribute heat and nutrients around the world and in doing so exert a significant influence on the proliferation of different organisms, regional climatic zones, and the formation of mineral deposits on the seafloor.
In this module you will learn about the physical and chemical constituents of the oceans.
You will be introduced to the types of oceanographic measurements that can tell us how the modern oceans behave, and how this behaviour might be extended into predictions of future behaviour.
You will also learn how to extract and process large oceanographic datasets using open-access oceanographic software.
Teaching and learning is conducted primarily by means of practical classes.
Lectures are used to introduce material and provide a context for private study, while tutorials supplement and reinforce knowledge and understanding.
Field and laboratory project work carried out as individuals or in teams represent valuable opportunities for students to develop in-depth knowledge of specialist areas and help bring the syllabus to life.
Assessment is through a mix of coursework and end-of-year examination in varying proportions, depending on the chosen course units.
Coursework can include literature research reports, fieldwork and laboratory exercises and reports, computer-based research projects, oral presentations and independent dissertations.
The first year is foundational, and marks do not count towards your final degree.
The second and final-year marks do count, with the final year marks being more heavily weighted in order to reward progress and achievement.
In the final year you will carry out an independent research project and write a research report with individual guidance from your tutor.
BSc Geosciences & Sustainable Energy at Royal Holloway, University of London is a new degree course that is structured to prepare graduates for a wide range of geosciences careers, including energy-related jobs in government agencies, energy companies & consultancies, NGO’s, local government and the service industry.
You will develop a broad skillset in renewable energy and resources exploration together with technical skills in the field of subsurface evaluation (geophysics, geology, sedimentology) and geospatial data analysis (GIS), attractive to employers in the energy sector, environmental organisations and many other fields.
Graduates will also acquire a comprehensive understanding of the Geosciences and their importance for understanding current climate and environmental issues and their role in supporting the development of a sustainable society.
Throughout your course you will benefit from our excellent ties with government agencies, international energy companies and local consultancies
Our students benefit from one-to-one advice from a Careers Consultant, and industry representatives regularly visit the Department to provide careers opportunities and advice.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/economics/economics-with-a-year-in-business:
This year will be spent on a work placement.
You will be supported by the Placements Office and the Royal Holloway Careers and Employability Service to find a suitable placement.
However, Royal Holloway cannot guarantee that all students who are accepted onto this degree programme will secure a placement, and the ultimate responsibility lies with yourself.
The fee for the Year in Business will be 20% of the tuition fee for that academic year.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/2025/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/electronic-engineering:
The breakthroughs made by today's electronic engineers help to create the mobile devices, personal media, computers, smart transportation and domestic appliances we use every day, and also have a more profound impact on issues such as energy sustainability, healthcare and information security.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/electronic-engineering-meng:
The fast pace of technological advancement has meant that skilled electronic engineers are vital to create and develop the domestic appliances, personal media and mobile devices we use every day, and also address far-reaching issues such as Information security, energy sustainability and healthcare.
Our four-year Masters degree in Electronic Engineering, provides the skills and experience you'll need to make your mark in an exciting, fast-growing sector.
Graduates are heavily in demand, with exciting opportunities for those with up-to-date knowledge, practical skills and fresh ideas.
You'll join a research-led teaching environment where academics encourage creative thought and will help you to realise and develop your ideas.
You'll study in our purpose designed Electronic Engineering building, where a £20 million investment has secured state-of-the-art equipment and facilities - including dedicated research spaces and a wind turbine laboratory.
Become a part of our vibrant, international student community and prepare for a rewarding career in your chosen field.
A Masters in Electronic Engineering will make you an attractive candidate for employers in a variety of fields, giving you the transferable skills and knowledge you need to thrive in the workplace.
In this module you will work on a practical problem relevant to tomorrow's societal needs.
Working in groups, you will classify the performance of systems and components through the use of analytical methods and practical modelling techniques in the context of your chosen project topic.
The working practice of your group will be modelled on industrial practices in terms of planning, keeping proper records of meetings and the progress of work, and you will take on an individual role within the team that is vital to the professional and successful running of the project.
You will compare and assess different design processes and methodologies and working successfully as a group member you will exercise initiative, leadership, time management and professional decision-making skills.
This module is an introduction to the design needs and software/hardware solutions to modern immersive capture, storage, mixing, rendering and presentation systems.
Students will learn how VR/AR systems are constructed and the audio visual technology behind them.
This module provides theoretical and practical knowledge relating to pattern recognition.
Topics will include Bayesian decision theory, Artificial Neural Networks and Support Vector Machines (amongst others).
The nature of these algorithms will be studied along with engineering techniques for developing smart applications.
Further, deep learning for engineering applications (eg.
classification of electrocardiograms) will be studied and you will undertake a coursework to apply an appropriate machine learning methodology to solve a real-world pattern recognition problem.
This module covers the fundamental of nanotechnology and its impact in electronics.
The indicative content encompasses the principles of quantum mechanics (including the concept of quantisation, the wave-particle duality, and wave-functions), how they interact at the interface with classical physics, why they alter the traditional view of electrons’ behaviour, and why they become significant with the downsizing of electronic devices.
The fabrication and characterisation techniques of the nano-scale electronic devices will also be explored.
All taught modules are worth 15 credit units and there are eight of these in all years except the final year (year 4), where there is an individual project worth 30 credit units.
Gain a Masters in Electronic Engineering at Royal Holloway, University of London and you’ll graduate with excellent employability prospects in your chosen field.
There is an abundance of well-paid career opportunities in Electronic Engineering and related fields for enthusiastic graduates with the right skills and experience.
Our practical, research-led course will give you the knowledge and diverse skillset you need to thrive in a rapidly expanding profession.
Our location within the South East regional hub of technology businesses gives you a great opportunity to pursue student placements, internships and  employment with top UK-based companies.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/electronic-engineering-with-a-year-in-industry:
The digital revolution is changing our lives, and technological advancements are developing at an incredible pace.
Electronic engineers are at the forefront of this revolution, helping to create the smart devices we use every day and tackle issues such as information security, healthcare and energy sustainability.
Study Electronic Engineering with a Year in Industry at Royal Holloway and develop the skills you need to become a part of this exciting sector.
You’ll gain real industry experience, making invaluable contacts you can take into your future career.
Build a robust transferable skillset based on research-led teaching, where you’ll learn from renowned academics in a variety of fields.
You’ll enjoy a blend of practical and theoretical study, working in groups and individually with one-to-one support from your own Personal Advisor.
You’ll study in a purpose designed building, where £20 million worth of investment is providing state-of-the-art equipment and facilities, including collaboration and research spaces.
This four year degree will equip you with the knowledge, skills and experience you need to build a career in an exciting, fast-moving sector, where real-world skills shortages present numerous opportunities for ambitious graduates.
Pursue your interest in the dynamic field of Electronic Engineering at Royal Holloway.
You will be supported by the Department of Electronic Engineering and the Royal Holloway Careers and Employability Service to find a suitable placement.
Electronic Engineering is an exciting, rapidly expanding sector where real-world skills gaps present numerous career opportunities for graduates.
You’ll graduate with excellent employment prospects, and a transferable skillset geared towards securing employment in Electronic Engineering and other related sectors.
You’ll gain invaluable work experience during your year in industry, honing your skills and developing contacts you can take on to your future career.
Royal Holloway, University of London is located within the South East regional hub of electronic businesses, giving you the chance to secure internships, student placements and employment in some of the top UK-based technology companies.
The Department of Electronic Engineering maintains a close connection with industry advisors, meaning that our students benefit from industry-relevant knowledge and skills.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/electronic-engineering-with-a-year-in-industry-meng:
Electronic engineering is at the heart of many systems we use on a daily basis, including mobile communications, computers, transport systems, most domestic appliances, TV, radio, music studios and gaming devices.
Studying an MEng Electronic Engineering with a Year in Industry at Royal Holloway, University of London will equip you with the knowledge, practical skills, and confident verbal and written communication abilities that are key to successful industrial team working.
The additional year in industry will provide extra insight and experience to embark on a fulfilling career creating technical solutions for an evolving world.
This five-year course will see you benefit from research-led teaching that encourages creative thought, helping you to realise and develop your ideas.
You’ll study in our purpose designed Electronic Engineering building, where a £20 million investment is providing our students with state-of-the-art equipment and facilities, including dedicated research and collaboration areas and renewable energy laboratory with wind turbine and solar panels on the roof.
Follow your passion for Electronic Engineering at Royal Holloway and you’ll become a part of our vibrant, international student community, studying at our beautiful Surrey campus within easy reach of London.
This comprehensive course is geared towards giving you the advanced skills and experience you need to thrive in this exciting sector.
In this module you will you conduct a research project exploring a specific topic in electronic engineering.
Topics may include smart cities, robots in industry, the aviation industry, the telecommunication industry, energy in developing nations, controlling complex systems, global communication systems, music technology, renewable energy generation, or cybersecurity protection of physical layers.
The module extends the knowledge acquired in digital systems with advanced topics in the emergent area of FPGA based system on chip design.
The module will cover state-of-the-art features available in modern FPGAs exploring their fine-grained internal architecture and embedded macro blocks such as DSP slices, IPs and hardcore/softcore processors.
A design language based on C/C++ will be presented as an alternative to traditional RTL design (VHDL).
High level synthesis tools will be used to compute signal processing applications.
This module will develop a deep understanding of the design needs and software/hardware solutions to modern immersive capture, storage, mixing, rendering and presentation systems.
Students will learn how eXtended Reality (XR) systems are constructed and the audio visual technology behind them.
All taught modules are worth 15 credit units and there are eight of these in all years except the final year (year 5), where there is an individual project worth 30 credit units.
Study Electronic Engineering with a Year in Industry and you'll graduate with a Masters degree in one of the world's fastest-growing sectors, as well as the invaluable experiences and network of contacts you gained during your placement year.
Royal Holloway, University of London is located in the South East regional hub of electronics businesses, meaning that our students have access to a range of placement, internship and employment opportunities in some of the country's top technology businesses.
Electronic Engineering graduates can enjoy an abundance of well-paid career opportunities in a thriving industry, with the skills and knowledge of enthusiastic graduates in demand across a variety of related sectors.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/electronic-engineering-with-integrated-foundation-year:
BEng Electronic Engineering (with Integrated Foundation Year)
Our Integrated Foundation Year for science is a thorough, skills-building course that will give you everything you need to start your study of BEng Electronic Engineering with confidence.
Our Foundation Year sets you up so that you’re ready to take on those questions - providing you with opportunities to gain knowledge and understanding of how to get started in studying the sciences at university, including your chosen degree subject.
Learning from friendly, expert tutors, you’ll explore modules designed to provide familiarity with Mathematics and computation – the language of modern science and technology, and key for success in science, technology and engineering.
Once you have completed your Foundation year, you will normally progress onto the full degree course,  BEng Electronic Engineering.
All of our lives are touched by the products of Electronic Engineering.
The breakthroughs made by today's electronic engineers help to create the mobile devices, personal media, computers, smart transportation and domestic appliances we use every day, but also have a more profound impact on issues such as environmental sustainability, healthcare and information security.
We're in the midst of a major technological revolution, and as such there has never been a more exciting time to study Electronic Engineering.
Study at Royal Holloway's Department of Electronic Engineering and you';ll have access to a brand new, purpose-designed building, with £20 million invested in state-of-the-art equipment and facilities including labs, collaboration and research spaces.
Electronic Engineering students will enjoy a rewarding blend of practical and theoretical study, working in pairs, groups and individually with one-on-one support from your own Personal Advisor.
Opportunities for student placements, internships and industry relevant projects will be available, and our connection with industry advisors ensures that students are taught the most relevant knowledge and skills and market awareness.
The aims of this module are to develop fundamental practical skills in computer programming and computational thinking using a hands-on approach.
This is an entry-level module and is suitable for those with no prior programming experience.
This module will contain foundational programming topics, including basic data structures, conditionals and loops, functions, and classes.
This module aims to provide some key concepts in physical sciences that underpin all Physics and Engineering disciplines.
The module will start with basic physics principles and will be gradually further developed in the Physical Sciences II module in the second term.
Subjects explored on this module include Units and dimensions, Materials, Motion, Newton's laws, Connected particles, Static equilibrium, Fluids, Thermodynamics and Electricity.
This module aims to provide the mathematics required for a foundation in engineering and physical science, enabling students to progress to subsequent calculus-based courses.
It is designed to help students develop comfort and skill in using mathematical concepts and applying these concepts to problems in Engineering, Computer Science, Maths, and Physics.
Additionally, the module highlights the application of mathematical techniques to topics in engineering and physics.
The main mathematical topics and concepts covered in the module include algebra (simplification and rearrangement), sequences and series, number bases, logic, functions, graphing of functions, exponentials and logarithms, trigonometry, vectors/matrices, and complex numbers.
This module aims to develop group coding project skills of students on EMPS degrees with an Integrated Foundation Year.
This is to prepare them for their undergraduate degrees.
Students will learn to use a modern software development methodology to develop a group coding project.
In addition, students will also learn teamwork skills needed for collaborative coding.
This module is built around global issues.
The module is intended to deliver an interdisciplinary, academically authentic introduction to global issues, which satisfies a wide range of interests appealing to students wanting to progress onto a range of subjects such as maths, physics, computer science and electronic engineering.
Therefore, readings and lectures will approach the topics from an engineering science perspective.
Topics covered are likely to include Neural networks, Micro controllers\robotics, Computer architecture, Algorithms, Astrotechnology, The science of climate change and Industry 4.0 & Society 5.0.
The aim of the module is to provide the calculus and statistics required for a foundation in engineering and physical science.
The module will provide a foundation so that a student can apply calculus to real world problems.
The module also aims to aid students in developing familiarity and skills in differentiation and integration.
The main mathematical topics and concepts in the module are differentiation, integration, first-order ordinary differential equations, Probability, and Statistics.
The aim of this module is to provide theoretical and practical knowledge of digital coding and the networking of data.
The indicative content for this module builds on the Communications Engineering modules and includes lossy and lossless digital coding in the contexts of audio (e.g.
MP3, AAC), video (e.g.
VP8, MPEG, H.264) and combined (e.g.
AVI, MP4, FLV) transmission and storage, as well as the concept of a data network, its geography and the principles behind its operation including: speed considerations, data packets, packet switching, bandwidth, data integrity, error detection, network links, wired and wireless connection, network topologies, communications protocols, routers, switches, firewalls, intranet, extranet, internet, quality of service, resilience and security.
In this module you will develop an understanding of electronic systems for smart living.
You will look at the scientific principles underpinning smart transportation, including sensors, their accuracy and limitations, electric motor design and control systems, batteries and their charge/discharge cycles, RFID technologies, cloud computing, and communication protocols.
You will investigate and develop engineering solutions for smart transportation using a systems approach and examine the developing technologies related to future means of transportation.
You will be assigned a Personal Tutor in the Department of Electronic Engineering and will have regular scheduled sessions.
Once you progress onto your full degree course, in many modules you will carry out practical project work, involving problem-solving using theory developed within the module and electronic circuit building and/or software skills as appropriate.
You’ll continue to work with your Personal Tutor, with whom any issues can be discussed to enable appropriate advice and help to be given as appropriate.
Required subjects: A-Level Grade C in Mathematics At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and Mathematics.
You’ll develop a strong transferrable skillset including verbal and written communication skills, team work and commercial awareness, preparing you for a career in a range of areas within Electronic Engineering and beyond.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/computer-systems-engineering:
Computer Systems Engineering
UCAS code: HG01
Computer Systems Engineering MEng
UCAS code: HG02
Computer Systems Engineering with a Year in Industry
UCAS code: HG19
Computer Systems Engineering with a Year in Industry MEng
UCAS code: HG29
UCAS code: HG0F
Computer systems engineering is a discipline that embodies the science and technology of design, construction, implementation, and maintenance of software and hardware components of modern computing systems, computer-controlled equipment, and networks of intelligent devices.
It is solidly grounded in the theories and principles of computing, mathematics, science and engineering, and it applies these theories and principles to solve technical problems through the design of computing hardware, software, networks, and processes.
Creative technologies are at the core of the multimedia industries, but they are also changing the way we interact with computers and the real world.
For work or entertainment, at home or in industrial environments, virtual/augmented reality is making its way into our everyday lives, requiring new tools (sensors, haptic devices) and approaches (artificial intelligence, storytelling).
This undergraduate degree will enable you to broaden your technological knowledge and understanding in Computer Sciences and Electronic Engineering and equip you with the practical skills that you will need to succeed in this fast moving and exciting area.
We offer a vibrant environment in which you can pursue your studies.
You’ll study a combination of core courses in Computer Sciences and Electronic Engineering to introduce the theoretical knowledge and practical skills relevant to professional practice, with a range of specialist options from computer and network security systems, renewable energy systems, and smart transportation, to voice and music technologies, human factors and healthcare engineering.
The course will engage you imaginatively in the process of learning through creative hands-on group and individual project based activities, enabling you to develop your independent critical thinking and judgement.
As well as the fundamentals of computer technologies and electrical/electronic engineering techniques, you’ll develop an appreciation of how electronics and computer systems engineering is the heart of many systems used on a daily basis, including mobile communications systems, computer system, transport systems, energy systems, software engineering, medical applications, domestic appliances, TV, radio, music studios and gaming devices.
Teaching activities will include lectures, tutorials, and seminars.
Practical project work will be carried out in groups and individually in purpose-built thinking, prototyping and fabrication laboratories.
In particular, the underlying principles of the course are the development of creative skills in the context of proposing ingenious solutions to tomorrow’s problems prior to the prototype and product development stages.
Various assessment methods will be used including examinations for theoretical subjects, formal presentations, reports and practical demonstrations for project work with an additional viva voce examinations for final year individual projects.
In addition, you will be involved in workshops and will produce various forms of creative work.
You will contribute to group presentations and demonstrations for the assessment of group project work.
Graduates of Computer Systems Engineering have excellent employment prospects, with an abundance of well-paid job opportunities in a variety of sectors struggling to cope with a significant skills shortage.
You’ll develop technological knowledge and a strong transferable skillset including verbal and written communication skills, team work and commercial awareness, preparing you for a career in a range of areas within computer technology industries and beyond.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/computer-systems-engineering-meng:
Teaching activities will include lectures, workshops and seminars and practical project work will be carried out in groups and individually in purpose-built thinking, prototyping and fabrication laboratories.
In particular, the underlying principles of the course are the exploitation and development of creative skills in the context of proposing ingenious solutions to emerging problems prior to the prototype and product development stages.
This degree will equip you with the technical knowledge, practical skills and confident verbal and written communication abilities, as well as transferable decision making skills in new, complex and unpredictable situations in industrial team working.
You will graduate with a skillset that will fully meet the demands required for employment in industry, including the development of new ideas, and experience in the application of creativity in solving computer systems engineering problems.
You will acquire an awareness of environmental and social issues, investigating new materials and using them in ways that have a beneficial effect on humanity.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/electronic-engineering/computer-systems-engineering-with-integrated-foundation-year:
BEng Computer Systems Engineering with Integrated Foundation Year
Our Integrated Foundation Year for science is a thorough, skills-building course that will give you everything you need to start your study of BEng Computer Systems Engineering with confidence.
Once you have completed your Foundation year, you will normally progress onto the full degree course,  BEng Computer Systems Engineering.
Required subjects: A-level Grade C in Mathematics At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and Mathematics.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/geography/geography-ba:
Geography BSc
Geography concerns far more than just the physical makeup of our world.
Study Geography at Royal Holloway, University of London and you’ll examine the social, political and economic aspects of geography as well as environmental and landscape issues.
This flexible course lets you tailor your learning in years 2 and 3, offering optional modules including Political Geography, Tropical Savannahs and Gender and Development to suit your interests and ambitions.
You’ll study in a department ranked 5th in the UK for research by the Research Excellence Framework 2021, benefitting from world class research-led teaching by leading academics.
You’ll use state-of-the-art equipment, with world-class facilities for GIS, image analysis, advanced cartography and the physical and chemical analysis of soils, sediments and water.
Pursue your passion for Geography at Royal Holloway and you’ll graduate as an attractive prospect for employers in a variety of sectors, environmental conservation and NGOs to media relations and the Civil Service.
You’ll develop a diverse portfolio of skills to take into your future career or postgraduate study, and enjoy a rewarding three years challenging and questioning key aspects of contemporary society.
Our planet is in crisis.
Hundreds of millions face extreme poverty and negative impacts on livelihoods caused by the intersectional problems of climate change, chemical pollution and loss of ecosystem integrity.
This module will address these challenges through both social and physical science lenses.
First, it will explore the physical science basis of the planetary crisis: climate change, biosphere integrity and chemical pollution, as they reshape the world through space and time.
Second, students will connect contemporary environmental issues to the history of exploration, colonialism and industrial expansion.
Students will learn how to understand contemporary climate politics, who the core actors and structures of environmental governance are, and their links to the economic systems in which we live.
Finally, we will explore how geographers can shape fair and just solutions to environmental issues, and debate what is politically acceptable and how that could change.
This module brings together human and physical geography perspectives to understand the functioning of diverse global ecosystems, the impact of human activity on ecosystems and the challenges of sustainability.
It does this through embedding key biogeographical concepts and notions of development into an exploration of the interrelationships between human societies and ecosystems.
Themes covered include biodiversity loss, food security, ecosystem services and environmental governance.
The module engages students in understanding how knowledge and approaches from both physical and human geography can be used together to evaluate and develop solutions to sustainability challenges.
This is reflected in the end of module workshop which focuses on sustainability solutions and forms the basis of an end of module essay.
This module introduces students to key data collection and analysis techniques in human geography.
Skills are developed in questionnaire design, observation, interviewing, and qualitative and quantitative data analysis.
The module uses lectures and practical classes with students working as individuals and in small groups, encouraging the development of teamwork and independent research skills.
Through class- and field-based sessions, students gain important experience in the practical application of core research techniques, and critically reflect on their use and development in the field.
Assessments encourage detail and rigour in the design, production, and analysis of qualitative material, and help students to build key skills in developing geographical arguments from primary material
Private study and preparation are essential parts of every course, and you will have access to many online resources including the University’s comprehensive e-learning facility, Moodle, which provides a wide range of supporting materials.
We use a range of assessment models to suit different learning styles, from fieldwork exercises and reports and individual and group presentations to coursework essays and examinations.
Study Geography at Royal Holloway, University of London and you’ll graduate with excellent employability prospects in a range of different sectors.
The Department maintains excellent industry links, giving students the opportunity to take part in graduate placements in a variety of fields.
You’ll graduate with a range of skills including analytical, research and team working abilities that will make you a highly employable candidate and our dynamic research culture means you'll be well placed for postgraduate study.
We have excellent careers support in place, and recent alumni have gone on to enjoy careers in wildlife conservation, coastal management and even the media.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/health-studies/health-studies-with-integrated-foundation-year:
Our Integrated Foundation Year for science is a thorough, skills-building course that will give you everything you need to start your study of BSc Health Studies with confidence.
Healthy populations underpin society and can help us provide answers to fundamental questions.
Our Foundation Year sets you up so that you’re ready to take on those questions - providing you with opportunities to gain knowledge and understanding in a progressive structure to get started on your chosen degree at university.
Once you have completed your Foundation year, you will normally progress onto the full degree course, BSc Health Studies.
There may also be flexibility to move onto a degree in another department.
Delivered by our new Department of Health Studies, the BSc Health Studies degree is designed to equip a new generation of health practitioners with the skills to address health protection, health promotion and sustainable living frameworks to address 21 st -century issues that impact human and environmental health.
You’ll be part of a supportive learning environment with small group seminars and tutorials encouraging development, co-operation, and effective team-working.
Through our collaborative approach to learning and practical experience, you will learn how to evaluate, discuss, and practice solution-focused approaches to various challenges that affect health and wellbeing in society.
Your course will include challenge led placements with community, national and international partners, plus frequent opportunities to network and collaborate with local and national partners in the sector, with a focus on developing your employability skills.
There are a number of optional course modules available in year 3 of your degree, these options will be confirmed here.
In your Foundation Year, teaching methods include a mixture of lectures, practical classes and workshops, individual tutorials, and supervisory sessions.
You will be assigned a Personal Tutor in the Department of Health Studies and will have regular scheduled sessions.
In addition, the Foundation Year offers a full range of skills-based training.
At least five GCSEs at grade A*-C or 9-4 including English and Mathematics and one science or biology.
Mature students who do not have traditional study are invited to submit work experience or evidence of further study in line with university accredited or experiential evaluation requirements.
You’ll develop your knowledge of contemporary issues around global population health, the impact on the environment and of the environment as a health determinant with a multidisciplinary approach.
You will graduate with the knowledge, transferable research and employability skills that will make you a highly desirable candidate for employers in a variety of sectors, including employment in the NHS workforce, government health sector, social care as well as NGOs and charities.
This degree will provide you with critical thinking and research method skills, which are paramount in a number of careers.
The degree has a strong vocational strand running throughout, utilising links with local authorities and charities in the health and social care sector.
You will prepare for your future career, whether you are interested in working in a professional role or undertaking future training at the Postgraduate level.
Eligible EU and International students tuition fee per year**: £22,100

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/law-and-criminology/law-with-a-year-in-industry:
By electing to spend a year in industry you will also have ample opportunities to integrate theory and practice and gain real world experience.
This module serves as a comprehensive introduction to the English legal system focusing on building an understanding of the common law approach as a legal methodology and its evolution and influence in England and Wales.
You will examine various sources of law; the civil and criminal justice systems including the structure and function of the courts; the role of magistrates, judges and the jury; as well as the impact of the Human Rights Act on the criminal and civil justice systems.
You will develop legal research skills, including, library and database searches; referencing written work (with OSCOLA) and guarding against plagiarising; and in brief preparing a Moot.
Furthermore, you will work with the Royal Holloway Careers and Employability Service to prepare and present a professional curriculum vitae, and learn how to write cover letters and other documents in a professional format.
The fee for your Year in Industry will be 20% of the tuition fee for that academic year.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/law-and-criminology/llb-law-with-integrated-foundation-year:
Our Integrated Foundation Year for LLB Law is a thorough, skills-building course that will give you everything you need to start your studies with confidence.
Our Foundation Year sets you up so that you’re ready to take on a study of Law - providing you with opportunities to gain knowledge and understanding of how to get started this fascinating subject at university.
All Foundation Year students take ‘Global Perspectives’ and other foundation course modules, then two subject-based modules provide an introduction to the study of law, giving you the critical skills to explore a range of legal issues within identified contemporary debates in the discipline.
Once you have completed your Foundation year, you will normally progress onto the full degree course, LLB Law.
Our Department of Law and Criminology has a reputation for high-quality research and teaching.
Our balanced approach to research and teaching guarantees high-quality teaching from subject leaders, cutting edge materials and intellectually challenging debates.
In addition to lectures and seminars, as new students, you will have a Personal Tutor who will work with you on any issues and we place great emphasis on continuous feedback both orally and in writing.
This module aims to help students develop a critical approach to a range of data types and sources.
Focusing on examples of the ways data is used in Britain in two key social policy areas, crime and health, students will gain experience in presenting and interpreting qualitative and quantitative data.
Students will investigate a number of case studies within these areas, examining the effects of alternative ways of gathering and visualising data and beginning to identify the uses and limitations of different data sources and types.
They will develop an understanding of the way data is used to form judgements and to inform attitudes, policies and action.
This core Foundation module offers an inter-disciplinary introduction to a range of concepts of global significance highly relevant for students progressing onto humanities, arts and social science subjects.
The lectures, seminars and readings will approach each concept from a variety of humanities, arts and social science perspectives and will involve students exploring different epistemological approaches, including but also beyond, those of their own degree subject.
In this module, students will be introduced to a range of ethical frameworks and the philosophical traditions underlying them, examining their methods, concepts, challenges, limitations, and achievements.
After reviewing key ethical theories, the module will investigate a variety of ethical problems and dilemmas, exploring a range of practical ethical topics to connect theories and stances with the nature of the twenty-first-century world.
Students will practice using ethical reflection, insights, and understandings to help clarify and seek resolutions for controversial issues or problems that arise in a particular domain.
This will involve an examination of the way ethical and legal frameworks have been developed for the regulation of issues of ethical concern in areas such as human rights, wealth distribution, technological change, the environment, and human sexuality.
In this module, students closely examine, compare and contextualise a range of texts that deal with the theme of learning.
The core texts: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s novel Purple Hibiscus (2003); Willy Russell’s play Educating Rita (1980); and Alan Parker’s film, Fame (1980), will be accompanied by a range of extracts from a broad variety of text types, from poetry to philosophy to legal documents.
Each week, we will consider a key issue raised by the core text under discussion alongside extracts from other texts.
Students will be encouraged to use the methods of Critical Discourse Analysis in their close reading, comparison and contextualisation of the texts.
The module aims to provide students with a flexible and adaptable framework that enables them to read, understand and interpret texts from any discourse area closely, analytically and critically.
It will support their understanding of the ways in which different text types function and enable them to identify the way genres provide frameworks for audiences to comprehend discourse, assess the means by which apparently similar aspects of the world can be appreciated and understood from different perspectives or positions, and explore the ways in which discourse is used to constitute a sense of being and identity.
The module will also provide opportunities for students to reflect on their own experiences of and beliefs about learning, and to consider their own learning methods and processes as the Foundation Year progresses.
This will support the transition to their degree courses, giving them agency in the process as they think carefully about how they learn, how they might learn more effectively, and how that is affected by cultural, social and economic forces.
The aim of this module is to provide you with a substantive introduction to the English Legal System and the foundational subjects of English law, including Contract Law, Tort Law, Criminal Law, Public and Constitutional Law, and Human Rights.
Each area of law will be taught via a range of teaching and learning approaches, including traditional lectures, to give you experience and practice at note taking in small group tutorial/seminar groups, helping you to interact with the material verbally as well as the chance to benefit from continuous feedback throughout the year, and simultaneously building up experience with the core learning skills needed for your studies next year.
You’ll also have the opportunity to practise the essential vocational and practical skills required for the study and practice of law in small groups, including digesting cases, legal analysis and reasoning, structuring legal problem questions, negotiating skills, and verbal presentation skills.
These skills will be taught and practiced both individually and in larger class discussions and small groups/teams, to replicate the self-reliance and social skills required of law students and future legal professionals.
Assessment is both summative and formative, and you will be provided with detailed comments on essays and other coursework and many modules also have a written examination in May or June.
As well as a career in law, the transferable skills gained will form the basis of a career in criminal justice agencies.
You will be equipped with the knowledge, skills and experiences essential to advance your future career or move on to further study and pursue a career in research and evaluation in academic and policy contexts.
Get involved in extra-curricular activities such as mooting, negotiation workshops, interviewing competitions, our student-led law gazette and our Legal Advice Centre
Studying a law-related degree can lead to careers in a variety of fields as it proves your ability to grasp new subjects and to retain and convey information.
Home (UK) students tuition fee per year*: £5,760 (Foundation Year element only, see below for full details)
Eligible EU and International students tuition fee per year**: £23,700
Foundation year essential costs***: There are no single associated costs greater than £50 per item on this course
The fee for the Foundation Year element of the degree in 2025/26 is £5,760 and is provided here and a guide only.
The fee for Home (UK) undergraduates starting in 2026/27 has not yet been announced, but will be advertised here once confirmed.
Please note that once you move into Year 1 of your main degree, you will be charged the standard undergraduate fee for that year.
The Government has not yet announced what that fee will be, but for guidance only, in 2025/26 it is £9,535.
**This figure is the fee for EU and international students on this course for the academic year 2026/27.
For further information see fees and funding .
+44 (0)1784 276883

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/liberal-arts/liberal-arts-with-an-international-year:
A Liberal Arts degree is ideal for creative and inquisitive individuals who have a wide range of interests.
Choosing to take this highly-prized yet rarely available degree at Royal Holloway will provide you with the opportunity to create a bespoke course that is perfectly aligned to your individual interests and passions.
This degree is truly interdisciplinary and will allow you to have adopt either a concentrated or a broad focus in your studies, as you choose from a vast range of subjects available across the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
The core courses will enable you to connect with your fellow Liberal Arts students and provide you with a strong foundation upon which to base your chosen studies, and you will prompted to think about how to bring different disciplines into conversation with each other.
In addition, you will study a Modern European language, either as a beginner or at an advanced level for at least the first year; after that you can choose whether to develop your language skills further throughout your degree.
On this course you will also develop your global perspective by spending a year abroad studying in English, taking advantage of the partnerships we have with many prestigious international universities.
You will spend this year studying abroad.
Royal Holloway has a number of formal partnerships with institutions in Europe and further afield.
You should be aware that placement at a host institution is a competitive process involving an application to the university abroad, and this process is supported by Royal Holloway.
This year forms an integral part of your degree programme and marks obtained for modules taken at the partner institution will be credited towards your degree.
For more information on optional modules, please see the list here.
Having spent a year abroad you will have developed the kind of sensitivity to different cultures that is highly prized in the workplace.
This experience and the skills gained will make you highly employable and ready to pursue your chosen career.
The fee for your international year will be 15% of the tuition fee for that academic year.
The fee for your international year will be 20% of the tuition fee for that academic year.
Other essential costs***: The cost of your year of international study will vary by country.
Typical living costs to consider will be accommodation, food and household items, entertainment, travel, books and bills (including your mobile phone).
You'll also need to budget for travel to and from your country of study.
Additional costs compared to studying in the UK will also depend on personal choices, and it is important to research the cost of living before the year commences.
Source: National Student Survey 2023

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/liberal-arts/liberal-arts-with-a-language-year-abroad:
You will study a Modern European language (French, German, Italian or Spanish) throughout your degree, starting either as a beginner or at an advanced level, ensuring that you learn to speak and write fluently.
This will prepare you for an exciting year abroad working, studying or both.
This will enable you to immerse yourself in the language and culture and develop a global perspective, taking advantage of the partnerships we have with many prestigious universities or in an approved work placement overseas.
In the event of a no-deal Brexit, we will commit to providing 2019 and 2020 entry students with a subsidy equivalent to current Erasmus+ funding (where this would have previously been funded by the Erasmus+ scheme).
To find out more visit the Erasmus+ page.
You will spend the third year of this degree programme abroad, either studying, working, or both.
It is usually expected that you will spend at least 9 months overseas, in a country where the native langauge matches the language you are studying.
The School of Modern Languages, Literatures and Cultures will support you in finding a suitable study or work placement, but you are also expected to explore opportunities independently.
Alternatively, you may choose to enrol on modules at a partner university in the relevant country.
This year forms an integral part of the degree programme; if on a placement, you will be asked to complete assessed work that will be credited towards your degree; if studying at a partner university then marks obtained for modules taken will be credited towards your degree.
The same applies to the assessment of spoken language on return to Royal Holloway from the period of residence abroad.
As a modern linguist you will also have excellent communication skills combined with the proven ability to communicate fluently in your chosen language.
On graduation you will be ready to pursue a career in a wide range if areas, both in Britain or abroad.
The fee for your year abroad will be 15% of the tuition fee for that academic year if you study or complete work-based placement as part of the Erasmus exchange programme, or study at a university outside of Europe.
The fee will be 20% of the tuition fee for that academic year if you complete a work-based placement in a non-European country.
The fee for your year abroad will be 20% of the tuition fee for that academic year.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/undergraduate/liberal-arts/liberal-arts-with-integrated-foundation-year:
BA Liberal Arts (with Integrated Foundation Year)
Our Integrated Foundation Year for Arts and Humanities is a thorough, skills-building course that will give you everything you need to start your study of BA Liberal Arts with confidence.
Arts and Humanities subjects, like Liberal Arts, provide key ways of understanding our complex world, its histories, and current debates facing contemporary society.
Identity, political and social conflict, our interaction with new digital and genetic technologies, our stewardship of the environment are all issues where the voice of creative and critical thinking are key.
Literary texts, films, plays and digital games offer important ways in which societies have debated - and continue to represent - their values and their futures.
Our Foundation Year sets you up so you’re ready to explore those debates and issues, providing you with opportunities to gain knowledge and understanding of how to approach studying the humanities, including your chosen degree subject.
Learning from friendly, expert tutors, you’ll explore modules designed to give you a solid start to your study of arts and humanities subjects, helping you to grow critical skills to explore a range of literary, visual, and cultural forms, including plays, films, and digital media.
Once you have completed your Foundation year, you will normally progress onto the full degree course, BA Liberal Arts.
The languages available are French, German, Italian and Spanish.
On successful completion of your Foundation Year, you may be able to choose an alternative pathway which could include Single Honours, joint or minor degrees within the Humanities (Classics, Drama, History, English (except pathways with Creative Writing), Media Arts, Comparative Literature and Culture, Philosophy).
If you'd like to do this, you may take your Foundation Year Department Based Project in one of the other departments in Humanities.
This module explores our understanding of the past, and our relationship to it.
It considers the ways our sense of the past is constructed, maintained, and mediated by collective memory, tradition, and representation, before moving on to think about how we understand the past through evidence – the material traces that humans have left behind.
It explores the distinction between ‘the past’ and ‘history’ and considers how both shape our present and influence our future.
Collective memory, tradition and representation produce a powerful sense of the past which can be significant in shaping people’s ideas about the present.
This understanding is often at odds with the approach of historians, who seek to explore the past through evidence and draw conclusions about how people used to live from it.
But this module is not just 'about' history: it is about how we know what we know and how this knowledge structures the world around us.
We will explore both approaches to the past and consider the difficulties that arise when these ways of knowing produce different versions of that past.
This module explores the ways in which experiences, identities and social issues are represented in British film.
It considers the ways that filmmakers engage with contemporary society and the extent to which films respond to, or act as a catalyst for, social change.
Each week we will explore a different topic through the lens of a specific film.
We will contextualise the representation offered and consider how it fits within the longer tradition of filmmaking on that subject.
Since the very earliest days of the cinema, films have captured the public imagination and this module will explore the broader role of film in society.
We will consider the cultural significance of film as a form of leisure and as a method of communication and education.
We will explore the nature of the relationship between filmmakers and the audience, consider questions of funding and censorship, and place film within the broader context of today’s media.
In your Foundation Year, teaching methods include a mixture of lectures, seminars, workshops, individual tutorials, and supervisory sessions.
Outside of the classroom you’ll undertake guided independent reading and study.
You will also be assigned a Personal Tutor, who’ll be with you for the duration of your degree, and will have regular scheduled sessions to support learning and the development of study skills.
Assessments are varied; quizzes, short written exercises, essays, examinations, poster preparation and presentation, blog/vlogs, short digital films, dissertations and personal development plans.
Once you progress onto your full degree course:
In your final year, you will write a dissertation, a long essay based on your own, independent research, which will be up to 8,000 words in length.
Eligible EU and International students tuition fee per year**: £26,800

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/2025/undergraduate/media-arts/digital-media-culture-and-technology-ba:
This module provides a history of the innovations in digital storytelling that have developed over the last several decades, and teaches you the technical skills to produce your own innovative digital stories.
From hypertext novels to contemporary video games, we look at how storytelling has changed since the invention of the internet.
Then, we learn the skills needed to produce several forms of digital narratives including text-based games, interactive video, location-based experiences and social media storytelling.
Students develop a portfolio of both creative and written work.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/2025/undergraduate/media-arts/digital-media-culture-and-technology-bsc:
Instagram created new visual cultures, LinkedIn created new employment spheres, and Twitter has changed the way we discuss politics.
The creative industries are the UK’s fastest-growing economic sector, worth £71.4 billion a year and making up 5.6% of the work force (Department of Culture, Media & Sport, 2014), and within the creative industries, digital media looks set to grow the fastest over the next few years.
Opportunities are everywhere.
A unique collaboration between the Department of Media Arts and Department of Computer Science, this three-year Bachelor of Science (BSc) degree will introduce you to all the key elements of digital media culture and technology, with a focus on the creative and cultural aspects in your course options for years 2 and 3.
It will equip you for an exciting career in this ground-breaking field, giving you the critical and creative skills to excel in media production and an appreciation of the technologies that make it all work.
The courses modular structure gives you the flexibility to tailor your studies to your own interests.
We don't just teach surface readings of today's social media, we give you an understanding from the ground up.
We will help you to harness the power of digital media cultures and work with the latest, emerging forms of social media.
This degree is an innovative collaboration between the Department of Media Arts and Department of Computer Science to enable you to learn from the experts in coding, design and data analytics that form the technical basis of today's digital communications.
We put heavy emphasis on project-based learning and regular industry involvement.
Our broad curriculum will also prepare you for more advanced study in either media arts of computer science, or related fields if you decide to progress within academia.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how computers can be used to solve problems.
You will start by considering variables, types and simple data structures such as strings, sets, lists and dictionaries.
You will learn to use control flow mechanisms such as conditionals, while loops, and for loops, and examine functional and recursive techniques.
You will see how to perform input and output to and from the command line and files, and implement simple algorithms.
You will also examine key concepts surrounding objects, such as the use of classes and inheritance.
In this module you will develop an understanding of the basic concepts of 2D game design and apply them to the development of simple games using an objected-oriented approach.
You will look at the nature of graphics, animation, and motion, considering the use of vectors in these techniques.
You will also examine the fundamentals of game physics, such as collisions, gravity and ballistics.
You will learn through a combination of lectures, seminars, small-group tutorials, screenings, practical workshops and live media practice exercises, including location work, use of our purpose-built TV studio and multimedia and computer labs, group work and guided independent research and study.
Private study and preparation are essential parts of every course, and you will have access to many online resources and our comprehensive e-learning facility, Moodle.
Assessment is both dynamic and innovative, designed to test your creative and critical skills across a wide range of communication platforms.
This could include assessed blogging, short film submissions, programming tasks, PR exercises and responding to live briefs, alongside more traditional written assignments such as essays, scripts or production papers, extended essays, written exams, assessed coursework, and a portfolio of practical work.
Outside the tasks and assessments required by their curriculum, you will be encouraged to take full advantage of our technical facilities, which are available on a 24/7 basis, to build a portfolio of creative work for your future career.
During your studies you will have the chance to hear from practising professionals in lectures, and to make connections through our staff and alumni industry networks.
Graduates from our Media Arts and Computer Science departments can be found in almost every area of the media industries, from TV production to directing, writing, shooting and starring in films, software engineering, PR and brand management, through to games development and web design.
Benefit from networking opportunities and hear from practising professionals during your studies.
Open doors to a wide range of exciting job opportunities, in both digital media and computer science, and the creative industries more broadly.
Other essential costs***: £50 to £350
Source: Complete University Guide, 2023 (Media Arts)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/2025/undergraduate/psychology/psychology:
Preferred subjects: Psychology, Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics or Statistics.
Preferred subjects:
EU and international students tuition fee per year**: £27,500

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/business-and-management/international-business-management-marketing:
The Royal Holloway International Business Management (Marketing) MSc is a rigorous - and rewarding programme aimed at ambitious and self-motivated individuals at the outset of their professional working life who have studied management previously.
It is ideal for those who wish to pursue a postgraduate degree in general management (marketing) with an international orientation and will prepare you to enter the globalised world of work on a competitive footing, maximising your potential and widening your choices.
On graduating you will have a comprehensive and integrated knowledge and understanding of organisations, their management and the marketing environment in which they operate.
The course will focus on an understanding of how international marketing fits into the organisation and running of a company or multi-company corporation.
There is also the option to participate in a field study trip,  involving visits to a range of companies in a different country and an examination of how businesses operate at an international level.
This module will provide you with a strategic perspective on contemporary marketing communications.
To develop a well-founded knowledge base, the module examines the integrated marketing communications tools and techniques, their workings in contemporary (digital) media environment, and their effects on consumers, organisations, stakeholders, and society broadly.
This module provides you with the opportunity to investigate, analyse and make recommendations for a business project related to marketing subject areas, developing the skills to critically evaluate and select the appropriate method to conduct the project.
You will study seven mandatory units in general management over the first two terms.
In addition, you will study three research units, including the Independent Report (6-8,000 words) in the last term, giving you the opportunity to study a Marketing issue in depth.
You will also participate in a developmental unit over the first two terms, and workshops over three terms.
On graduating with a MSc in International Business Management (Marketing) from Royal Holloway you will be in a position to take a variety of different career paths.
This course is accredited by the Association to Advance
                Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) .
This means your qualification is recognised in the industry,
            giving you a competitive edge when applying for jobs.
This course is a CIM Accredited Degree .
On completing
            this
            course you'll be able to apply for exemptions.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/business-and-management/international-business-management-strategy-and-leadership:
The Royal Holloway International Business Management (Strategy & Leadership) MSc is a rigorous - and rewarding course aimed at ambitious and self-motivated individuals at the outset of their professional working life.
It is ideal if you wish to pursue a postgraduate degree in general management with an international orientation and will prepare you to enter the globalised world of work on a competitive footing as a contemporary leader and strategist, maximising your potential and widening your choices.
On graduating you will have a comprehensive and integrated knowledge and understanding of organisations, their management, approach to leadership and the environment in which they operate.
The course will provide an understanding of how international marketing fits into the organisation and running of a company or multi-company corporation.
Studying in the School of Business and Management you will join an intellectually stimulating, friendly and supportive research environment and, through working closely with our expert and experienced academic staff, you will be in a position to realise your full potential.
The aim of the module is to provide students with a critical understanding of theory, policy and practice in the field of leadership and business transformations.
Students are expected to gain a broad appreciation of the major themes and debates in the field.
While the main emphasis is on strategic forces shaping management policies and practices in organisations and the role of leaders/leadership in organizations, the module also explores economic and political factors that shape policy choices.
The objective is to give students a more advanced understanding of the main concepts and models that underpin leadership in business transformation, as well as a critical assessment of the relationship between theories and practices of leading in contemporary workplaces.
With respect to leadership, the concept will be examined from a wide variety of perspectives including approaches to understanding how leadership is distributed across organizations (from leaders as individuals to leadership in groups), decision-making, leading organizational change and innovation, and the ethics of leadership.
This module provides you with the opportunity to investigate, analyse and make recommendations for a business project related to strategy and leadership subjects, developing the skills to critically evaluate and select the appropriate method to conduct the project.
Teaching methods include a combination of digital learning resources, lectures, workshops, coursework assignments, supervised individual project, and guided independent learning.
A variety of formative and summative assessments will be used, including coursework, presentations, quizzes, essays, reports, digital portfolio and an independent project.
On graduating with an MSc in International Business Management (Strategy & Leadership) from Royal Holloway, you will be in a position to take a variety of different career paths.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/business-and-management/news/2024-postgraduate-study-trip-tallinn-and-helsinki:
2024 Postgraduate study trip: Tallinn and Helsinki
The 2024 Postgraduate study trip saw students from MSc International Business Management and MSc Digital Business visit Tallinn and Helsinki for a week of experiential learning focused on international business operations and cultural insight.
Each year, postgraduate students studying on any of the MSc International Business Management courses have the opportunity to take part in an International Business Study Field Trip as one of their optional modules.
The trip gives students the chance to learn about the significant cultural challenges involved in operating businesses across the globe and gives them the chance to visit another country during their studies.
For the 2024 study trip, students headed north for a trip to various countries around the Baltic Sea – visiting Tallinn, capital of Estonia and Helsinki, capital of Finland, with a brief stopover in Riga, capital of Latvia.
This year the group of students from the MSc International Business Management courses, accompanied by their Professor, Hari Harindranath, were also joined by a group of students from the MSc Digital Business course, for a fantastic week of inspiring company visits and cross-cultural, experiential learning.
To prepare for the trip students completed various in-class activities, including learning about intercultural communication and cross-cultural management issues, as well as developing their team/communication skills.
This preparation work was essential for creating positive engagement with the companies and giving context during the course of the visit.
Following the trip students worked in groups to create a reflective presentation outlining their learning, this then formed the assessed part of their course.
The group visited the following companies in Tallinn …
and in Helsinki:
At each company the group heard from a senior manager or two and, where relevant, were offered a factory or site visit.
This experiential learning opportunity gives students the additional benefit of interacting with industry and gaining international exposure - important for employability and networking.
There was positive feedback from all the students who took part in the trip and felt the benefit of having the chance to see such a range of companies, despite the early starts and cold weather!
See below for a few quotes from students on this year’s trip:
To find out more about the MSC International Business Management courses please check the course pages here .
For more information about the MSc Digital Business Course please check here .
Every year we celebrate the students who demonstrate outstanding creativity and strategy in the Final Year Advertising module.
Inside Wincanton: Royal Holloway MSc Logistics & Supply Chain Students visit the Wincanton Innovation Centre in Corby
Eager to begin your Master's journey?
Discover our Postgraduate degrees and meet our team at QS Discover Masters Events across Europe this Spring
In his latest article for The Conversation, Professor Sameer Hosany examines the history and economic success behind the marketing strategies for the most romantic holiday of the year

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/computer-science/artificial-intelligence-with-a-year-in-industry:
You’ll study in a department renowned for the quality of its research.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/computer-science/studying-here/postgraduate/module-outlines:
Module outlines
This is the full list of modules offered in Computer Science MSc programmes.
The list includes both compulsory and elective modules for all of the Masters programmes.
The choice of electives for any student is subject to the constraints described below (and timetable constraints).
Please note that not all electives may be offered in any given year and that pre-requisites based on prior study or academic background may apply.
The list of electives for each student must be approved by the Programme Director.
Electives are chosen to complete each term to a total of 60 credits.
In exceptional cases when timetabling or other administrative reasons prevent them from taking modules worth 60 credits in each term, students will be allowed to take modules worth 50 credits in one term and 70 in the other term.
The programmes are identified below based on the following key:
Modules are identified as Core (C), Elective (E) or Not Available (NA) for each programme.
Column C indicates the number of credits (15 or 30), and Column T the term in which the module will run in 2025-26.
Column N makes the following notes
(1) Compulsory and available only for students who lack background in the corresponding area.
(2) Cannot be taken by Royal Holloway graduates who took a similar module.
(3) Available only to Computational Finance and Computational Finance with a Year in Industry.
(*) Not running in 2025-26
Department of Computer Science (module outlines can be found further below on this page)
Department of Economics (modules outlines can be found following this link )
Information Security Group (module outlines can be found following this link under Course Structure)
The module focuses on presenting and explaining machine learning methods for analysing data.
The first part of the course consists of a quick overview of pre-processing methods and basic statistical concepts, a detailed presentation of simple algorithms for supervised learning, e.g.
linear and logistic regression models, the K-Nearest Neighbours algorithm, and Shallow Neural Networks, and a description of how to provide a statistically sound evaluation of the output of machine learning models.
The second part of the course explores more advanced techniques, e.g.
ensemble methods, and gives an introduction to unsupervised learning approaches, e.g.
clustering.
By the end of the course students should be able to:
Core reading material:
Additional reading:
The lecturers will provide oral feedback during post-practical class discussions.
The students will receive written feedback on their coursework assignments.
Details of coursework submission deadlines will be published on the department website at the start of term.
The course addresses the on-line framework of machine learning in which the learning system learns and issues predictions or decisions in real time, perhaps in a changing environment.
The course teaches protocols, methods and applications of on-line learning.
The following topics are covered:
The main aims of this module are for students to study the underlying principles of storage and processing massive collections of data, typical of today's Big Data systems, and to gain hands-on experience in using large and unstructured data sets for analysis and prediction.
The topics covered include techniques and paradigms for querying and processing massive data sets (Spark, MapReduce, Hadoop, data warehousing, SQL for data analytics, stream processing), fundamentals of scalable data storage (NoSQL data bases such as MongoDB, Cassandra, HBase), working with dynamic web data (data acquisition, data formats), elements of cloud computing, and applications to real world data analytics and data mining problems (sentiment analysis, social network mining).
Basic familiarity with fundamentals of computing along with programming experience in Python at the level of CS5800 or equivalent, or passing the relevant departmental test.
Adequate knowledge of core database concepts including relational databases and SQL at the level of CS5855 or equivalent, or passing the relevant departmental test.
The module aims to teach the principles and arts of statistical visualisation and exploratory analysis of data.
There are principles, theory, and skills to be acquired.
Content includes:
By the end of the module students should be able to:
Business Intelligence (BI) refers to the skills, processes, methodologies, technologies, applications, and practices used in order to leverage (gathering, storing, analyzing) an organization's internal and external information assets to support and improve decision-making.
With the advent of Big-Data there is considerably increased demand for skills and knowledge, both conceptual and technological, that can be effectivelly applied to support this new era of Big-Data based decision-making.
This module aims to provide students with:
Module content:
The lecturers will provide oral feedback during practical sessions and written feedback to coursework.
The course will be structured around a series of programming problems and assignments designed to teach students basics of algorithmic thinking and problem solving using programming specifically dealing with data.
The students will be introduced to the Python programming language features and constructs, which will be put in the context of processing data.
The aim of this module is to teach students a number of database concepts and techniques.
This ranges from the specification and modelling stages to the implementation of relational databases.
The course also introduces students to the usage of databases from software applications.
The content of the course includes:
By the end of this module a student should be able to:
Verbal feedback will be given during the laboratory sessions.
The course will cover fundamental principles of building modern distributed systems, for example in the context of cloud computing or the Internet of Things.
The course will discuss major challenges found in these environments (such as massive scale, wide distribution, decentralisation, unreliable communication links, component failures and network partitions) and general approaches for dealing with these challenges.
The topics covered will include: abstract models (such as the synchronous and asynchronous distributed computing models); algorithmic techniques (such as distributed coordination, fault-tolerant design of distributed algorithms, synchronization techniques); practical case studies.
The students will also have an opportunity to apply the studied material for implementing various components of a realistic distributed system through a series of formative coursework assignments, lab practicals, and a final project.
Oral feedback in laboratory sessions.
The aim of the course is to acquaint the students with several key methods and techniques of machine learning, with a particular emphasis on kernel methods and conformal prediction.
In particular, it will cover the following specific topics.
Nearest neighbours for classification and regression; interesting distances.
Conformal prediction and conformalizing nearest neighbours.
Ridge regression and Lasso.
Inductive conformal predictors and cross-conformal predictors.
Support vector machines for classification.
Kernel trick and its applications to the algorithms covered so far.
Practically useful kernels, including string kernels.
Students will have access to help and oral feedback during practical classes.
Pricing derivatives (and associated strategies of dynamic hedging) is the main topic of this module.
The module is called "computational finance" because many derivatives are too complicated to be priced and hedged using simple mathematical formulae and therefore advanced computational models are required.
The second major topic is risk exposure including the concept of value of risk.
The module aims to teach the concept of an agent and multi-agent system, and the main applications for which they are appropriate; the main issues surrounding the design of intelligent agents and multi-agent society; a contemporary platform for implementing agents and multi-agent systems.
The lecturers will provide oral feedback during tutorials.
The aim of the course is to give students an introduction to deep learning that covers neural network optimisation by gradient descent from first principles, and which also gives a broader introduction to a range of advanced architectures, with hands-on implementation.
The course starts by considering models of artificial neural networks for supervised learning, and introduces notions of activation function, loss function, and computation of loss-gradients using back-propagation with the chain rule.
Neural network learning with back-propagation and different gradient descent algorithms will be covered in detail, and visualised in lab-sessions.
Next, the 'disappearing gradient' problem in deep architectures will be raised, and methods for resolving this problem will be discussed.
A range of deep architectures will be described for discriminative learning, generative learning and learning of representations, and for reinforcement learning.
Students will implement a deep architecture in a project assignment at the end of the course.
This specialist course focuses on acquiring a deep understanding of foundational AI principles and techniques to model complex real-world problems as well as writing algorithms and problems to solve them.
The course will start with an introduction to AI that will define core AI concepts, provide the philosophical foundations of AI and discuss ethical issues in this field.
The course will continue by covering intelligent agents and classical search to then move to local search and optimisation algorithms.
The course will end with adversarial search and constraint satisfaction problems.
This specialist course focuses on acquiring a deep understanding of the principles and techniques that are needed to design and build autonomous intelligent systems (AISs).
The course will start with an introduction to AISs and real-world examples of them.
The course will then tackle autonomous decision making techniques, from AI planning to probabilistic reasoning and Markov Decision Processes.
The course will then cover reinforcement learning and techniques for cooperation and coordination both between artificial agents and between them and human beings.
The lecturers will provide oral feedback during practical sessions.
The aim of this module is to teach the necessary background knowledge and practical techniques - especially deep learning - needed to apply natural language processing to large, real-life text-based projects.
A brief survey of computational linguistic theory will include notions of syntax, semantics, and pragmatics.
Practical techniques for preparing and pre-processing text will be taught in lab sessions.
Typical commercial applications of NLP will be surveyed, with practical examples.
Standard NLP techniques covered will include: use of NLTK and Spacy and other toolkits, and regular expressions, for practical tasks with text corpora; notions of POS tagging, named entity extraction, and construction of word-embeddings.
Recent recurrent deep learning architectures for text processing will be covered in depth, using examples from the research literature.
The design, nature and capabilities of large language models (LLMs) will be analysed, with practical examples.
The main aim of the module is to make students aware of the multitude of ethical implication of advanced technology.
The relevant issues include privacy, data ownership, informed consent, weaponization  of technology, social impact of robotics, regulations pertaining to data protection and robotics etc.
This list cannot be complete or exhaustive, as new issues will be arising through the years.
The module involves presentations by invited experts on ethical issues in technology.
The students should also attend talks given as part of the CS5010 Advanced Topics talks programme.
These will be supplemented by talks on transferable skills related to making presentations and essay writing.
(Due to the irregular pattern of the talks, part-time students do not have to attend all of them in person and can watch the recorded videos; full-time students are expected to attend.) The students will have group and individual sessions with their academic advisors.
The key part of the course is the group presentations made by the students on a technological issue of ethical significance, such as a study of a real-life case covered in the media, discussing implications of a piece of legislation (such as data protection), or a broader issue such as social impact of robots.
By making the presentation and listening to presentations of others, the students learn to identify and analyse issues of ethical significance, appreciate diverse approaches to ethical issues and learn to critically evaluate them.
The students who cannot engage with the group presentations must record and submit an individual presentation.
After the presentation, the students need to write individual essays on a topic of the module.
The module also seeks to develop students’ study skills to make sure the students comply with the University regulations and avoid committing academic offence.
This will be achieved through a Moodle quiz.
Michael Anderson.
Machine ethics.
Cambridge University Press, New York 2011
Rosemary Jay, Guide to the General Data Protection Regulation: a companion to Data protection law and practice (4th edition) Sweet & Maxwell First, London,  2017
Robotics: Ethics of artificial intelligence.
Four leading researchers share their concerns and solutions for reducing societal risks from intelligent machines.
Nature 521, 415–418   (28 May 2015)
Verbal feedback will be given during the supervisory meetings
The aim of this module is to introduce students to reinforcement learning and the progress that has been made in this area during the last 30 years.
The course starts with the question “What is intelligence?” and the abstraction to Markov decision processes is carefully motivated, and the limitations and implausibilities of this abstraction are carefully explained.
Then the standard theory of stochastic dynamic programming is introduced, followed by the (now standard) theory of reinforcement learning in finite Markov decision processes, with a heuristic argument for convergence of Q learning.
Then deep RL is introduced and reviewed, and a selection of major search-based deep RL algorithms (such as AlphaZero) is reviewed in depth.
Finally, there is brief introduction to the commercially important area of contextual bandit problems.
By the end of this module students should be able to:
Reinforcement Learning (2nd edition) by RS Sutton and AG Barto, MIT Press, 2018 (this book covers the theory and algorithms)

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/electronic-engineering/engineering-management-with-cyber-security:
International / EU fees ** : £23,700
Our MSc Engineering Management with Cyber Security enables you to explore software project management issues and address challenges with advanced skills to meet the growing demand from multi-sector organisations seeking a software and digital project management skills set.
This course develops the knowledge and skillset to plan, design, and deliver software management projects on time and on budget.
On graduating you will have knowledge of how cyber security projects are planned, developed and delivered and the ability to deliver a project over a full project lifecycle.
This module will develop your understanding of the current cyber security landscape,considering not only technical measures and defences, but also the other subject areas that apply, including legal, management, crime, risk, social and human factors.
The module examines the role of knowledge in the contemporary organisations and explore the ways it can be used for better data management.
A central element of the module is the discussion of a number of case studies emphasising the cyber security and data analytics application within enterprise-wide approaches.
This module covers the theory and standards of information security risk management in conjunction with governance principles underpinning the management and compliance of risk management.
The knowledge of the frameworks is translated into compliance and compliance monitoring mechanisms for risk management standards and regulations.
Alternative methods for the exploration of risks and their estimation including socio-technical aspects are analysed as well as interactions between risk perception and the incorporation of threat intelligence into risk assessments and risk management.
The dissertation will be on a project management topic.
UK 2:2 (Honours) degree or equivalent.
MSc Cyber Security Project Management requires:
Develop the tools to succeed in today’s digital workplace.
Upon graduating you will have knowledge of how cyber security projects are planned, developed and delivered and the ability to deliver a project over a full project lifecycle.
Our Engineering Management with Cyber Security masters offers a practical and project-based approach to learning and follows a syllabus designed in partnership with national and global businesses to enable and apply the skills they are seeking, enabling our students to make an impact when they graduate.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/scholarships/bedford-society-scholarship:
Bedford Society Scholarship 2025
Three scholarships are available for full or part-time students with home or international fee status.
The scholarships are are funded by the alumni and friends of Bedford College, one of the founding colleges of Royal Holloway and Bedford New College.
Formed in 2013, the Bedford Society aims to ensure the spirit of Bedford College lives on by providing new scholars with access to financial support and opportunities for networking.
This scholarship is now closed for applications.
You must provide a supporting statement of no more than 400 words (please note that statements that exceed the word count will automatically be rejected), outlining why you should receive the scholarship.
You should include:
Your statement will be judged on how effectively and convincingly you respond to the above.
Read our full terms and conditions.
For details of all our individual scholarships read our terms and conditions appendix .

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/scholarships/professor-barbara-raw-masters-scholarships-for-english:
Professor Barbara Raw Masters Scholarships for English 2025
Two scholarships are available for full or part-time postgraduate students with Home or International fee status studying a taught Masters in the Department of English.
You must provide a supporting statement of no more than 400 words which should include:
Your application will be scored based on how effectively your statement answers the above.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/scholarships/the-koppinen-family-scholarship:
The Koppinen Family Scholarship 2025
One scholarship is available for a new full-time or part-time student with Home or International fee status studying MA Creative Writing.
You must provide a supporting statement of no more than 400 words, which should include:
If you have any queries please email rhps@rhul.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/postgraduate/scholarships/dinah-and-jessica-nichols-scholarship:
Dinah and Jessica Nichols Scholarship 2025
One scholarship is available to a new full or part-time student with Home or International fee status studying for one of the postgraduate degrees listed below.
You must provide a supporting statement of no longer than 500 words which should include:
You must also provide a written academic reference letter (up to 200 words) from an academic who has previously supported, taught or worked with you.
This must be emailed on official headed paper to rhps@rhul.ac.uk .
If you have any queries please contact rhps@rhul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/fees-and-funding/postgraduate/scholarships/herringham-scholarship:
Herringham Scholarship 2025
Two scholarships are available to new full time or part-time students with Home or International fee status.
You must provide a supporting statement of no longer than 500 words, which should include:
You must also provide an academic reference letter (up to 200 words).
This must be submitted from an academic who has previously supported, taught or worked with you.
Please ask the academic to email their reference letter (on official headed paper) directly to rhps@rhul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/studying-here/postgraduate/information-security/information-security-with-a-year-in-industry:
Our two-year Information Security programme with a year in industry will equip you with the knowledge and skills you need to join the rapidly expanding field of information security.
We will prepare you to work at the forefront of some of the most exciting developments in 21st century technology.
You will gain first-hand experience of working in professional teams and applying your academic studies to real-world problems and scenarios.
The mass creation, transmission and storage of electronic data is one of the defining features of our age.
Whilst the associated technologies bring us untold benefits, they also expose us to threats that require the specialist skills and experience of cyber security experts.
Our postgraduate Information Security programmes were the first of their kind in the world.
They are certified by GCHQ, the UK Government Communications Headquarters, and led by academics and industrial partners in one of the largest and most established Information Security Groups in the world.
Our groundbreaking ISG is a UK Academic Centre of Excellence for research and home to an Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) Centre for Doctoral Training in Cyber security.
In year 1 you will learn about cryptography, fraud detection, system security, network security, device security and all the technical, legal and commercial aspects of the industry, including how security itself should be managed.
Your second year will include a full-time work placement, which will attract a salary and be assessed towards your final degree.
On returning to campus you will complete a supervised dissertation on a topic of your choice.
If you decide not to complete the second year you can revert to the standard MSc Information Security (1221) and complete your dissertation a year early to graduate at the end of year 1.
Our academic staff are renowned specialists in the field, with backgrounds in computer science, engineering, mathematics, statistics and social sciences.
You will have access to our virtualisation software for experimenting with network security settings and ideas, as well as our Penetration Testing Laboratory and industry-sponsored Smart Card Centre.
We offer a friendly, supportive learning environment and you will have a dedicated personal advisor to guide you through your studies.
The skills you gain will provide a solid foundation if you wish to progress to a PhD.
Our graduates are in demand for their cutting-edge grasp of the field, their first-hand work experience, and their transferable skills such as data handling, analysis, problem solving, research, time management, team working, self-motivation and professionalism.
The MSc in Information Security project is a major individual piece of work.
It can be of academic nature and aimed at acquiring and demonstrating understanding and the ability to reason about a specific area of information security.
Alternatively, the project work may document the ability to deal with a practical aspect of information security.
Projects are assessed on the basis of the written report, and possibly on the basis of a demonstration or evaluation of an artefact such as a computer program.
Alongside the project, a year in industry student undertakes work experience in the security industry for between 9 and 12 months, where they apply their skills and knowledge in the context of a suitable company/enterprise/organisation.
The output from the work experience is a report that provides a factual and reflective discussion of the work experience.
The report is written in a suitable professional format and includes description of the company and role undertaken, providing relevant information on skills and knowledge gained and reflection on the work experience.
We use a range of teaching methods, including seminars, lectures and lab work.
There is a strong focus on small group teaching and practical work.
The programme has a flexible, modular structure, combining mandatory courses with a range of optional modules, optional specialist pathways that require certain module choices, a supervised dissertation, and a year in industry.
Your work placement will begin in the summer of your first year, after your examinations in May/June.
You will be assigned a supervisor by your host company and they will be responsible for directing your work.
You will also have an academic supervisor who will visit you to check that you are integrating successfully, assess your progress and ensure that you are being given appropriate work to do.
Although the responsibility for finding a placement is ultimately yours, our Careers Service will help you to identify suitable opportunities from a large database of companies, make applications and prepare for any interviews.
You will be invited to attend jobs fairs and companies will visit in year 1 to introduce their placement opportunities.
We regularly highlight opportunities through our mailing lists and on social media.
Please note that progression onto a placement is conditional on good academic performance during year 1.
On returning to campus after your placement in year 2 you will complete your MSc research project, to be submitted by September of that year.
Assessment is through a combination of end-of-year examinations in year 1, the written dissertation, and feedback and reports from your assessed year in industry.
Your year in industry will set you apart when it comes to applying for jobs in the information security industry.
By the end of the two years you will have the ideal basis for forging a successful, high-level career or moving on to further postgraduate research.
You will also have first-hand experience of applying your skills to real-world scenarios in the world of work.
You will gain valuable transferable skills such as advanced IT skills, data handling, analysis, research, communication, problem solving, time management, adaptability and self-motivation.
The campus Careers team will be on hand to offer advice and guidance on your chosen career and the University of London Careers Advisory Service organises regular sessions on finding summer internships or vacation employment and securing employment after graduation.
We have a strong track record of helping graduates into successful, high-level careers in a wide range of sectors.
Other essential costs***: Costs incurred by students while on a Year in Industry / Business will vary depending on the nature and location of the placement.
For further information please contact the  Information Security Group.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/law-and-criminology/study-here/studying-msc-terrorism-and-counter-terrorism-studies:
Studying MSc Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies
Your teaching team on this degree are leading names in their fields with networks across the policy, security and tech sectors.
They all have networks across the policy, security and tech sectors and have published widely in terrorism and counter-terrorism.
Read more about the team below.
Elizabeth Pearson is the Programme Lead for the degree, and has expertise in gender, radicalisation and counter-radicalisation.
She leads module CR5113 Debates in terrorism.
See profile
Anthony Richards leads module CR5112 Debates in counter-terrorism and is a key author on conceptualising the terms ‘terrorism’ and ‘extremism’.
Professor Andrew Silke has decades of experience in forensic psychology and leads our CR5116 Psychology of terrorism module.
Andrew Whiting’s research engages the memorialisation of terrorism, and he is also an expert in Cyber-Terrorism.
He leads CR5111 Contemporary terrorism.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/law-and-criminology/study-here/postgraduate-study/whats-it-like-to-study-msc-terrorism-and-counter-terrorism-studies:
What's it like to study MSc Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies?
“Royal Holloway’s MSc in Terrorism and Counter Terrorism greatly improved my confidence, particularly when through class discussion and debate.
Excellent teaching staff created a safe and welcoming environment, where I didn’t feel judged and learned to express my opinions assertively.
Not only did the course enable me to gain an internship as a Counter-terrorism researcher in Washington D.C., I applied my skills to team-working, on an international basis.”
Thulasi
"Studying MSc Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies at Royal Holloway was a great experience that really set me up for a career in terrorism threat analysis.
The lecturers provided me with a great foundation of knowledge and allowed me to select the optional modules that best suited my interests.
I was able to build on the information I gained from my undergraduate degree in Criminology and Psychology at Royal Holloway whilst learning about how this knowledge applies within the security sector in the U.K.
I have since gone on to work in threat intelligence and threat analysis where I can apply academic knowledge and real time intelligence to the current terrorist threat in the U.K.
I highly recommend this course to anyone wanting to work in the counter-terrorism field or wanting to learn more about terrorism."
Becca
Senior Threat analyst

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/psychology/your-future-career/applied-neuroscience-careers:
Applied Neuroscience inspires exciting careers
MSc Applied Neuroscience at Royal Holloway is preparing students for the future in exciting ways.
Whether your ambition is to continue in neuroscience research to do a PhD, or you are fascinated by the neural processes that play a role in clinical conditions, or wish to embark on a career using neuroscience based techniques within the technology, digital, marketing or creative sector, you’ll graduate from MSc Applied Neuroscience with a portfolio of transferable skills and latest methodologies that will open doors in this fascinating and evolving field.
Neuroscience skills are increasingly in demand for jobs in Data Science as well as the emerging fields of User Experience and Interaction Design that rely on using human behavioural and brain data to improve consumer experience to use and interact with new technology successfully.
The MSc Applied Neuroscience also gives you the hands on experience and theoretical foundation needed to embark on a PhD and the research skills needed for a Clinical Psychology training.
You’ll future-proof your learning with experts at the forefront of neuroscience, and be part of a friendly Psychology community that’s renowned for world class, internationally-leading research*.
Join us as a postgraduate student on MSc Applied Neuroscience and you'll get the inspiration and support you need to achieve your academic and career goals.
Our past students have gone onto PhDs, Research Assistant work or working in neuro-rehabilitation.
You can read about some of their experiences below.
*Psychology is ranked 3 rd in the UK for research (THE, REF Institutions ranked by subject, 2022)
Read what some of our Applied Neuroscience masters students said about their experience on this exciting course
"I'm really passionate about how we can apply neuroscience to create a therapeutic landscape that’s useful and dynamic for people." "I'm really interested in going in to research that’s related to multisensory effects like VR and video games and how you can use that to help treat pain, treat Alzheimer’s and help with Parkinson's." "This is one of the most important and exciting areas of academia and research in terms of if you’re thinking about the future and AI, it’s transformative in terms of your imagination and your curiosity."
“What stood out the most is the opportunities to go further with your curiosities…both practically and theoretically." "If you have an interest or an enthusiasm in neuroscience, even the slightest bit, go for this course, because you can explore that so much further here and there’s so many opportunities to get into the different realms of neuroscience."
Meha describes her work experience, part of studying MSc Applied Neuroscience
My experience as a Research Assistant to Dr Tim Holmes on a project commissioned by Disney:
"I worked with Tim for about 8 months.
I had the opportunity to learn about so many topics, which gave me a better view of the real world of neuroscience.
Overall, my experience was absolutely wonderful as he is knowledgeable, fun and generous and even took us to Disney’s London office.
I would have loved to continue working with him after graduation if there were any opportunities and if I had stayed in the UK!"
Charley describes her career path since recently graduating from MSc Applied Neuroscience
"I'm currently a research assistant in a neuroscience lab at a university, where I have assisted with running fMRI scans and behavioural studies.
I've also recently started my own project analysing eye tracking data collected from one of the studies happening in the lab.
In the next year or so, I plan to start a PhD which combines my interests in autism and computational modelling techniques."

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-education/departments-and-schools/biological-sciences/news/professor-mark-jf-brown-awarded-outstanding-research-supervisor-of-the-year-2023:
Professor Mark JF Brown awarded Outstanding Research Supervisor of the Year 2023
Congratulations to Professor Mark JF Brown from the Department of Biological Sciences, who has been awarded Outstanding Research Supervisor of the Year in the 2023 Times Higher Education Awards.
Mark Brown has successfully supervised 54 students (Masters and PhD) over 20 years, actively encouraging students from less privileged backgrounds to continue into doctoral research.
He is committed to providing opportunities for the next generation of researchers and academics.
Mark completed his PhD in Biological Sciences at Stanford University, was a lecturer at Trinity College, Dublin, and joined Royal Holloway in 2008.
He has been an adviser to Natural England and DEFRA, a member of the IUCN Bumblebee Specialists Group, and a Fellow of the Royal Entomological Society.
Mark and his research colleagues in the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Behaviour are global leaders in understanding the impact of agrochemicals and pathogens on bumblebees.
Their work has directly informed national and international assessments of, and responses to, these threats, through changes in practice and policy.
Mark has also led the pan-European research consortium, PoshBee, studying honey bees, bumble bees, and solitary bees, who face a range of human-driven threats and are in decline in Europe and around the globe, bringing together experts from science with beekeepers and farmers to develop new tools and methods to keep bees healthy.
The THE award winners were announced at an awards ceremony on Thursday 7 December 2023.
Research reveals plant compounds in Green Basil and Astragalus hold the potential to treat liver fibrosis – often a precursor to incurable liver cirrhosis.
OBE awarded for services to research in strokes in South Asian people
The conservation work of Toad Patrollers is highlighted in an article by Dr Becky Thomas published on The Conversation.
The Department of Biological Sciences will host the 15th Annual Rare Disease Day event at Royal Holloway on Friday 28 February 2025.

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/management/research/our-research-areas/centre-for-critical-and-historical-research-on-organisation-and-society:
We are a multidisciplinary group of researchers and educators at Royal Holloway, University of London.
The Centre for Critical and Historical Research on Organisation and Society (CHRONOS) provides a critical, interdisciplinary, and iconoclastic forum for research into organizations, markets and society.
The centre is co-directed by Professor Alan Bradshaw and Dr.
Mikael Andéhn, whom you can contact via CHRONOS@rhul.ac.uk .
CHRONOS hosts five special tracks:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Follow us on social media for updates:
LinkedIn: CHRONOS RHUL
BlueSky: @chronos-rhul.bsky.social
X: @CHRONOS_RHUL
School of Business and Management LinkedIn: School of Business and Management, Royal Holloway, University of London
Dr Mikael Andéhn - Centre Co-Director
Professor Alan Bradshaw - Centre Co-Director
Btissam Aboubichr
Giulia Achilli
Niki Panteli
Chris Rees
Alexander Reppel
Leonardo Rinaldi
Sukanya Sen Gupta
Hyemi Shin
Maria Simosi
Laura Spence
Gillian Symon
Helen Tregidga
Chin-Ju Tsai
Saffet Uygur
Xinying Yu
Maryam Zahmatkesh
Yiluvi Zeng
Anica Zeyen
Na Zhao
Courtney Hagen Ford
Antony Mullin
Shareen Holmer
Priyanka Pandey
Minping Huang
Francisca Sassetti
Stephanie Huang
Milena Tekeste
Namir Kharchi
Tracey Wechie
CHRONOS welcomes distinguished visiting academics to foster interdisciplinary and international research collaborations in any CHRONOS research area:
Professor Riccardo Mussari, University of Siena, Italy.
For information and expressions of interest, please contact Dr Giulia Achilli
CHRONOS draws on existing skills and resources to:
UK research networks and partnerships
Cultural Research Group of Birmingham Business School, UK
Copenhagen Business School, Denmark
Department of Business and Law, University of Siena, Italy

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/management/research/our-research-areas/digital-organisation-and-society-research-centre:
The Digital Organisation and Society (DOS) Research Centre is an interdisciplinary group of researchers whose work focuses on developing a critical and insightful understanding of the implications of digital technologies for work, organisations and society and interactions between them.
Our principles are:
Our aims:
For further information and updates on our events, please see our DOS Blog: https://dosrhul.org/
Please connect and engage with us via our social media accounts: LinkedIn - Digital Organisation and Society research centre and X(Twitter) - @DOSRHUL
Follow @DOSRHUL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dr Nisreen Ameen (Director)
Nisreen Ameen is a Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) in Digital Marketing at Royal Holloway, University of London and Director of the Digital Organisation and Society research centre.
Nisreen is also currently serving as Vice President of the UK Academy of Information Systems (UKAIS).
She is an Associate Editor for Information Technology and People and Computers in Human Behavior.
Nisreen has also served as a Guest Editor for special issues in various top ranked journals such as: Information Systems Frontiers, Computers in Human Behavior, Psychology and Marketing, Industrial Marketing Management, Journal of Business Research, The Service Industries Journal and International Journal of Consumer Studies.
Nisreen’s research focuses on two main themes: first, consumer interactions with new-age technologies; and second, how organisations can use these technologies to provide better experiences, services and products.
Within these main themes, her research interests include digital marketing and entrepreneurship, human-computer interaction consumer behaviour, and organisational use of consumer data.
She also focuses on cross-national and cross-cultural research in developing, emerging and developed markets.
She has expertise in qualitative and quantitative methods of data analysis; in particular, survey and experimental research.
Her research has been published in high-ranking journals: Journal of Travel Research; British Journal of Management; International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behavior and Research; Psychology and Marketing; Information Technology and People; Information Systems Frontiers; Internet Research; Computers in Human Behavior; Information Systems Management; Information Technology for Development; the British Journal of Educational Technology; and the International Journal of Gender and Entrepreneurship.
Nisreen’s work has been featured in world-leading media outlets such as CNN, World Bank, The Conversation, New Stateman and Fast Company.
Researchers in the DOS area have a wide range of interests in relation to Digital Organisation and Society, however, these are organised into four broad clusters:
Cluster leads: Dr Yu Zheng and Dr Chris Chan
Cluster leads: Dr Najmeh Hafezieh and Dr Anabel Gutierrez Mendoza
Cluster leads: Dr Vera Hoelscher and Dr Rebecca Bolt
Cluster leads: Dr Elizabeth Quaglia and Dr Nisreen Ameen
Cluster leads: Dr Xing Fang and Dr Yang Yang
Cluster leads: Dr The Khoa Do, Bin and Dr Yuanyuan Lai
In addition, the Centre provides a forum to enhance exploration and integration of existing and emerging digital research methods , including: Big Data analysis, on-line (and off-line) data tracking; data analytics and data visualisation; virtual ethnography; on-line participatory research, including crowdsourcing approaches and ethical issues in digital research.
DOS welcomes visiting fellows to foster international and collaborative research in any of our research areas.
For information and expressions of interest, please email Dr Nisreen Ameen .
To learn more about the innovative research and insights taking place in the research centre please visit the Digital Organisation and Society (DOS) Blog here: https://dosrhul.org/blog/
Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) in Marketing
Director of Digital Organisation and Society (DOS) Research Centre

New sentences found on https://royalholloway.ac.uk/research-and-teaching/departments-and-schools/management/research/our-research-areas/centre-for-research-into-sustainability:
We approach sustainability in a broad and integrated manner, encompassing economic, social, ethical and environmental dimensions.
Through our research, teaching, and collaborations with external partners, we strive to advance scholarship from a social and climate justice perspective by focusing on urgent global challenges such as poverty alleviation, social inequity, and the climate crisis.
We welcome opportunities to collaborate with other organisations on sustainability challenges; locally, nationally and internationally.
Whether you are another research institution, a small/ medium sized enterprise, a social enterprise, an activist or social movement, an NGO, a multinational corporation or a public sector organisation, please contact us to discuss potential collaboration.
We hold regular seminar series and external speaker events; the majority of which are open to external attendees .
Please check under the tab below to find details of our upcoming events and follow our LinkedIn page.
Susan O'Leary - Co-Director
Susan's research interests primarily relate to the use of accounting and accountability practices within non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
She is particularly interested in the monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment tools used within NGOs, and how they are used to derive outcomes as diverse as accountability to financial donors to the fulfilment of social development obligations at a grassroots level.
On a broader level, She is also interested in a range of theoretical perspectives that highlight accounting and accountability as a pluralistic and dialogic practice.
Her research employs a critical and interdisciplinary style with an emphasis on case-based, qualitative and at times, ethnographic research methods.
Martina Hutton - Co-Director
Martina's research interests lie at the intersection of transformative consumer research and critical marketing.
More specifically she focuses on consumer poverty, vulnerability and marketplace stress and exclusion.
With a PhD in Equality Studies from the internationally renowned UCD School of Social Justice, she is an experienced qualitative PEFT researcher ( P articipatory, E mancipatory, F eminist, T ransformative), actively engaging with community stakeholders and diverse groups of people experiencing economic difficulties and social/material marginalisation [poverty, hunger, post-prison socio-material experiences].
Check out our member’s publications and projects here .
The Centre for Research into Sustainability (CRIS) is a multidisciplinary, internationally-leading group of researchers and educators at Royal Holloway, University of London, UK.
We are world-leading in three research areas, which form the basis of our expertise.
Accounting for Sustainability
This work covers topics of accountability, voluntary corporate reporting, sustainability accounting, and governance.
Responsible Consumption
This work covers topics of ethical consumption, marketing ethics, sharing and alternative economies.
Responsible Business
This work covers the evolution of corporate social responsibility and social and environmental sustainability, equality, diversity and inclusion, governance, lobbying, and alternative forms of organizational responsibility, including NGOS, SMEs and cooperatives.
In addition, our current cross-cutting critical agendas are:
Gender and Social Change
Keywords: Gender, masculinities, feminism, family roles, gendered commodity chains, representation of women in advertising.
Global Impact Chains
Keywords: Supply chains, value chains, environmental and social sustainability, developing country contexts, migration, immigration.
Precarious work and Modern Slavery
Keywords: Precarity, bonded labour, trafficking, stakeholder voice, regulation, inclusion and diversity, impacts of COVID-19.
Alternative Economies
Keywords: Subcultures, alternative living, sharing economy, anti-capitalism, afri-capitalism, social movements, digital nomads.
We are actively seeking high quality PhD students to work with CRIS members on sustainability-related topics.
Please see individual staff research pages for an indication of their key interests and contact us directly to discuss further.
General information on applying to study a research degree at Royal Holloway can be found here.
We work alongside a number of businesses, NGOs, research centres and universities.
For more idea of our research collaboration, please see the NGOS, Business and Policymakers tab.
Our members come primarily from the School of Business and Management and the Department of Geography.
CRIS works alongside the Sustainability, Responsibility & Ethics group in the School of Business and Management and the Politics, Development & Sustainability group in the Department of Geography, as well as collaborating with other colleagues from around the College.
Our core members can be found here .
Andy Crane (2014)
Jan Bebbington (2015)
Ralph Hamman (2016)
Mette Morsing (2016)
Joseph Sarkis (2017)
Dr Oana Branzei (2020)
Judy Brown (2023)
The Centre for Research into Sustainability is a multinational and interdisciplinary research-based group with a wealth of knowledge and experience on organisational responses to sustainability challenges.
With expertise in sustainability relating to accounting, supply chains and logistics, corporate social responsibility and business ethics as well as environmental issues, it is a privilege for us to work in partnership with other organisations.
We have experience working with small and medium sized enterprises, social enterprises, multinational corporations and the public sector.
Our work is always rooted in our internationally renowned scholarship.
All of our undergraduate management courses include a foundation for Sustainable Business and we are working towards sustainability being embedded across the curriculum.
We also offer a flagship course, MSc Sustainability & Management, which is taught jointly by the School of Business and Management and the Department of Geography.
The School of Business and Management, Royal Holloway, University of London, has been a signatory of the United Nations Principles of Responsible Management Education since 2008.
PhD Candidates We are actively seeking high quality PhD students to work with CRIS members on sustainability-related topics.
Please see individual staff research pages for an indication of their key interests or contact us directly to discuss further.
Upcoming Events:
May 19th – 23rd - Distinguished Visiting Professor - more details to follow
We will welcome Professor Melissa Bublitz who is the Liz Kramer Professor of Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship and Professor of Civil Society, Community Studies and Consumer Science in the School of Human Ecology, at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA.
She will be running workshops and one-to-one sessions with colleagues and doctoral researchers as well as speaking at our Food In/Justice Event.
We will send more details on her schedule closer to the time.
May 21 - CRIS Climate in Focus Event – FOOD IN/JUSTICE - Shilling Building
Originating from the Food Justice Movement, our event focuses on the idea that everyone should have access to healthy and sustainable food, recognising the link between food, health, and the environment.
A cross-disciplinary event with academics, food justice networks, organisations and lobbying groups involved nationally and internationally in food sustainability and food inequalities.
Timetable:
09:30-10:00 Arrival & refreshments
10:00-10:10 Welcome address
10:15-11:00 Professor Benedetta Cappellini , Durham University Centre for Sustainable Consumption: Careless (food) Marketing: A Caring Agenda for Studying Food
11:00 - 12:00 Practitioner Keynote: Vera Zakharov, Local Action Co-ordinator SUSTAIN
12:00-12:45 Lunch & networking
12:45- 13:30 Professor Melissa G.
Bublitz , University of Wisconsin-Madison & CRIS Distinguished Visiting Scholar: Food Justice for Farmworkers
13:30 -13:45 Refreshments
13:45 - 14:30 Panel & roundtable discussion: Food In/Justice - Policy Impasses and Possibilities
14:30 - 15:00 Close & final networking
External attendees, please book using our Eventbrite LINK .
June 23 - CRIS Research Away Day - Senate House, London
For CRIS members and colleagues, an opportunity to share, present, discuss their work in progress with an evening social event afterwards.
Past Events :
April 30
CRIS Wicked Fringe 2025: “Perpetuating Injustices”
This year’s Wicked Fringe will critically examine how injustices are sustained and challenged across different domains, structured around three themes: Contested Spaces, Contested Commodities, and Contested Partnerships.
Speakers included: Rohit Varman (University of Birmingham), Rania Kamla (University of Edinburgh), Georgios Patsiaouras (University of Leicester), Raisa Pina (University of Brasilia, Visiting PhD at Oxford University) and Nick McGuigan (Monash University)
The event included presentations from speakers, panel discussions, interactive dialogues, and a closing roundtable to synthesise insights and explore pathways for change.
21 June 2024 – Wicked Fringe: Complex societal and Environmental Problems examined from the fringe .
Speakers:
28 November 2024  - Distinguished Lecture (Online) – Professor Lilie Chouliaraki: The weaponization of victimhood: the politics of pain and power today
Why is being a victim such a popular identity today?
Who exactly claims to be a victim?
Who benefits and who loses from the struggles over victimhood in our public cultures?
Drawing on examples from the struggle over reproductive rights in the US and the Covid-19 pandemic, I will discuss how claiming victimhood is about claiming power.
My talk will draw attention to the politics, actors and platforms through which claims to pain are systematically appropriated and weaponized to serve the interests of powerful actors and groups.
In so doing, it will highlight the ways in which social struggles over victimhood in public discourse and social media are struggles about who owns the languages of pain, who deserves to be protected as a victim and who should be punished as perpetrator.
Particularly in the context of far-right populism, I argue, we need to be aware of and critically interrogate the strategies of victimhood that are used in public discourse to perpetuate old exclusions and introduce new injustices in society.
Lilie Chouliaraki is Professor of Media and Communications at the London School of Economics and Political Science.
Her work examines the ethical and political complexities of communicating human suffering in the media with emphasis on four domains in which suffering appears as a problem of communication: disaster news; humanitarian and human rights advocacy; war and conflict reporting; and migration news.
Her recent work is on the cultural politics of victimhood in western societies.
2 December 2024 - Climate in Focus seminar & CRIS Christmas Social
In the first of our seminar series, we have invited two keynote speakers.
Dr Tanya Fiedler will present on "Navigating Expertise in a Changing Climate".
The brief abstract focuses on 1) Assumptions underpinning expertise are challenged under climate-related financial reporting obligations; 2) Revisit these assumptions by drawing on 34 interviews; 3) Identify dynamic and relational mechanisms by which to conceptualise climate expertise.
Our second speaker Dr Sasha Engelmann will present on "Mapping Planetary Weather through Creative Practice, Design and Collective Action".
The brief abstract focuses on 1) Artists have long played important roles in mapping encounters with environmental change; 2) Explore an experimental map of planetary weather created by open-weather project.
Following the seminar CRIS members were able to celebrate the festive season a little early at the CRIS Christmas Social.