# Site: https://www.rvc.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 321
# --------

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk:
Undergraduate and postgraduate programmes (including Clinical Training Scholarships) in biological sciences, veterinary science and veterinary nursing
Cutting-edge research in the veterinary and biological sciences, with a focus on improving animal and human health and welfare
Veterinary services for referring vets and owners who demand the very best for the animals in their care
0800 368 9520 rvc@plmr.co.uk
Contact Wall
People Finder
Sitemap
2025 Royal Veterinary College
Terms | Privacy | Modern Slavery Statement | Accessibility

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study:
Our commitment to animal welfare →

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research:
Curiosity-driven research which benefits the lives of humans and animals.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/veterinary-services:
Our general practice in London and referral services at our Hertfordshire site provide, between them, first-opinion veterinary care and the widest range of small animal specialist referral services anywhere in the UK, including an exotics service covering both referrals and routine appointments.
Our dedicated equine team provide ambulatory care to horse owners in Hertfordshire and adjoining counties, and specialist referral services for cases requiring access to advanced techniques and specialist nursing care that can be provided in our superbly equipped veterinary teaching hospital.
World-class veterinary diagnostic pathology services, postgraduate training and research with an international reputation and track record of success in specialist examinations.
The Regional Veterinary Centre - South of England is a centre of excellence for livestock extension.
Europe’s leading provider of CPD programmes for vets and veterinary nurses.
Sarah Batt-Williams & Lyndsay Wade explore the evidence behind the nursing practices that we use every day.
Dominic Barfield, talks to a variety of different faculty / specialists / clinicians from the RVC.
Clinical Connections newsletter gives you an insight into RVC's clinical services along with news and research highlights.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about:
The College’s academic policies, procedures and regulations, including those used for assuring the quality and enhancement of the student learning experience.
The way in which the RVC structures itself in order to ensure that its leadership and management can work towards achieving its vision of becoming a place of recommendation for education, clinical care, expert opinion and employment in veterinary medicine and science.
Information on library, IT and estates services at the RVC, including instructions and documentation concerning account login, email, printing services, and wireless access.
Academic and Student support services that develop digital, physical and social learning environments to promote wellbeing in the RVC community.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/news-and-events:
Since its foundation in 1791, The Royal Veterinary College has become a world-leader in veterinary and biomedical teaching and research.
We are able to provide expert commentary on a range of issues relating to animal health and welfare.
To reach a member of staff please contact the RVC Press Office.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/business:
The Royal Veterinary College actively collaborates with business and industry to progress science and develop new technologies.
This ensures that our world-class scientific and clinical knowledge and expertise is used to improve the lives of humans and animals.
The business team works closely with the College’s scientists and clinicians to identify, protect, develop and commercialise intellectual property, to strengthen research collaboration and the development of new technologies.
business@rvc.ac.uk
lbic@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/contact-us:
+44 (0)20 7468 5000
Find Us
+44 (0)1707 666333
admissions@rvc.ac.uk
+44 (0)20 7468 5147
registry@rvc.ac.uk
+44 (0) 20 7387 8134
beaumont@rvc.ac.uk
Camden Campus (RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital)
+44 (0) 1707 666399 (select option 5)
QMHReception@rvc.ac.uk
Hawkshead Campus (QMHA)
Emergency
+44 (0) 1707 669900 (out-of-hours)
+44 (0) 1707 666399 (option 2)
Hawkshead Campus
+44 (0) 1707 666399 (option 1 )
Please note that for training and quality assurance purposes, we record incoming and outgoing calls to our hospitals.
See RVC Client Privacy Notice .
+44 (0) 1707 666297
equinereception@rvc.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1707 666667
equinehospital@rvc.ac.uk
All Equine Contacts and maps
+44 (0)7867 973237

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act:
Thanks to your help we are able to improve the treatment and care of animals through clinical practice, education and research.
Please donate to our ongoing work and make a difference to the thousands of pets and animals cared for each year.
Support us
Your support helps care for tens of thousands of pets and animals every year.
Donations, corporate partnerships, or leaving a gift in your will makes a huge difference to the lives of animals.
What we do
We support three key areas of animal health and care; improving and enhancing hospital equipment and facilities, funding pioneering research, and supporting education.
Events
Whatever your interest, and no matter your fitness level, we can support you with a range of events.
From bake sales to running the London Marathon; you can get involved and raise funds.
About us
The Animal Care Trust was founded to provide greater support in dealing with complex veterinary cases.
More than 30 years later, our work has never been more critical.
Keep up to date with our Paws & Hooves biannual magazine , our monthly email newsletter Paws & Hooves...Bitesize and upcoming events.
Find out about our work in improving animal health and care at the RVC’s hospitals, discover heart-warming patient stories, the latest research and fundraising news.
act@rvc.ac.uk
+44 (0)1707 666237
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Instagram
Follow us on Twitter
Make an impact Your generous donations help us to support thousands of poorly pets each year, giving our patients access to innovative treatments and the best facilities to keep them comfortable while they are in our care.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/visit-the-rvc/scholars-programme:
Date : 9 events in Year 1, 8 events in Year 2 (typically on a Saturday) Time : 10am-4pm Location : Camden Campus (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU United Kingdom) & Hawkshead Campus ( Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA, United Kingdom) Age Group: Year 12 Capacity: 10 Eligibility: See below for full details Cost: Free Application Deadline : 5pm GMT on the 14th November 2025
Apply now for the 2026/2027 Scholars Programme →
The RVC Scholars Programme is designed to support under-represented Year 12 students aspiring to study Veterinary Medicine at the RVC.
The comprehensive 18-month programme will develop skills, confidence and experience around the application process, as well as provide unrivalled insight into the RVC.
Throughout this sustained engagement, the RVC will run a variety of on-campus events, further supported by occasional online opportunities.
Scholars will have the opportunity to engage with a series of expert lectures, practical teaching, group work, animal handling, an admissions masterclass and a zoo field trip, all led by dedicated RVC staff.
This will be supported by a select group of regular Student Ambassadors who will act as role models and mentors.
All of which will provide a truly insightful experience of what studying at the RVC is like.
We are looking for ten dedicated scholars to form a supportive peer group and attend nine events in year one of the programme, and eight events in year two, all of which will take place on Saturdays at either the RVC’s London or Hertfordshire Campus.
Furthermore, scholars who graduate from the scheme and subsequently join full time undergraduate study at the RVC will be awarded a scholarship of £3,000 per annum for a maximum of four years.
The proposed dates (subject to change) for the start of the 2026 timetable are as follows: 15th January (online), 24th January, 14th February, 14th March, 4th & 5th April, 9th May, 13th June, 11th July.
Completion of the Scholars programme is only met by attending at least 14 of the total 17 sessions offered throughout the 18 month programme.
Please click here to see an example of a suitable reference for the Scholars Programme
In support of your application, and to evidence eligibility, we ask that you submit (via sending to schools@rvc.ac.uk):
If applicable:
*The RVC is dedicated to being an organisation in which equity, diversity and inclusion underpin all that we do.
Eligibility for this event is targeted to support under-represented individuals, as we believe students from every background should be able to access advice, guidance and support in order to help them progress to and benefit from the transformative experience of higher education.
For more information on our commitment to improve equality of opportunity for under-represented groups please read our Access & Participation Plan (APP) .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/news-and-events/rvc-news/the-royal-veterinary-college-retains-top-position-in-global-rankings:
Published: 12 Mar 2025 | Last Updated: 12 Mar 2025 10:27:56
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has been awarded the leading position for Veterinary Science in the QS World University Subject Rankings 2025.
The QS rankings analyse the reputation and research of more than 5,200 institutions across 55 narrow subject areas and five broad subject areas.
The rankings are finalised using several indicators, including Academic Reputation; Employer Reputation; Citations per Paper; and H-Index, which quantifies the output and influence of scholarly output.
The RVC scored 100 for Academic Reputation while strengthening its achievements in Employer Reputation, which rose to 91.7.
This reflects the employability and impact of the RVC’s graduates and alumni and the institution’s standing amongst employers.
The RVC also maintained strong scores for Citations per Paper and H-Index.
Professor Stuart Reid CBE, President & Principal of the RVC, said:
“We are dedicated to maintaining the teaching, learning and research that takes place at the RVC.
I am delighted that the effort from all our staff and students has once again led to a great outcome in the QS rankings; it is a privilege we do not take for granted.”
The RVC offers internationally recognised undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in veterinary medicine, veterinary nursing and biological sciences.
Complementing each other, these programmes support the RVC’s veterinary remit and are also underpinned by an intensive research portfolio.
Teaching in its internationally renowned first-opinion and specialist referral hospitals provides students with access to innovative diagnostics and treatments across numerous species throughout their education and training.
The full set of rankings can be found at: https://www.topuniversities.com
PhD student Yuting Lin receives Ruth Bowden Award
Yuting Lin, a PhD student at the RVC, has been …
New research conducted by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has revealed that Thoroughbred foals …
New research conducted by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC)’s VetCompass programme, exploring the …
A new study by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) VetCompass Programme has revealed that nail …
The Royal Veterinary College’s (RVC) Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital (BSAH), based in Camden, …
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has announced the expansion of its Equine Referral Hospital …
At the 2025 graduation ceremony, the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) awarded Honorary Degrees of …
A novel study by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has revealed new insights into how the highly …
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has co-authored a new report, as part of the Lancet One Health …
New research from the RVC VetCompass Programme has provided fresh insights into survival rates for …
Two new studies from the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) have revealed widespread public …

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/pet-blood-donations:
Emergency contact: 01707 666399
The RVC’s pioneering blood donor programme provides hundreds of vital blood transfusions every year helping to save the lives of critically ill or injured cats and dogs.
This service is only possible because of our wonderful donor dogs and cats that come in throughout the year with their owners to donate blood for use in the Queen Mother Hospital for Animals.
Our priority is the donor’s comfort and wellbeing and so they are carefully screened before enrolment to ensure they are comfortable with the process of donating blood and are healthy enough to do so.
We have a specific blood donor room that provides a calm and relaxed environment for our wonderful blood donors and three dedicated nurses so that they see a familiar face each time.
Every donation is split into different components (see Component Therapy ) so that one donation can go towards helping multiple patients.
The donated blood can then be used to help our patients in a variety of ways such as in open-heart surgery or in the emergency and critical care department, treating immune mediated diseases and in the treatment of cancer.
Donated blood from our smaller canine donors is used to produce serum eye drops for our ophthalmic patients that are suffering with corneal injuries e.g.
ulcerations or cat scratches.
A small amount of fur is clipped from the neck to let us clean the area and see the vein clearly.
We apply a local anaesthetic cream to minimise sensation and then they give blood in exactly the same way as humans do.
On average, a dog blood donation takes 5-7 minutes and the whole appointment approximately 45 minutes.
A small area of fur will be clipped from their leg and neck to enable the area to be cleaned and to be able to access the vein.
We apply a local anaesthetic cream to minimise sensation.
On average, a cat blood donation takes 10-15 minutes and the whole process takes approximately four hours.
The reason that cats stay with us longer is so that cats (who can be fussy drinkers!) receive enough fluids via intravenous fluid therapy to ensure they are adequately hydrated before they return home.
Owners can drop them off with us and collect later.
To show our appreciation to our heroes, they are given:
We are always looking to welcome new donors to the team so if you think your cat or dog would make a great donor and are interested in them joining the blood donor programme please fill in our form HERE (or use the button below), call 01707 666511 or email blooddonor@rvc.ac.uk
I would like my pet to be a blood donor
Meet our Pet Blood Donors and leave them a message

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/publications/undergraduate-prospectus:
Joining the RVC means you become part of a heritage going back over 233 years.
It also makes you a member of a specialist institution that leads the way in putting students at the heart of everything we do.
We promise you an unparalleled experience and I am delighted that you are considering joining us.
Welcome to London, welcome to the RVC.
Stuart WJ Reid, Principal
We are convinced that we offer you some of the best biosciences, veterinary medicine and veterinary nursing training in the world, but if you are in two minds about where to study, let us explain why…
Please note: you will need to provide a full postal address.
We know it can be a daunting time when you first arrive in a new country and when starting university, but we are here to help you every step of the way and make the transition as easy as possible.
We want you to have an amazing experience both at the RVC and throughout your time in the UK.
To do this, we invest in your personal development and make sure that we have support and guidance in place to help you when needed.
See Undergraduate Study for information about the wide range of bioscience, veterinary nursing and veterinary medicine courses available at the RVC.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice:
Your local veterinary hospital in the heart of Camden, North London.
4 Royal College St, London NW1 0TU
24 hour contact: 0 20 7387 8134
Get in touch
How to find us & opening times
Facilities
Our fees
Routine healthcare
Pet Health Plan
Exotics & small mammal services
Emergency services
How to find us
Our Fees
Is your pet ill?
Does your pet need routine healthcare?
The RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital is the leading university teaching animal hospital in London.
We have been providing vet services in north London since 1933.
As one of the largest vet practices in London, we have a fantastic team of vets - many of whom have particular areas of expertise or advanced qualifications in:
In addition, our highly experienced vet nurses have advanced qualifications in areas such as emergency and critical care, pet welfare and behaviour.
This is all adds up to you having access to world-class veterinary knowledge and expertise right in the heart of London.
Kitten care
Puppy care
Taking my boys to BSAH means that I can be sure they get the best care and the dedicated attention of a great team while also helping the next generation of vets apply their skills and gain critical experience for their future.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals:
What the RVC offers
Referral form
Emergency referrals
Advanced techniques
ICU Emergency room
Hydrotherapy pool
Separate species wards
Referrals line: +44 (0)1707 666399 (select option 2) Hospital Email: qmhreception@rvc.ac.uk
General enquiries: +44 (0)1707 666399 (select option 5)
Queen Mother Hospital for Animals
About referrals
Visiting your pet
Out-of-hours emergencies
Payments and Insurance
RVC Small Animal Referrals is staffed by vets who have undertaken advanced postgraduate training in their chosen fields, as well as highly trained Registered Veterinary Nurses who are dedicated to the clinical areas they work within.
Though each clinical service is composed of vets with advanced qualifications in their respective fields, the different services work together on many cases.
This transdisciplinary approach ensures each patient gets the very best treatment available, whatever condition or conditions they present with.
Services like anaesthesia and analgesia, diagnostic imaging, physiotherapy and rehabilitation and critical care can be accessed easily by every clinical area.
Furthermore, on many cases experts from different teams are involved.
For example, soft tissue surgeons work with the cardiology team to help dogs with heart disease, oncologists and orthopaedic surgeons often work together on cases involving tumours, and the neurosurgeons work with the internal medicine service on cases requiring surgery on a gland in the brain.
Our transdisciplinary approach is supported by a strong teamwork ethos and commitment to communicate effectively with colleagues, pet owners and referring vets.
This commitment has been reflected in an award of ‘Outstanding’ by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons' Practice Standards Scheme (PSS), in the area of ‘team and professional responsibility’.
The PSS, which quality assures UK veterinary hospitals and practices, also deemed RVC the small animal referral service outstanding in the other areas assessed.
This is the highest level that can be given.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet:
24 hour contact: 01707 666297
Register with us
Make an appointment
Pre-purchase examination
JMB measurement
Refer an animal
Emergency contact
Specialisms
Current projects
Published papers
Case studies
Performance and equitation
RVC Equine is located in Hertfordshire and has a long and rich history in equine health management, combining world-leading research with the largest number of RCVS Equine Specialists of any UK veterinary teaching hospital, 24 - hour emergency and referral services, and a first opinion equine only ambulatory practice - backed up by the most advanced techniques, patient care and best facilities available.
RVC Equine
Fact files
Talks and events
Equine history of the RVC
Subject index
01707 666297
01707 666304
Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire
Hawkshead Campus , Hertfordshire
Map and travel directions
Our Hertfordshire based clinical team includes equine only practice vets and internationally recognised RCVS Specialists who provide a comprehensive and sophisticated service including medicine, surgery and diagnostic imaging, supported by Registered Equine Veterinary Nurses, equine technicians and specialist clinicians-in-training.
See RVC Equine Team .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni:
The RVC’s online portal for alumni – update your details now for exclusive alumni benefits and services.
Update your RVC4Life details →
Support the RVC by donating to the Alumni Fund
Purchase RVC branded clothing, gifts & much more!
Tweets by RVCAlumni

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all:
We hold a number of events throughout the year for you to visit the RVC.
At our events, you can see our campuses and facilities.
Our programmes support learners who are under-represented at the RVC to develop their animal interests, studies and careers.
This Plan covers the period up to the end of 2024 and describes the work that the College does to encourage young people to apply to study here.
The RVC is dedicated to being an organisation in which equality, diversity and inclusion underpin all that we do.
We are committed to maintaining good relations with neighbouring communities and to make a meaningful economic, cultural and social contribution.
Our students come from a wide variety of backgrounds and experiences.
Read some of their stories and find answers to all your questions.
At the Royal Veterinary College, we believe that studying biological science, veterinary medicine and veterinary nursing should be open and accessible for all.
Our students come from a wide variety of backgrounds, and find at the RVC a supportive environment for their diverse experiences and needs.
We work across the UK and overseas to inspire and support potential students towards their future in animal science and care.
Find out how you can Visit Us to get a taste of life at the RVC, and see if you’re eligible for our free Widening Participation opportunities and support.
See Student Support and Stories for what to expect when you come to study here!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/rvc-in-the-community:
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) is committed to maintaining good relations with neighbouring communities and to make a meaningful economic, cultural and social contribution to the regions in which our two campuses are based within Hertfordshire and Central London.
The RVC is one of the largest employers in the local area, employing over 1000 permanent staff across its two campuses with the majority employed at our Hertfordshire campus in North Mymms.
We train over 2600 students and researchers - the people that every community relies on for veterinary care, disease control, animal welfare and one health.
Engagement within our local communities continues to be a priority for the RVC and we are committed to building active engagement with these communities, with local schools and colleges and the public in general.
Our staff and students are actively involved in many local initiatives and community organisations as well as being residents in the local area.
Our Community Relations and Widening Participation and Outreach teams offer and participate in a wide range of activities and events that are open to all .
Please do get in touch for more information about how we work in the local community or how we can get involved in your community.
Sioned Rogers Community Relations Executive
+44 (0)1707 669642
communityrelations@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/equality/equality-and-diversity:
What is Equality – recognising and respecting diversity and difference.
Equality is about ensuring you treat people fairly, it does not mean that you have to treat them the same.
It just means that a level playing field is created for all so that nobody is at a disadvantage.
What is Diversity – a term which includes characteristics or factors such as race, religion, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, disability, age and socioeconomic status.
Diversity refers to all of the characteristics that make individuals different from each other.
Who is Affected by equality and Diversity – everyone that enters the College environment.
Staff, Students, Contractors, examiners or someone who is just visiting the college from the community.
Everyone is responsible for adhering to our commitment to equality and diversity.
New Recruits : both potential employees and potential students can be confident that they are applying to work/study for an organisation that is committed to ensuring equality and diversity throughout the recruitment and enrolment process.
Employees : can be confident that they are working for an organisation that is committed to the promotion of equality of opportunity.
As an employee you will be treated with equality and fairness and you are expected to adopt this same ethic with anyone who comes into contact with College.
Students : can be confident that they are studying at a College with a diverse student body and is committed to the promotion of equality of opportunity.
Visitors : can be confident that they will be treated with equality and fairness and you are expected to adopt this same ethic with our students and employees.
Who is Responsible : anyone who comes into contact with the College, whether they are staff, students, contractors, examiners or someone who is just visiting the college from the community.
Below is the list of the departmental Equality and Diversity Champions, for each area across the College.
The champions are members of the Equality and Diversity Committee, whose remit is to promote equality and diversity across the College.
The role of the Equality and Diversity Champions is to support their department to develop and promote an environment in which principles of equality and diversity are embedded as part of the departmental working culture.
For further information about what your department is doing towards implementing the equality and diversity agenda you can contact one of your departmental champion.
Equality and Diversity Champions
The RVC is committed to working with Advance HE to shape the future, achieve transformation and recognise excellence.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/email:
All students and staff at the RVC have an Office 365 account to use for email.
You can access your email mailbox at mail.rvc.ac.uk using your full RVC email address and password.
The email system gives you 50GB of mailbox space, a 100MB attachment limit, and lifetime access for RVC students.
Your account also entitles you to up to five free downloads of Microsoft Office software for Windows or Mac.
In the subsections below you will find instructions on how to set up and use your RVC email account on different devices, and how to gain access to your free downloads of Microsoft Office Pro Plus using your RVC account credentials.
You can access your RVC email account using a web browser at http://mail.rvc.ac.uk .
On the sign in page, be sure to include your entire RVC email address, including '@rvc.ac.uk', in the ID field:
The Microsoft Outlook support page has a detailed guide for how to set up and get started with the Office 365 web app.
If you use a screen reader, there is also a support page for Outlook and adaptive technology.
Your RVC Office license entitles you to up to 5 activations of Office 365 on both work and personal devices, on Windows and Mac.
You can use Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync to set up access to your RVC mailbox on different devices using the following credentials:
To set up your RVC email account for use with a desktop email client like Outlook using the setup wizard by entering your email address and password.
Outlook will automatically find your settings and set up an Exchange connection to your account.
Information on adding your Office 365 email account to other desktop email clients is available on the Microsoft Support website .
Directions for setting up access to your RVC email account on your mobile phone or tablet are available below, organized according to device.
When you graduate from the RVC, your email account will remain unchanged for at least 6 months.
In December of your graduating year, your email account will change to our alumni email account which you will have for life.
This means that while you can still receive emails to your address username@rvc.ac.uk, you will only be able to send email from username@alumni.rvc.ac.uk.
All other elements of your email account and calendar remain the same, and you still access your account through mail.rvc.ac.uk.
This is because the terms of the Microsoft License that permits your email account change once you are no longer at student at the RVC.
We are very lucky to be granted an unlimited OneDrive account at the RVC from Microsoft.
Unfortunately, once you become an alumni and not a student, your access to your OneDrive will end.
This change will happen at least 6 months after you graduate, December of that year, so you have time to move your files to your own computer or another cloud drive.
These are the licensing rules from Microsoft, and we are unable to extend this time period once you have left the RVC.
When you graduate, your Office365 account will change to an Alumni license in December, of the graduation year, which will only allow access to the email component.
This means that you will continue to have access to email only .
As the downloaded software is dependent on you being a registered student with the college (hence the regular requirement for you to enter your college email address and password), it will cease to work the next time your software tries to contact our servers / asks you to login.
This depends on when the software last asked you to login - the maximum period between logins is 30 days so you may get a few days grace or you may find you cannot use the software almost immediately.
Within 30 days of your account becoming an alumni account your access to the free Office suite will be removed.
You can set up access to your RVC email account on your iPhone or iPad in a few easy steps:
1.
From the Home Screen, navigate to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars .
2.
If you already have an RVC email configured you will need to delete your account in order to proceed.
If you are setting up your device for the first time, you can skip this step.
Please check any RVC contacts are backed up prior to deletion.
3.
Navigate to the App Store and download the Microsoft Outlook app and then open the application and login with your RVC credentials:
4.
You will receive a Microsoft Multi Factor Authentication prompt if connecting to your emails offsite:
5.
If you need to add any additional shared mailboxes you can do so on the left hand menu:
The easiest way to add your RVC email to your android device is by downloading the Outlook app for Android.
To do so:
Go to the Play store and search for Outlook:
Tap to install, then Open the installed app:
On the setup screen, select Get Started .
On the following screen, select Skip :
Enter your RVC email address:
Then sign in using your password:
6.
The Outlook app will now appear in your installed apps:
Start Outlook by going to the start menu and typing ‘outlook’, then clicking on the ‘Outlook 2016’ desktop application.
The first time you run Outlook, it greets you with the following screen.
Click ‘Next’
Click ‘Next’ to get connected to your email account
Enter your RVC email account details in the following fields then click ‘Next’;  Outlook will take a moment to search for your account details.
An authentication box should appear.
Enter your RVC email address and password and click ‘OK’
Outlook should then present you with the following screen.
Click ‘Finish’ to complete the setup.
7.
Your emails should start to appear.
The Microsoft Mail and Calendar apps are available on the Microsoft Store for free but are likely to already be on your computer running Windows 10.
Start the Mail app by going to the start menu and typing ‘mail’, and clicking on the ‘Mail’ app.
The first time the app starts it gives you the option to add an account.
Click ‘Add account’:
Select ‘Exchange’ as the type of email account that you wish to add:
Enter your RVC email address and click ‘Next’
Select ‘Use a different account’ and click ‘Continue’
Enter your email address and password in the sign in box that opens, then click ‘Sign in’
On the following screen, accept the defaults and click ‘Yes’
Then click ‘Done’
Please email helpdesk@rvc.ac.uk or call 02074685181 if you require further assistance.
You will receive a notification message at midnight every night from quarantine@messaging.microsoft.com that lists messages intended for your mailbox that were identified as spam and quarantined instead.
This message includes the number of spam-quarantined messages listed, and the date and time (in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC)), since the last message was sent.
From this list, you can view the following information about each message:
You can perform the following two actions on each message:
If you receive an email asking for personal information (username, password, bank account, address etc.) or anything requesting you to open a file from an unknown sender then DO NOT respond to either of these and delete these messages immediately.
It is the College's policy not to ask users for their passwords.
If you are taken to a website different from the ones specified above, when you are releasing an email to the inbox or reporting it as not junk or the message is not from quarantine@messaging.microsoft.com, then urgently report it to helpdesk@rvc.ac.uk .
OneDrive for Business is a cloud storage service that is available to members of RVC as part of their Office 365 account.
It is a cloud based data storage facility provided and controlled by Microsoft.
It is a convenient service for storing large files, multimedia and it is particularly simple to share files direct from OneDrive.
It is not an alternative to on-site storage of important or sensitive files or data on your H: drive or your dedicated folder on the research or projects drives.
Please do not use OneDrive as your primary or sole space for saving and storing your files!
More information on this is available below.
OneDrive can be accessed through many clients and apps from Macs, PCs and most tablets and smart phones.
It can also, most simply, be accessed through your web browser as described below.
Using OneDrive for Business you can easily add files from anywhere via the web.
You can also:
OneDrive Libraries will automatically handle up to 10 versions of a single document.
The One drive for Business App is available for Windows phones/tablets , iOS (iPad, iPhone, iPod) and Android smartphones so you can access your files from your mobile device.
Learn how to organise your files and to share One Drive files and folders.
See Microsoft's support pages:
Your username and password for your OneDrive will always be the same as your RVC email address and RVC password.
Before you use OneDrive for Business you should be aware of the following:
Clutter is an email filtering option available to RVC users.
It is similar to an anti-spam filter as it moves less importantemail (based on your reading habits) into a 'Clutter' folder where they can be ignored or reviewed later.
Most of the mail going into the folder should be bulk mail (advertisements) and messages from mailing lists.However, you will want to periodically check the Clutter folder as it may move legitimate email into this folder.
Clutter is on in the Outlook Web App by default, you can turn this feature off with the following procedure:
Note The Clutter folder remains in Outlook after you turn off the Clutter feature.
It might take Clutter a few days to fully adapt to your preference, as the system records your choices and uses the information to identify similar messages in the future.
But you can help Clutter learn your choices faster:
If you see a low priority email in your Inbox, right-click the message and choose Move to Clutter , or drag the email from your Inbox and drop it into the Clutter folder.
If you see a message that was sent to Clutter by mistake, right-click the message and choose Move to inbox , or drag the email from the Clutter folder and drop it in your Inbox.
Note Moving an email in or out of the Clutter folder, from any of your devices, is enough to give the signal to the Clutter system that an item is Clutter or not.
For example, if you move an email to the Clutter folder in Outlook desktop, or the Mail app on your phone, the action gets recorded in the Clutter system on all your mail apps.
You don't have to do this individually in each app.
Clutter and junk email are both filtered out before they reach your Inbox.
Junk email is evaluated and filtered first, then Outlook processes the rules (if you have set up any).
Next, Clutter analyzes the remaining messages and filters out the types of messages that you usually ignore or don't respond to, based on your past behavior.
Messages from certain people will never be identified as clutter:
Clutter looks at various aspects of messages to understand what you don’t typically read, for example:
As your reading habits change, Clutter learns and adapts.
If you have Outlook 2016 for Windows, you can right-click the Clutter folder and choose Manage Clutter .
You'll be directed to Outlook Web App to manage your Clutter options:
All RVC email accounts have Litigation Hold applied to them.
This is for the purpose of security and auditing.
All email traffic to and from an RVC email address will be stored for a minimum period of seven years.
Any emails deleted before this time, will be securely stored in ‘litigation hold’ and will be permanently deleted after seven years.
This is in compliance with data protection and clinical governance policies present elsewhere within the College.
If you receive an email alert relating to litigation hold, unable to delete emails, or have any further questions regarding litigation hold please contact IT Helpdesk.
For the purposes of this document, a mass email is defined as an email communication sent to a high number of recipients.
Examples of this include:
An all-staff or all-student email should only be sent in a 'business critical' or 'urgent' situation which will impact on and/or require action by the majority of recipients.
Examples include:
Mass mailings create a large amount of network traffic, delay other emails, and result in thousands of copies of the same material being stored on servers at the College.
To limit the impact, messages should be as short as possible, sent as plain text and in almost all cases with no attachments.
If you wish to send an all-staff or all-student email, consider alternative communication channels that may be a better medium for disseminating the information.
For example:
* The College’s Facebook page and Twitter feed are subject to external control and monitoring by Facebook and Twitter.
Section 5 of the IT Acceptable use Policy ITPOL001 states that the College's IT services should not be misused "to disseminate mass (unsolicited) mailings".
Section 7 of the IT Acceptable use Policy ITPOL001 has further guidelines on good email practice and etiquette.
You are responsible for the email that is sent out and for its content.
The Infrastructure Services Directorate reserves the right to take action against any mass emailing activities that are deemed to be detrimental to the reputation, effective operations and functioning of the College.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/camden/find-us:
Plan your route to the Camden Campus by public transport with the Transport for London Journey Planner .
We would strongly advise travelling to the Camden Campus by public transport as it tends to be the quickest method.
We are around a 10 minute walk from King’s Cross / St Pancras International Station (Underground Lines: Circle, Hammersmith & City, Metropolitan, Northern, Victoria and Piccadilly) which is the centre of the train network in London.
We are also around a 10 minute walk from Mornington Crescent Underground Station (Northern Line), therefore we are very accessible.
We would strongly advise against driving to the Camden Campus .
Although we are located outside the Congestion Charge zone, it is very easy to take a wrong turn into when driving to the College.
In addition to this we are unfortunately unable to provide any car parking facilities.
There are limited car parking spaces located in front of the College – there is a charge of 20p for every five minutes, with a maximum stay of four hours.
The closest multi-storey car park is the St.
Pancras Station Car Park (Pancras Road, London, NW1 2TB) which is run by NCP.
To see NCP’s parking charges please visit www.ncp.co.uk
TfL Journey Planner gives three options for cycle routes within London with predicted journey times.
Easy routes use mainly quiet backstreets, canals and park routes, but may still include some main roads where unavoidable.
The average speed is 12km/hr.
Moderate routes use mainly backstreets, with some main roads where unavoidable.
The average speed is 16km/hr.
Fast routes use the most direct route.
The average speed is 20km/hr.
The journey planner can also be used for walking routes.
The journey time from Hawkshead to Camden Campus ranges from 1 hour 19 minutes to 2 hours 26 minutes depending on the route.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/hawkshead/find-us:
Visitors arriving by road are urged to approach the Main Campus from the East along Hawkshead Road and Hawkshead Lane from the A1000.
Satellite Navigation Systems may instruct you to arrive via the western end of Hawkshead Lane.
This route is not recommended, especially for larger vehicles, because of the narrow, twisting roads and very narrow bridge.
From the M25 leave at Junction 24 and take the A111 (Southgate Road) to Potters Bar.
At the first main junction and traffic lights, turn right onto the A1000 towards Hatfield.
Follow the A1000 through Potters Bar and then turn left onto Hawkshead Road and then fork left onto Hawkshead Lane.
From the A1(M) leave at Junction 3 (if heading South) or Junction 2 (if heading North) and take the A1001 towards Welham Green.
At the Travellers Lane roundabout take the A100 (A1000) towards Potters Bar.
After passing through Bell Bar and Bookman's Park either follow the signs to the Vet College (a right turn into Swanley Bar Lane followed by a right into Hawkshead Road and then fork left into Hawkshead Lane) or, if you would rather avoid Swanley Bar Lane (which can be narrow due to parked cars), ignore the signpost and continue down the A1000 to the next right-turn (Hawkshead Road) and follow it as above.
Larger vehicles (such as those carrying animals or making deliveries) are particularly urged to approach (and leave) by the recommended routes, avoiding the narrow, twisting roads and very narrow bridge (3 tonne weight limit) to the west of the campus.
Cyclists and pedestrians are urged to take particular care in the generally narrow and unlit local by-ways around the campus.
TfL Journey Planner gives three options for cycle routes with predicted journey times.
The journey time from Potters Bar Station to Hawkshead ranges from 11- 19 minutes.
see the RVC Shuttle Service Timetable (PDF) or the Welham Green Bus Timetable (PDF) for full details of other stops and return journeys.
A reduced service (PDF) runs at the weekend.
Taxi/Minicab: a minicab service is available from beside the Potters Bar railway station forecourt (telephone 01707 650077).
The journey to the Campus takes about 10 minutes.
Trains, operated by Great Northern - www.greatnorthernrail.com - run about every thirty minutes to Potters Bar from London King's Cross, at 04 and 34 minutes past the hour.
The journey takes about 15 minutes.
See above for directions from Potters Bar.
Travel by Underground to Kings Cross/St Pancras, which is on the Victoria, Piccadilly, Northern, Circle, Metropolitan and Hammersmith & City lines, and follow the directions above.
General enquiries - tel: 0844 3351802 www.heathrowairport.com Enter TW6 1AP (Terminal 1), TW6 1QG (Terminal 3), TW6 3XA (Terminal 4) or TW6 2GA (Terminal 5) in the Postcode box of the Journey Planner .
The most straightforward journey into Central London is by Taking the Piccadilly Underground line (from Terminals 1, 2, 3; Terminal 4 or Terminal 5) direct to King's Cross/St Pancras.
The journey takes approximately 60-65 minutes but is relatively inexpensive.
The Heathrow Express - www.heathrowexpress.com - takes only 15 minutes from Heathrow Central (Terminals 1, 2 and 3 and via the Heathrow Connect shuttle from Terminal 4) and 21 minutes from Terminal 5 to Paddington Station in Central London, but is more expensive.
Heathrow Connect - www.heathrowconnect.com - also run services into Paddington every 30 minutes, with the journey taking about 25 minutes.
From Paddington, take the Underground to King's Cross/St Pancras, then follow the directions from Kings Cross/St Pancras above.
By Car : follow signs to the M4.
At Junction 4 take the M4 (towards Slough).
At Junction 4B take the M25 (towards Watford) and travel for approximately 45 minutes to Junction 23 (A1(M) and the South Mimms Motorway Services area).
Turn off and follow signs for Royal Veterinary College (approximately 5 minutes).
Or stay on the M25 to Junction 24 (recommended) and follow the directions above - Driving to Hawkshead .
General enquiries - tel: 0844 3351802 www.gatwickairport.com Enter RH6 0NP (South Terminal) or RH6 0JP (North Terminal) in the Postcode box of the Journey Planner .
The quickest way into London is to take the Gatwick Express - www.gatwickexpress.com - (every 15 minutes) to Victoria Station in Central London (journey time about 30 minutes) and then proceed by Underground (Victoria Line) to King's Cross/St Pancras.
Train services into London are also provided by: ThamesLink - www.thameslinkrailway.com - direct to St Pancras International and Southern www.southernrailway.com to Victoria or London Bridge (then by Underground, Victoria or Northern Line respectively, to Kings Cross/St Pancras)
See above for directions from Kings Cross/St Pancras .
By Car : follow signs to the M23.
At Junction 9A join the M23 (towards London).
At Junction 8 take the M25 (towards Heathrow) and travel for approximately 45 minutes to Junction 23 (A1(M) and the South Mimms Motorway Services area).
Allow two hours for whole journey.
General enquiries - tel: 0844 3351830 www.stanstedairport.com Enter CM24 1RW in the Postcode box of the Journey Planner .
The Stansted Express runs from Stansted Airport to London's Liverpool Street station every 15 minutes from about 0530 hrs to 0130 - see www.stanstedexpress.com for timetable.
The journey takes 46 minutes.
From Liverpool Street station take the Underground on the Circle, Metropolitan or Hammersmith & City Lines to Kings Cross/St Pancras (see above for directions from Kings Cross/St Pancras ).
By Car : from Stansted Airport (Junction 8) travel southbound on the M11 to Junction 27 on the M25.
Then travel anti-clockwise on the M25 to Junction 24 and follow the directions above - Driving to Hawkshead .
The whole journey should take about 60 minutes.
General enquiries - tel: 01582 405100 www.london-luton.co.uk Enter LU2 9QT in the Postcode box of the Journey Planner .
A shuttle bus service runs every 10 minutes to Luton Airport Parkway station.
From Luton Airport Parkway train services to London are provided by East Midlands Trains - www.eastmidlandstrains.co.uk - (journey time from 24 minutes) and ThamesLink - www.thameslinkrailway.com - (journey time from 32 minutes).
Both services run through to London St Pancras International (see above for directions from Kings Cross/St Pancras ).
By Car : travel southbound from Luton Airport on the M1 to Junction 21a on the M25.
Then travel clockwise on the M25 to Junction 23 (A1(M) and the South Mimms Motorway Services area).
Allow about 50 minutes for the journey.
For full details enter E16 2PX in the Postcode box of the Journey Planner .
General enquiries - tel: 020 7646 0088 www.londoncityairport.com Enter E16 2PX in the Postcode box of the Journey Planner .
The Docklands Light Railway (DLR) operates a service from the airport to Bank (Underground station) every eight to 15 minutes.
The journey takes about 22 minutes.
From Bank take the Underground (Northern Line) to Kings Cross/St Pancras (see above for directions from Kings Cross/St Pancras ).
By Car : Follow Hartmann Road and turn right onto the A112.
At the second roundabout take the third exit onto the A1020.
Follow the A1020 for about three miles then, at the major junction with the A13, take the second exit onto the A406 (the North Circular).
Follow the A406 for about four miles and join the M11 at Junction 4 (towards Harlow).
At Junction 6 join the M25 (towards Watford).
Stay on the M25 to Junction 24 and follow the directions above - Driving to Hawkshead .
Allow up to two hours, depending on traffic, for the whole journey.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people:
The Royal Veterinary College has a dedicated workforce of around 1100 employees based at its two sites in central London and rural Hertfordshire.
We focus on educating the brightest and best students in the veterinary sciences as well as providing support for the veterinary profession.
Our people play a key role in ensuring that we maintain our position as one of the leaders in our field through supporting our academic and research community and maintaining high levels of service within our hospitals, teaching facilities, administration and across the Estate.
Staff development is important to us and we promote professional development for all categories of staff.
For further details or to see our current vacancies please choose from the options in the menu on the left.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/governance-policy-legal/policy-and-legal:
The RVC operates in accordance with its Royal Charter and Statutes, with relevant legislation and regulation, and with the Higher Education Code of Governance , issued by the Committee of University Chairmen (CUC).
The safety and health of our staff and students, the College's visitors, the animals in our care and the neighbouring community are of paramount importance.
In addition, the protection and preservation of the College's reputation, the standard of our services and our clinical facilities are key to our continued operations when managing a crisis situation.
In the event of a crisis, once all health and safety issues have been addressed, we must strive to ensure continuity of service to our students and clients.
Accordingly a College continuity strategy has been developed and is set out in this plan.
Its purpose is to ensure that recovery from a major disruption is achieved through efficient and systematic work practices managed by our Crisis Management Team ably supported by co-opted personnel as the situation demands.It is essential that the College continuity plan is effective and so will be regularly reviewed and tested through rehearsals.
The Royal Veterinary College looks to all management and staff to give this plan their fullest support.
This Page will be updated in the event of an incident which invokes the business continuity plan at the RVC
The object of this Policy is to delineate how Conflicts of Interest are managed by the RVC.
RVC Policy on Conflicts of Interest
This document details the RVC Policy and Procedures for the processing and managing of personal data in the all areas of RVC's activities.
RVC Data Protection Policy
This document details the RVC Policy for Due Diligence and Relationship Review.
RVC Due Diligence and Relationship Review Policy
Ethical Principles for the acceptance of gifts
See Annual Report and Financial Statements
General Complaints Resolution Procedure
The RVC’s Health & Safety Policy Statement (PDF)
The RVC’s Health & Safety Organisation and Arrangements (PDF)
See the Human Resources A-Z Forms and Policies for documentation relating to standards of conduct for staff.
This section includes the following policies:
Freedom of Information Policy
Freedom of Information Policy for Staff
Records Management Policy
Publication Scheme
Submitting a Freedom of Information (FOI) or Environmental Information Regulations (EIR) Request
Copyright Policy for Staff and Students
Cookies
Accessibility Issues
See IT Policies and Regulations for information related to the use of IT resources (RVC computers, internet, telephones, printers.
etc.) by RVC students and staff.
In November 2020 the RVC formally adopted the IHRA definition of Anti-Semitism and agreed to utilise it alongside the clear conceptualisation of Anti-Semitism as hostility to, prejudice, or discrimination against Jews.
The RVC acknowledges the examples provided alongside the IHRA definition and may refer to them if relevant to a specific case whilst also demonstrating due regard to our policy on Freedom of Speech & Expression and our statutory duty in accordance with the Education (No.2) Act 1986 (Section 43).
The IHRA’s non-legally binding working definition of antisemitism is as follows: “Antisemitism is a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews.
Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.” Further details can be found here: https://www.holocaustremembrance.com/resources/working-definitions-charters/working-definition-antisemitism
More information on Equality & Diversity at the RVC can be found here: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity
The RVC Policy on Freedom of Speech can be found here: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/Media/Default/About/Governance,%20Policy%20and%20Legal/Policy%20and%20Legal/Policy%20and%20Code%20of%20Practice%20on%20Freedom%20of%20%20Speech%20and%20Expression%20Mr19.pdf
In accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 the RVC makes an annual Statement on slavery and human trafficking.
This Statement is part of the RVC’s commitment to improving our practices in order to combat modern slavery and human trafficking.
The Statement is approved by the RVC Council and signed by the Chair: Baroness Young of Old Scone.
The current statement can be viewed through the following link: 'Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2024' .
In pursuant to the Office of Students Conditions of Registration F1 , the RVC is required to publish the Transparency Information 2023.
This report includes the number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It shows these numbers by reference to:
Access the Transparency Information 2023
The object of this Policy, the Code of Practice and related policies is to delineate how Freedom of Speech and Freedom of Expression are protected by and operated within the law at the RVC.
Policy and Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech and Expression
Please visit the Prevent Duty page for more information.
A privacy notice is a statement that discloses some or all of the ways we as a ‘Data Controller’ gather, use, disclose and manage your personal data.
The Data Controller is the body – in this case the RVC – that determines the purposes for which and the manner in which any personal data are, or are to be, processed.
RVC Alumni Privacy Notice
RVC Student Privacy Notice
RVC Client Privacy Notice
RVC CPD Privacy Notice
RVC Community Relations Privacy Notice
RVC For All Privacy Notice
Information and Data Processing at the RVC - a Guide for Veterinary Practices
Guidance on what to do if you wish to raise confidentially an issue of concern pertaining to financial, legal, environmental or other conduct
Public Interest Disclosure
Raising a Concern
Customer Service Charter
Please visit the RVC's Risk Management Strategy and Policy pages for more information.
Sponsorship and Corporate Relationships Policy
If you continue to browse and use this website, you are agreeing to comply with and be bound by the following terms and conditions of use, which together with our privacy policy govern The Royal Veterinary College’s relationship with you in relation to this website.
If you disagree with any part of these terms and conditions, please do not use our website.
The term ‘(The) Royal Veterinary College’ or ‘RVC’ or ‘us’ or ‘we’ refers to the owner of the website whose registered office is Royal College Street, London NW1 0TU, United Kingdom.
The term ‘you’ refers to the user or viewer of our website.
The use of this website is subject to the following terms of use:
By visiting the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) website and using the information available on it, you agree to the following:
Copyright of all the material, including text, images, diagrams, videos, animations, underlying source code and software available on this site is owned by The Royal Veterinary College.
All rights reserved.
Visitors to the site may view the site and download any part(s) of it to a personal computer (or other device which is capable of accessing the internet) for personal viewing for private purposes only but you are not permitted without our permission to:
If you have any queries, please contact webmaster@rvc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/governance-policy-legal/accessibility:
This website is run by The Royal Veterinary College.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website aren’t fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you within 24 hours (Monday to Friday)
If you can’t view the map on our ‘find us’ pages , call or email us https://www.rvc.ac.uk/contact-us for directions.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems that aren’t listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact: webmaster@rvc.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
We provide a text relay service for people who are D/deaf, hearing impaired or have a speech impediment.
If you have any other specific requirements which you would like us to be aware of before you visit us you can find out how to contact us at https://www.rvc.ac.uk/study/support-for-students/getting-support/disabilities-dyslexia-and-long-term-health-differences
The Royal Veterinary College is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
Some of our forms are built and hosted through third party software and embedded into the website as iframes.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.3.1 (information and relationships).
We’ve assessed the cost of either developing our website to host these forms and then pass the data into our CRM system (rather than directly through iframes).
We believe that doing so now would be a disproportionate burden within the meaning of the accessibility regulations.
We will make another assessment when the CRM supplier contract is up for renewal, likely to be in May 2020.
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents don’t meet accessibility standards - for example, they may not be structured so they’re accessible to a screen reader.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.2 (name, role value) .
Some of our PDFs are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services.
By September 2023, we plan to either fix these or replace them with accessible HTML pages.
The accessibility regulations don’t require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
For example, we don’t plan to fix https://www.rvc.ac.uk/Media/Default/BVD/documents/VetResBoothetal2013.pdf
Any new PDFs we publish will meet accessibility standards.
Live video streams pre-2019 and hosted on Facebook don’t have captions.
This doesn’t meet WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.2.4 (captions - live) .
We don’t plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
All live video streams from 2019 onwards are hosted on YouTube using the built in captioning capability.
This website was last tested on 3rd September 2019 and all 82 pages of RVC Equine were tested on 11th October 2022.
These tests were carried out internally by our web team using a variety of online tools (i.e.
https://www.powermapper.com and https://wave.webaim.org) .
The approach we used when deciding on a sample of pages to test was:
We tested our main website platform, available at www.rvc.ac.uk
Please contact us at webmaster@rvc.ac.uk if you have any problems; be as specific and detailed as you can.
Please also tell us what you like and find useful.
The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) has useful tips on contacting organisations about inaccessible websites .
When you contact us there is a process in place that will acknowledge your contact, tell you who is dealing with it and give you a timescale by which you can expect a reply.
This statement was prepared on 4th September 2019.
It was last updated on 11th October 2022.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/news-and-events/rvc-news/the-rvc-awarded-silver-for-teaching-excellence-and-gold-for-student-outcomes:
Published: 28 Sep 2023 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2023 10:07:05
The RVC has been awarded an overall Silver rating in the Teaching Excellence and Student Outcomes Framework (TEF) which has been published today by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE).
We are proud to have been awarded Gold for ‘Student Outcomes’ which is measured on the extent to which positive outcomes and learning gain are achieved for all students, including those from disadvantaged backgrounds.
The TEF assesses universities on the quality of their teaching by looking at measures including student satisfaction, student retention rates and graduate employment levels.
Its award ratings of Gold, Silver and Bronze are valid for up to three years.
Professor Stuart Reid CBE, President and Principal of the RVC said:
"With the publication of the TEF results, as a specialist institution we are pleased to see the quality of our outcomes recognised at the highest level.
In seeking to optimise the satisfaction of all our students, in what is a demanding subject area, we will be redoubling our efforts to ensure we meet their expectations in all our offerings and maximise our overall score".

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/history:
The RVC has a fascinating history, which began with the foundation of the Veterinary College, London, and the establishment of the veterinary profession in the UK.
In the racing seasons of 1769 and 1770 a horse called Eclipse dominated English horse-racing.
Eclipse was retired from racing in 1770 unbeaten and stood at stud until he died in 1789, at the age of 25.
Veterinary expertise was needed to understand the cause of Eclipse’s death and the secret of his racing success.
The only qualified vet in the country at the time was Frenchman Charles Benoit Vial de St Bel, who was gaining support for his plan to establish a vet school.
St Bel had the support of the Odiham Agricultural Society, whose members recognised the need for a better understanding of animal husbandry and disease.
A London committee was set up to establish a vet school, whose members included Granville Penn, grandson of William Penn.
The Veterinary College, London, was built in the parish of St Pancras in 1791, on the current site of The RVC’s Camden Campus and in January 1792, four students began a three-year course intended to cover all aspects of the veterinary art.
In 1875 the College received its first Charter of Incorporation from Queen Victoria.
Over one hundred years, the College had grown from a horse infirmary with a handful of students to a science based institution, producing internationally-renowned veterinarians and scientists.
John McFadyean, the first modern veterinary scientist in England, joined the RVC as professor of pathology and bacteriology in 1891.
McFadyean established a research institute in animal pathology, which contributed to fight against tuberculosis and glanders as major diseases of man and animals.
His successor, Frederick Hobday, launched famous ‘Giant Nosebag Appeal’, fundraising campaign, which led to the College buying the freehold of the Camden site and starting to build modern facilities to support veterinary scientists.
The RVC's association with pioneering female veterinarians such as Olga Uvarov who graduated from the RVC in 1934 and was the first woman to become President of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons in 1976, is symbolic of our continuing desire to provide equality of education for all.
In 1949 The Royal Veterinary College became a full part of the University of London, whilst retaining its independence with its own Royal Charter, and in 1955 the College acquired a country estate in Hertfordshire to provide a new field station; today our modern and vibrant Hawkshead campus.
More recent developments include the building of the Queen Mother Hospital for Animals in Hertfordshire, which today treats over 7,000 patients a year and, in 2001, seventy-six years after the opening of the College's Research Institute in Animal Pathology at Camden, the establishment of the London Bioscience Innovation Centre, which houses over 40 life science companies.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Biosciences at the RVC
BSc Biological Sciences – available with placement year
BSc Bioveterinary Sciences – available with placement year
BSc Animal Biology, Behaviour, Welfare and Ethics – available with placement year
New!
BSc Biological Sciences (Wildlife Health Sciences) – available with placement year
MSci Applied Biological Research – available with placement year
MSci Applied Bioveterinary Research – available with placement year
MSci Biological Sciences – available with placement year
MSci Bioveterinary Sciences – available with placement year
MSci Biological Sciences (Wildlife Health Sciences) – available with placement year
Intercalated BSc Bioveterinary Science
Intercalated BSc Comparative Pathology
Veterinary Medicine at the RVC
Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine
Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine Accelerated Programme
Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine with Intercalated Year
Bachelor of Veterinary Science
Veterinary Gateway Programme
Veterinary Nursing at the RVC
FdSc Veterinary Nursing
BSc Veterinary Nursing
Graduate Certificate in Advanced Veterinary Nursing
Making an application through UCAS
International Students
RVC For All
Pre-Vet Summer School
Contact us
Our Campuses
Camden Accommodation
Hawkshead Accommodation
Student Life
First Opinion Animal Hospital
Small Animal Referrals
Equine Hospital & Ambulatory Practice
Boltons Park Farm

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
One Health: ecosystems, humans and animals
Veterinary Epidemiology
Wild Animal Biology
Wild Animal Health
Veterinary Education
Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced Veterinary Nursing
Postgraduate Certificate in Veterinary Clinical Studies
Veterinary Epidemiology and Public Health
Individual Modules
RCVS Certificate of Advanced Veterinary Practice
Livestock Health and Production
Professional Doctorate
PhD
Master of Research (MRes)
One-year Internships:
Small Animal
Equine
Exotic Animal
Production Animal
Veterinary Primary Accessible Care Internship
Three-year Residencies:
Small Animal (including Pathology)
Comparative
Zoo Health Management
+44 (0) 20 7468 5147
+44 (0) 20 7468 5147
+44(0) 20 7468 5147
Year graduated: 2020
Country you studied in: Thailand
"The study has benefitted almost all aspects of my work.
From designing a project with risk assessment, to giving technical advice to countries on outbreak investigation, plus data analysis and presenting about a high-impact disease".
RVC students benefit from having a dedicated team of professionals to support them during their studies with us.
Information, advice & guidance on a range of issues such as housing, finances, disabilities (including Dyslexia), mental wellbeing, chaplaincy and more.
The Graduate School is the focus for postgraduate affairs within the College and is the first port of call for information for information for all postgraduate research students.
Questions about private renting, deposit schemes and landlords?
Our housing advice, contact details for legal advice and frequently asked questions are a great starting place!
All the financial information you need as a prospective or existing, UK, EU and international student

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/animals-in-teaching:
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) delivers undergraduate courses in biological sciences , veterinary medicine and veterinary nursing , postgraduate taught courses in a wide range of veterinary-related subject areas and clinical training to veterinary graduates, as well as continuing professional development courses (CPD courses) for veterinary surgeons and veterinary nurses from many areas of clinical practice.
It's important that all our students are given the best experience possible with a particular emphasis on prioritising the welfare of animals used in teaching activities.
Many of our courses benefit from “hands-on” learning, where some aspects are facilitated by using healthy animals and/or cadaveric material.
Use of healthy animals and cadaveric material in teaching is overseen by the RVC Clinical Research Ethical Review Board (healthy animals at Hawkshead Campus and cadaver material at both campuses) and Animal Welfare Ethical Review Body (healthy animals at Camden Campus).
The healthy animals used in teaching include those kept at Boltons Park Farm which is a working dairy farm owned by the RVC.
There are 90 pedigree Holstein Friesian cows milking at the farm and 80 young stock.
Also, on the farm at different times of year are up to 600 sheep of mixed breeds, 130 laying hens and a small number of pigs.
The RVC owns 5 ponies and 3 horses which are kept for teaching purposes and an additional 4 horses who are mainly used as blood donors but are occasionally recruited for teaching activities.
These animals are cared for by the RVC Equine Referral Hospital technicians.
When dogs are required, animals owned by RVC staff and students that have been assessed by teaching staff with dog experience as suitable for assisting with teaching are employed.
Approximately 60 dogs are used in undergraduate and postgraduate teaching sessions annually with each dog being used on average 3 times per year (range 1-10 times).
When other species are required for specific teaching sessions, their use is considered on an individual basis and specific owner consent for their use in teaching obtained.
The RVC-owned healthy animals used in teaching include two calves, two rabbits, two hamsters, nine guinea pigs, 20 rats, 42 mice and 30 zebrafish.
The calves come from Boltons Park Farm and are used for teaching in Camden for a short period before returning to the herd and being replaced by a pair of younger animals.
In addition, 24 healthy ferrets are used with owner consent.
The routine husbandry of all these animals is carried out by Biological Services Unit (BSU) staff.
When other species are required for specific teaching sessions, their use is considered on an individual basis and specific owner consent to obtained.
The welfare of animals used in teaching activities is paramount.
RVC-owned animals are cared for by expert technicians and the use of all animals in teaching is overseen by the RVC Ethics and Welfare Committee.
Measures are put in place to ensure that no individual animal is used excessively, that animals get frequent rest breaks, that the teaching session is undertaken in a suitable environment for the species being used, that each species is handled correctly (e.g.
using cupping or tunnel handling method for mice), maximum student numbers for each teaching session are adhered to and that all staff involved in teaching are trained to recognise signs of stress at which point that animal will be removed from the teaching session.
The use of the animals is reviewed on an annual basis by the relevant RVC ethical review board.
In a broader context, as well as ensuring that the welfare of the individual animals used for teaching is prioritised, our teaching with live animals raises the standard of animal welfare generally.
The use of live animals for teaching of appropriate handling techniques and diagnostic examinations in a well-controlled environment where students are supervised by staff with expertise in animal welfare and welfare-focussed handling techniques, means that when those students graduate a high standard of welfare will be employed by those graduates in their interactions with the animals with which they will subsequently work.
Cadavers and cadaveric materials are sometimes required for hands-on teaching at both campuses to allow students to experience the correct feel of tissues being handled without the need to practise on live animals (for instance surgical techniques, locoregional anaesthesia techniques).
Cadavers and cadaveric material are obtained from a number of sources each of which has been approved by the RVC Clinical Research Ethical Review Board (CRERB) with specific owner consent.
Sources include animals donated via the RVC Educational Memorial Program , residual tissues that remain after an animal has undergone a post mortem examination at the RVC, by-products of the food industry from Food Standards Agency approved abattoirs , by-products of the pet-food industry from suppliers that are inspected by DEFRA, fallen stock collected by premises approved by DEFRA for animal by-products operating plants and RVC owned animals that die or are euthanised for veterinary reasons.
As well as the source of the cadaver needing to be approved, individual teaching sessions that require cadaveric material are also approved by the RVC CRERB.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding:
All the financial information you need as a prospective or existing, UK, EU and international student at the RVC.
We can also help you with related information on funding available to you.
Prospective and continuing students can apply for:
Tuition Fee Loans
Maintenance Loans
Apply online at www.gov.uk/studentfinance
Please be aware that the application process for continuing students has changed, from AY 2019/20 students will not be automatically rolled over.
They will be required to submit their application on the GOV.UK website.
Other useful links

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us:
Throughout the year we host a myriad of on-campus visiting opportunities, as well attending off-campus events in order to help prospective students and their supporters gain a real insight into the RVC and our study opportunities.
We hope to meet you soon!
Most of our events are limited by number, so we recommend that you book your place early.
If you have any further questions please email schools@rvc.ac.uk .
We run specific programmes to support people from backgrounds that are underrepresented at RVC – see Widening Participation to see if we have opportunities for you.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/projects/veeph/molecular-analysis-of-antibiotic-resistance-in-nigeria:
Species: Cattle
Species: Goats
Species: Humans
Species: Pigs
Species: Poultry
Species: Sheep
Location: Nigeria
Start date: 1 Jan 2018
End date: TBC
Antimicrobial Resistance
Food Safety
Veterinary Epidemiology, Economics and Public Health
This project aimed to characterize the molecular epidemiology of extended-spectrum β-lactamase Enterobacteriaceae in food animals and in-contact humans in Southeast Nigeria.
The indiscriminate use of antimicrobial agents in humans and livestock imposes a selective pressure for the emergence of antimicrobial resistance among bacteria.
In Nigeria, the production of extended-spectrum β-lactamases (ESBL) has been recognised as a common mechanism of resistance to third-generation cephalosporins among Enterobacteriaceae .
Initially, ESBL-producing bacteria were only observed in human medical practice but recent reports from Southeast Nigeria indicate a high prevalence in food-producing animals, which is of significant public health concern.
The Enterobacteriaceae family harbours various antibiotic resistance genes, which may include ESBL genes, carbapenemases, and colistin resistance genes.
Multi-drug-resistant ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae constitute an emerging public health concern, yet there is a paucity of information on the molecular epidemiology of ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae isolated from humans and food animals in Southeast Nigeria.
The objectives of the study were:
Phase One
The first phase of this study was conducted at the University of Nigeria Nsukka from January to August 2018.
Four hundred samples (comprising faecal swab samples from food animals and human hand swabs) were collected from the five Southeast States in Nigeria during the harmattan (cold dry season usually between December and February), hot dry (between March and May) and raining season (between June and September) from slaughterhouses (abattoirs)[DJ2] , animal markets and animal farms.
Phase Two
The second phase of the study involved a 12-month placement based at RVC and the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA).
The molecular analysis was conducted at APHA, and the epidemiological analysis was conducted at the RVC.
Molecular analysis
Epidemiological analyses
The study will provide information on ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae colonisation of animals.
This information will add to our understanding of the risk to those who come in contact with, and those who eat meat from, food animals sold in different parts of Southeast Nigeria.
To improve our understanding of the prevalence and distribution of ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae in animals and humans within a region, we need robust methodical sampling from geographically distributed locations.
Hence, this study was undertaken to detect the epidemiology of ESBL-producing isolates from apparently healthy humans and food animals across five different States (Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo), and to characterise the carriage of ESBL genes by molecular techniques using real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and whole genome sequencing to better understand the AMR genes harboured.
There are currently no holistic One Health approaches established in Nigeria to tackle infectious diseases.
Establishing the molecular epidemiology of ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae in human and animal populations will provide information to help design One Health approaches to curb the incidence of infections with these resistant organisms.
This research was mainly funded by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK and additional funding was from the RVC, University of London, and the UK FAO Reference Centre for Antimicrobial Resistance (which receives funding from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and UK aid funding from the Department of Health and Social Care’s Fleming Fund).
Researchers were Solomon Olorunleke, Lucy Brunton, Kim Stevens, Muna Anjum ( APHA ), Kennedy Chah ( University of Nigeria Nsukka ), John Nwanta ( University of Nigeria Nsukka )

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/projects/dawndinos-testing-the-locomotor-superiority-hypothesis-for-early-dinosaurs:
Species: Dinosaurs
Location: United Kingdom
Location: United States
Start date: 1 Aug 2016
End date: 1 Mar 2022
Musculoskeletal Biology
Structure and Motion
DAWNDINOS is in the final year of a five-year research programme studying the dawn of the age of the dinosaurs.
This ERC Advanced Investigator grant-funded project, awarded to Prof.
John Hutchinson, seeks to unify evolutionary and biomechanical research by achieving a “functional synthesis” in evolution that causally links the anatomy of extinct dinosaurs and their relatives (archosaurs; “ruling reptiles”) to actual performance.
In this study we are testing the old “locomotor superiority” hypothesis that early, bipedal dinosaurs evolved advantages in their locomotor performance over other Late Triassic archosaurs.
This hypothesis was first proposed to explain what made dinosaurs distinct from other Triassic species, perhaps aiding their survival into the Jurassic period.
However, the hypothesis remains untested or unfairly dismissed.
The Dawndinos research is directly testing this question for the first time.
In the first half of the study, extant archosaurs Nile crocodiles Crocodylus niloticus ) and tinamou birds ( Eudromia elegans ) allowed us to experimentally measure key factors (such as 3D skeletal motions and limb forces) that are involved in five behaviours: walking, running, jumping, standing up, and turning.
We then used biomechanical computer simulations to estimate how these behaviours were achieved and estimate performance determinants we cannot measure, such as muscle forces or lengths and consider whether more extreme behaviours (e.g., faster speeds) might still have been feasible but not observed.
This refined our simulations by testing major assumptions, and is validating them for studying extinct archosaurs, thereby overcoming the obstacle that has long limited researchers to qualitative, subjective morphological inferences of performance.
Now, in the last few months of our study, we are using our simulation tools to model at least eleven Triassic/early Jurassic archosaurs and predict how they may have moved, and to compare how their performance in the five behaviours related to locomotor traits, testing if the results fit expected patterns for “locomotor superiority.”
This study pushes the frontiers of experimental and computational analysis of movement by combining the best measurements of performance with the best digital tools, to predict how form and function are coordinated to achieve maximal athletic behaviours in a given species.
Rigorous, integrative analyses will move the field of evolutionary biomechanics forward, enabling new inquiries into how behaviour relates to underlying traits or even palaeoecology, environments, biogeography, biotic diversity, disparity or other factors.
Previous studies of crocodylian and avian locomotion were focused mainly on American alligators and galliforms (chickens, guineafowl and kin; poultry).
We have added valuable new datasets on distantly related species (Nile crocodiles and elegant-crested tinamous) that broaden our perspective on the ways that living crocodiles and birds move.
The study has benefited from a large team of scientific advisors and collaborators involved in diverse aspects of this project.
Including Delyle Polet , Ashleigh Wiseman , James Charles , Phil Morris , François Clarac.
Previous members of Dawndinos team include Vivian Allen, Andrew Cuff, Peter Bishop, Romain PIntore and Emily Keeble and can be found on the Collaborators page of the Dawndinos website.
Professor John Hutchinson has done a number of interviews on Dawndinos research for the BBC including the “Earth’s Earliest Life” Science programme on BBC Radio 4, and previously BBC 2 TV documentaries with Chris Packham and Sir David Attenborough.
He has featured on the I Know Dinosaurs ‘The Big Dinosaur Podcast’ talking about the project and other dinosaur related research and also engaged with 8th Grade students in the US through a series of five ‘Skype the Scientist’ sessions.
The DAWNDINOS team has delivered a wide range of project related outreach activities through our extensive science engagement programme, details of which can be found on the activities and outreach pages of our website and include RVC open days, summer schools and student visits to the Structure and Motion Lab, the 2019 ‘ Dawndinos Night at the Vet College ' event to celebrate National Biomechanics Day and our Triassic Vertebrate Palaeontology Meetup conference (online) in  May 2021.
Our outreach work with schools is of particular note as dinosaur palaeontology provides a strong basis for increasing understanding and interest in STEM topics.
In 2017 the Dawndinos team linked up with the City of London Academy and delivered a ‘science through art’ after-school outreach project.
The project included a series of five dinosaur/art club sessions for students aged 11-18 years.
It was closely linked to DAWNDINOS scientific research, dinosaur evolution, and presented in a workshop format through different art-based activities.
As well as palaeontology, three-dimensional digital and physical modelling appeals to students for its visually intuitive and technological aspect and can convey a wide variety of STEM concepts of varying degrees of complexity.
We introduced these ideas at our school-based science ‘dinosaur club’ at a local secondary school, Onslow St Audrey’s, in Hatfield ( Nov/Dec 2018 & 2019 ) in five, 1-hour sessions.
We covered our archosaurian evolutionary biomechanics Dawndinos research and introduced students to major concepts in morphology (anatomy), showing how morphology is central to the study of organisms, biomechanics, behaviour, ecosystems and evolution.
In February 2021 we successfully adapted this “on site, in-person” programme to an online format for students at Chancellor’s School in Brookman’s Park which was very well received with excellent feedback from the students.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/projects/airscan:
Species: Big cats
Location: Botswana
Location: South Africa
Start date: 1 Jul 2018
End date: 1 Dec 2019
CPCS (Research Programme)
The LOCATE project studied the locomotion and hunting behaviours of large African carnivores.
AIRSCAN grew out of that project and makes available the aerial survey and data acquisition airplane.
During its first deployment in the LOCATE project , the aircraft allowed us to understand more about behaviour and locomotion in wild, free-ranging animals in southern Africa.
The on-board technology helped reveal new insights into how animals interact with their natural environment, which will aid conservation and land management.
The modified aircraft was originally built for studying large African carnivores and their prey in the savannah of northern Botswana.
The researchers developed new ways of recording the detailed movements of these animals without disturbing them, using our wildlife tracking collars.
From the air, we can film hunts using high speed video cameras which 'lock on' to the collars, thus capturing in detail the manoeuvring of the hunt that would be impossible using a hand-held camera or from the ground.
As our subject animals are wild and free-ranging, they move and are distributed over a massive study area.
Our plane saves us driving all over the savannah to locate and get close enough to the animals to download collar data and benefits them as well because we can fly within 200-300 metres of them to pick up biomechanics data and upload new collar firmware without interfering in their natural behaviour.
To examine how the animals interact with their natural environment and potentially utilise land features, the plane carries a LiDAR system and medium-format survey camera to perform aerial surveys.
The scan data is reconstructed as a 3D point cloud and creates a detailed map of the ground, showing the vegetation, areas of water, tracks on the ground, and terrain features such as dips and hollows, termite mounds and mud flats.
Collar data from a hunt can be overlaid on these scans to visualise where and at what speed predator or prey moved over the terrain during a chase, and how the animal may have utilised land features to its advantage.
The plane is a Groppo Trail, bought as a kit and built by us specifically for our research.
We chose this model for several reasons, including:
- It is a small aircraft of low running cost and conventional design – meaning that the aircraft is easily modified to equip with camera equipment and aerial LiDAR.
- The tandem seating arrangement and high wings allow good visibility of the ground.
- The benign handling and low stall speed are ideal for wildlife tracking.
- Folding wings make it easy to store, trailer and ship in a 20-foot shipping container to Botswana and back.
- The UK supplier, Graham Smith, has an excellent reputation for supporting self-builders as he is a very experienced aircraft builder and pilot.
Following the success of our modified research aircraft in our LOCATE project, the AIRSCAN project allows us to commercialise and make available the modifications developed for a modular, single-operator aerial survey and data acquisition airplane, the Trail ADAP.
The potential users for this technologically advanced yet undemanding aerial data acquisition platform include government, NGOs, companies and individuals, with applications ranging from mapping, survey data collection, conservation, academic research and many more.
We thank the European Research Council for funding this research.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/projects/veeph/vet-compass-project:
Species: Cats
Species: Dogs
Species: Rabbits
Species: Rodents
Start date: 16 Feb 2009
VetCompass
VetCompass is a welfare-focussed epidemiological research project that shares anonymised clinical data from veterinary practices to investigate the frequency and nature of companion animal health problems.
Modern veterinary medicine has access to increasingly effective tools for diagnosis and treatment; yet many animals still continue to suffer from disorders that might be reduced or avoided if risks were better understood and measured.
For example, a better understanding of inherited disorders will help design effective control measures, such as improved breeding programmes and health screening of high-risk breeds.
There is also a need to measure the levels of disease among the companion animal population to help prioritise disorders based on health and welfare impact and to monitor patterns in disease over time and geographically.
Previously, veterinary clinical research focused mainly on clinical data from referral centres.
Referral clinical caseloads can facilitate certain types of clinical research by generally providing good diagnostic precision, detailed clinical workup and access to specialist clinicians and equipment.
However, referral biases relating to the spectrum of disorders, patients and facilities seen at secondary care centres mean that it is often difficult to generalise findings from referral studies to the wider companion animal population.
As we move inexorably into the era of evidence-based veterinary medicine, a ready availability of reliable answers on wide-ranging health questions relating to the general population of companion animals becomes essential to improve veterinary knowledge, care and animal welfare.
Every day, veterinarians in general practice examine, diagnose and treat large numbers of animal patients.
This information is stored in individual computerised practice management systems.
Until recently, the potential of these computerised records to generate vital information on national companion animal health remained largely untapped.
The VetCompass vision is to share clinical data in a de-identified format, and merge them within a single database for research that will benefit the long term health and welfare of animals.
Veterinary practitioners are the ‘eyes, ears and hands’ of the profession and as such practice clinical record systems house a wealth of health information.
VetCompass use this information for epidemiological research and, to facilitate this, has developed a secure system for the transfer of anonymised patient records from veterinary practices to a central database.
This system is currently used to collect records from over 1,800 veterinary practices and the project is continuing to grow.
VetCompass is designed to fill knowledge gaps in veterinary medicine and produce practical healthcare information that can:
On a day-to-day basis, there is no change to practice workflow and patterns.
Practicing veterinarians already record high quality clinical records and VetCompass does not request that any extra information are recorded.
VetCompass simply uses the information that practices already record and applies cutting edge data-mining techniques to analyse these huge volumes of data.
VetCompass only collects anonymised clinical and demographic data.
The data fields collected include the summary diagnosis term (VeNom code), free-text clinical notes and treatment details, along with date of birth, sex, breed, microchip number, insurance status and partial postcode.
Animal names, client details and financial information are not shared.
The VetCompass project has rapidly expanded since its conception to include over 20 million animals from > 1,800 UK participating veterinary practices (~30% of all UK practices).
VetCompass studies to date are diverse e.g.
epilepsy, cancer, skin disease, endocrinopathies, behaviour and heart disease, as well as drug therapy and also describing general longevity and mortality in dogs, cats and rabbits.
Results from these studies have been published in ~125 peer reviewed papers and presented at national and international conferences.
Other VetCompass research dissemination strategies include press releases, radio and other media interviews, social media posts and onward sharing by partners such as the Kennel Club or British Veterinary Association.
The output from these and future VetCompass research projects will increasingly benefit animal health and welfare.
In 2013, an international collaboration with colleagues at the University of Sydney was launched.
'VetCompass Australia' aims to apply the UK VetCompass approach to companion animal health data collection for disease monitoring and surveillance across Australia.
In 2016, Equine VetCompass was launched which will allow us to better understand the types and frequency of disorders affecting horses in the UK.
More recently in 2019, Farm Animal VetCompass was launched, to explore antimicrobial use in Farm Animals.
VetCompass data contribute to a diverse range of MSc, PhD and other research projects that aim to reveal novel insights into the health of small animals.
These results contribute to the evidence base that veterinarians now use every day to improve the health and welfare of their patients.
VetCompass has a large number of supporters and collaborators: www.rvc.ac.uk/vetcompass/support

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/about:
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC), aspires to be the leading organisation of its kind globally in the discovery and dissemination of knowledge relevant improving the health of humans and animals.
Key to delivering our strategy are the great researchers in our teams.
Our research is of the highest quality and has an impact on the health and welfare of humans and animals around the world.
Search our staff profiles by name and learn more about their projects, expertise and publications:
RVC research falls under two themes, both embracing the One Health philosophy and encouraging multidisciplinary approaches.
These are Comparative Physiology and Clinical Sciences (CPCS) and Integrated Research into Livestock and Food Systems (IRLFS) encompassing research relevant to companion and food producing animals respectively.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/projects:
Explore some of our current research using the interactive map below:
Antibiotic usage on dairy farms in GB: improving data capture and exploring drivers
Determining the accuracy of antibiotic usage data being recorded by dairy farmers, and assessing the drivers/barriers to sharing data exploring the economic cost of recording.
Bird wings act as a suspension system that rejects gusts
Scientists from the RVC and the University of Bristol have discovered how birds are able to fly in gusty conditions – findings that could inform the development of bio-inspired small-scale aircraft.
Epilepsy in companion animals
RVC Researchers and clinicians have devoted more than a decade of work to improving our understanding of epilepsy in dogs and cats.
We are reframing the understanding of epilepsy as a brain disease, and are pioneering new approaches to its treatment.
Evaluating the surveillance system for Antimicrobial Use (AMU) and Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
The project aims to assess the value of integrated surveillance systems for AMU and AMR in the UK from a One Health (OH) perspective.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/our-impact:
The RVC’s underpinning philosophy is to encourage curiosity-driven research which benefits lives of humans and animals.
When undertaking our research, we recognise that for it to have societal or economic impact, we need to work with diverse stakeholders including policy-makers, social scientists and ethicists throughout the research journey.
Our comparative, global, integrated and inter-disciplinary (One Health) approaches have led to impacts in fields as diverse as understanding the health of pedigree dogs, studying the development of global zoonotic pandemics, and utilising the biomechanics of bird flight to generate impact on aviation.
These brief summaries are just some examples of the range of areas that RVC research has demonstrated impact.
An update from our REF2021 can be found here .
Find out more about REF2021
Find out more about REF2014 and our past case studies

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/quantitative-biology-strategy:
At the RVC, quantitative biology is fundamental to many of our research disciplines, and our quantitative biology group provides key computational support for our two Research Programmes.
Veterinary epidemiology is the foundation of this cross-cutting group.
BSc, MSc, PhD, PGCVetEd, FHEA Senior Lecturer in Bioinformatics
Dong is a senior lecturer in bioinformatics.
His group focuses on big data analysis, where datasets generated from multiple omics platforms and phenotypic and clinical measurements are integrated for system modelling.
These approaches are applied to the improvement of animal health and welfare through drug and vaccine development, as well as the comprehensive characterisation of medical and veterinary disease pathologies.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/comparative-physiology-and-clinical-sciences:
Our understanding of animal disease, together with the superb facilities at the RVC, means that we are well placed to contribute to the way in which human diseases are diagnosed and treated.
Domestic pets and other animals suffer from diseases which affect humans.
These include degenerative diseases as a result of the ageing process, as well as diseases influenced by exercise and diet.
At the RVC, our physiologists who are able to test new cell and molecular biology findings in animal models, often using these findings to develop treatments for animals and humans.
On this programme we strive to follow the approach of integrating molecular, cell and developmental biology into whole animal physiology and pathology.
This will help in understanding the interaction between genotype and phenotype (including environment, lifestyle - diet and exercise).
BSc(Hons) PhD Professor in Skeletal Dynamics
Professor of Skeletal Dynamics.
His research explores skeletal mechanobiology across diverse biological settings; from the role of embryo movement in the emergence of skeletal form, to how bones and joints respond to functional/ traumatic load in growth, adulthood and ageing.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/integrated-research-in-livestock-and-food-systems:
There is international recognition of the need for new approaches to meet the growing challenges of livestock production, and to control infectious diseases that threaten humans and animals.
Royal Veterinary College researchers work across disciplines at the population and ecosystem level (epidemiologists, public health experts, economists, wildlife biologists); at the herd, individual animal and molecular level (clinical scientists, pathologists, immunologists, reproductive biologists, geneticists, welfare scientists); and at the pathogen level (virologists, bacteriologists, parasitologists).
We aim to find technical solutions, taking into account socio-economic conditions in different countries and work with government and industry to support their implementation.
DrMedVet PhD MRCVS Professor of Molecular Immunology
Professor Dirk Werling's main research interest is the ontogeny of the innate immune system between species, the importance of SNP in innate immune receptors for ligand binding, and how we can use our knowledge regarding the innate immune system to design new/optimise existing vaccine strategies.
Senior Lecturer in Agrihealth
Barbara is working as a Senior Lecturer in Agrihealth at the RVC in collaboration with colleagues from the Leverhulme Centre for Integrative Research on Agriculture and Health (LCIRAH).
She has a strong interest in applying integrated approaches to health to understand better food systems and how changes in those impact on food safety and food security and to improve the wellbeing of people and animals through better resource allocation.
BSc, MSc, PhD, PGCVetEd, FHEA Professor of Parasite Genetics
Damer joined the RVC in 2010, where he was appointed professor in 2016.
Damer is currently Editor-in-Chief of the journal Avian Pathology and a member of the executive committee of the World Veterinary Poultry Association.
PhD Senior Lecturer in Molecular Bacteriology
Sharon began to start work as a Post-Doctoral Fellow with Mycobacterium tuberculosis in 2000 first at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and subsequently at The Royal Veterinary College.
She was appointed as a Lecturer in Microbiology in 2007 and as Senior Lecturer in 2017.
The RVC is a member of the London Centre for Neglected Tropical Diseases Research , an innovative research collaboration between the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , the Natural History Museum , the RVC, and Imperial College London .
The London Centre aims to build the evidence base around the design, implementation, and evaluation of neglected tropical diseases control and elimination programmes.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/news:
The International Collaborative on Extreme Conformations in Dogs (ICECDogs) has released new …

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/facilities-and-resources:
Our cross-cutting Research Centres encourage collaboration across different subject areas, and are enabled by access to state of the art facilities.
The College has particular strengths in veterinary epidemiology, whole animal physiology, comparative pathology, public health, animal welfare, immunology, protozoology and medicine.
We also have expertise in agricultural economics and are building our expertise in mathematical biology.
Through research the RVC strives to ensure animals are contented, interested in life and performing well.
Biology has become increasingly quantitative, with collaborations among mathematicians, statisticians, computer scientists and biologists being essential.
Established in 2005, and now a leading specialist veterinary neuromuscular disease laboratory in Europe.
We address key questions about how animals are structured and how they move, how movement is controlled and what limits performance.
Developing a further understanding of the mechanisms that regulate the growth and survival of the equine embryo and fetus.
We conduct world-class research into tuberculosis at all levels ranging from molecules to metapopulations.
We recruit PhD students usually with a degree in a veterinary sciences, immunology, molecular biology etc.
Our researchers strive for a better understanding of the diseases which affect both humans and animals through population studies.
A state-of-the-art facility for infection and immunity research including open-plan offices and high biosecurity laboratories.
Clinical trials help us to gain a better understanding of diseases which affect animals and ways in which we can improve animal health and welfare.
This new Centre has been created to be a leader in the development and translation of vaccines and regenerative medicine approaches for animal and human health.
Using powerful imaging capabilities of x-ray tomography we are able to image and analyse a variety of samples, including bones, fossils, soft tissues, insects, synthetic materials and more.
The Hawkshead Centre for Translational Research and Clinical Imaging is a specifically designed clinical unit dedicated to innovative health programmes and clinical care activities.
Created in 2020 at our Hawkshead Campus in a drive to provide state-of-the art imaging facilities for researchers, clinicians and contract workers.
A purpose-built facility.
It contains microscopes capable of experiments ranging from basic microscopy of cells or tissues to complex imaging.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/animals-in-research:
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) undertakes a wide variety of research, including some involving animals.
Research involving animals is well regulated in the UK and the RVC has a long-standing commitment to the welfare of animals in research environments.
The College undertakes research to improve the welfare of experimental animals.
The RVC shares society’s desire to minimise the use of animal experimentation and increase the use of scientifically validated alternative methods that reduce, refine or replace the use of animal models.
Nevertheless, animal experimentation remains a necessary part of the scientific discovery process and development of new medicines for veterinary and human clinical use.
Dogs, cats and other companion animals suffer from cancers, heart diseases, diabetes, joint disease and many other conditions.
Research involving these and other species enables the development of new safe and effective veterinary medicines that improve the health and welfare of animals and humans worldwide.
See Facts and Figures for the latest reported data by the RVC on the number of animals that are used in research by species.
See Use of Animals in Research - Case Studies
The RVC undertakes a large number of clinical studies involving veterinary patients who return to the care of their owners at the end of each procedure.
See Research using Client-owned Animals .
The RVC's policy on animals in research: RVC Policy .
Why veterinary schools should be involved in research: RVC Statement on Animal Research .
The use of animals in experiments is regulated under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act (ASPA) .
Some of the research conducted at the RVC takes place under Home Office licences granted under the directions of ASPA.
Many of the animals used under ASPA are purpose bred (e.g.
mice and rats) but some of the research we do on clinical patients (mainly dogs, cats and horses) and on farms (mainly cattle) is done under Home Office licences so we can take samples from our patients with naturally occurring disease that are to advance our knowledge rather than for the benefit of diagnosis and treatment of that animal (which is a requirement if samples are to be taken under the Veterinary Surgeons Act ).
In this case the animals remain with their owner, who gives informed consent to the research samples being taken but always has the option of declining to allow their pet to be involved in the research.
Licence applications are scrutinised by the RVC’s Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body (AWERB), which looks at the balance between potential harm to the animals involved in experiments and the benefits that are likely to accrue from the work.
If the AWERB is happy that all steps have been taken to minimise the harm to the animals involved and that the benefits that are likely to result from the work justify this then the licence application is passed to the Home Office.
The application is then subjected to further scrutiny before permission for the work is granted under the authority of the Home Secretary.
The RVC is a signatory to the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research .
A core principle of this is that the institution is open about how it involves animals in research and why.
As a leading veterinary school, the RVC makes advances in veterinary science that benefit our patients and other animals globally.
Due to commonalities between species, veterinary research findings sometimes help advances in human medicine – just as advances in medical practice help advance veterinary science and practice.
As a leading provider of both first opinion and referral veterinary treatment, the RVC can deliver the best of care to those animals participating in research programmes.
Appropriate socialisation is provided throughout research processes and animals are often rehomed after participation if the Named Veterinary Surgeon thinks this is in the best interests of the animal.
Animal-based research taking place at the RVC helps educate both undergraduate and postgraduate students in robust scientific methodologies and enables courses to be grounded in the most up-to-date knowledge.
A firm grounding in evidence-based practice enables practitioners trained at the RVC to offer the most efficacious treatment to their patients after they graduate.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange:
Since our founding in 1791, the Royal Veterinary College has engaged in research and clinical work for societal and economic benefit, focussed on human and animal medicine.
Knowledge exchange is a process that brings together academic staff, users of research and wider groups and communities to exchange ideas, evidence and expertise for the benefit of society and the economy.
These partnerships are vital to enable the RVC  to create new collaborations or partnerships that have the potential to generate an even greater impact from its research.
Find out more about our work in this space, including the early-stage commercialisation of research and public engagement, using the links below:
The RVC is committed to education, to the discovery and translation of new knowledge, to the protection of public health and to the delivery of optimal clinical care and opinion.
At the heart of our work in Knowledge Exchange is innovative scholarship and pioneering clinical activity, placing the College’s academic staff at the cutting edge of veterinary science and medicine.
The KEF is a national exercise launched in 2020/2021.
The aim of the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) is to increase efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funding for knowledge exchange (KE) and to further a culture of continuous improvement in universities.
At the 2021 KEF results, the RVC ranked nationally in the top 10 per cent of Higher Education providers working with business.
Additionally, the university was in the top 20 per cent for research partnerships, and in the top 30 per cent for working with the public and third sector.
The full KEF dashboard gives illustrative examples of different universities here.
Select Royal Veterinary College from the drop down list.
The RVC offers a range of Knowledge Exchange opportunities.
If you’d like to collaborate with us, or are interested in exploring funding for knowledge exchange with the Royal Veterinary College, you can contact the team: ke@rvc.ac.uk
UKRI GCRF One Health Poultry Hub
The Bloomsbury SET
The London Interdisciplinary Biosciences Consortium
Pioneering stem cell technologies

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/podcasts:
After a seven-year hiatus, the RVC podcast returns with Dominic Barfield taking the reins and talking to the researchers at all stages in their careers about the work that they are doing at the UK’s oldest veterinary school.
Continuing from the back catalogue from Dr Mattias Kleinz (episodes 1 to 20) and Dr Mark Cleasby (episodes 20-50) Dom (episodes 50-63) with the help of Brian Cox will get you back up to speed with how the Royal Veterinary College, the University of London's veterinary school, is pushing the frontiers in veterinary medicine and basic science.
We will provide you with an insight into the current research being undertaken and those dedicated researchers in the pursuit of answering those questions to benefit animal health and welfare, today, tomorrow, and beyond.
We hope that you enjoy it.
Author: Dominic Barfield
Duration: 00:51:58
Welcome to the RVC research podcast, where we are joined by Dr Camilla Pegram, Lecturer in Veterinary Epidemiology here at the RVC.
Dr Pegram is RVC through and through have completed her veterinary degree here and then returned for a Master’s and has recently completed a PhD looking at applying casual inference methods to emulate randomised clinical trials using VetCompass anonymised clinical records.
If you wish to understand, like me, what casual inference is and how it can help, have a listen.
We hope that you enjoy.
To find out more about Dr Pegram’s work, use the following link https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/camilla-pegram
Selected reading material https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31037739/ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33754373/ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36708945/ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31589340/
To Cite this podcast: Dom Barfield.
RVC Research Podcast 64 Dr Camilla Pegram.
Published on Feb 7 2025
If you have any comments about this podcast, please get in touch: email podcast@rvc.ac.uk.
We would greatly appreciate your time to rate us on Apple podcast, Spotify, Acast or your preferred podcast platform and kindly write us a review.
Duration: 00:31:21
Welcome to the RVC research podcast, where we are joined by Dirk Werling, Professor of Molecular Immunology about the technology which is now available to us at the RVC ‘organ on a chip’.
Professor Werling shares his obvious passion for this technology and how with his lead involvement in the RVC’s new Centre for Vaccinology and Regenerative Medicine, this can help our research and help with the 4R principle of animal welfare.
We hope that you enjoy listening to our conversation as much as we enjoyed recording it.
To find out more about Prof Werling’s work, use the following link https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/dirk-werling
To read more about the Centre for Vaccinology and Regenerative Medicine https://www.rvc.ac.uk/research/facilities-and-resources/centre-for-vaccinology-and-regenerative-medicine
Selected reading material https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34150901/ https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211913215300310?via%3Dihub https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/22/18/6889 https://journals.biologists.com/dmm/article/16/6/dmm050113/316778/A-systematic-review-of-kidney-on-a-chip-based
RVC Research Podcast 63 Organ on a chip with Professor Dirk Werling.
Published on May 3 2024
If you have any comments about this podcast, please get in touch: email podcast@rvc.ac.uk .
Duration: 01:04:30
Today we are delighted to have Dr Dan O’Neill joining Brian and myself in our remote studio.
Dan is Senior Lecturer in Companion Animal Epidemiology here at the RVC and leader of the VetCompass Programme.
Dan eloquently describes his story.
After twenty-two years in general practice wanting to find evidence for treating or informing clients on the common conditions that he saw, he took a leap to find those answers.
After leaving the keys to his practice as he left one Saturday, he started a Master’s in veterinary epidemiology the following Monday.
A PhD followed and he has stayed true to his word to find answers to those problems and with just under 100 papers published so far, he shows no signs of slowing down.
A delight to speak to and be in his company, we hope that you enjoy the podcast as much as we did recording it.
To find out more about Dan use the following link:
https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/dan-o-neill
For more about VetCompass:
https://www.rvc.ac.uk/vetcompass
Here are some links to some of Dan’s papers:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31660657/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32661183/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33325082/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31037739/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32751913/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33128852/
To Cite this podcast as: Dom Barfield.
RVC Research Podcast 62 with Dr Dan O’Neill.
Published on Apr 02 2021
If you have any comments about this podcast, please get in touch: email dbarfield@rvc.ac.uk ; tweet @dombarfield.
We would greatly appreciate your time to rate us on Apple podcast or Acast and kindly write us a review.
Duration: 00:35:36
Today we are delighted to have Professor Jim Usherwood remotely recording with Brian and myself all appropriately social distancing in our homes (or shed).
Jim is a Welcome Trust Senior Fellow and Professor of Locomotor Biomechanics here at the Structure and Motion Laboratory at the RVC.
Jim has examined the locomotion of a variety of different species, from mice to pigeons, horses to barn owls, mayflies, ibis, cockatiels and even dogs and humans.
To find out more about Jim use the following link:
https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/jim-usherwood
Here are some links to some of Jim’s papers: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32041775/ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31033243/ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28910262/ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27418386/ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24429637/ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12000801/
RVC Research Podcast 61 with Prof Jim Usherwood.
Published on Feb XX 2021   If you have any comments about this podcast, please get in touch: email dbarfield@rvc.ac.uk; tweet @dombarfield.
Duration: 01:38:00
Today we are delighted to have Professor Richard Kock remotely recording with Brian and myself all appropriately social distancing in our homes.
Richard is Professor here at the RVC in Wildlife Health and Emerging Diseases.
Apt timing perhaps to record this perhaps.
Richard is the last person known to diagnose a case of Rinderpest in the world and assisted with his team to help eradicate this virus.
Richard has been involved in many other projects globally and he speaks about a few of them with us today.
Humbling and inspiring, Richard speaks modestly about his involvement in One Health, and why we all need to be more involved.
We hope that you enjoy, stay safe.
To find out more about Richard use the following link:
https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/richard-kock
Here are some links to some of Richard’s papers:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21724764
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23798687
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25655542
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27094147
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28228144
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25005349
Duration: 00:44:40
Today we are delighted to have Dr Tierney Bennett (nee Kinnison) with Brian and myself in the studio.
Tierney is one of our Lecturers in Veterinary Education, based at the LIVE centre here at the RVC (Lifelong, Independent Veterinary Education).
Tierney has had an interesting route, a winding path as she refers to her PhD and we are delighted that she spent the time with us to share her thoughts about the different paths available in research and how you never know what you might end up doing.
We hope that you enjoy
To find out more about Tierney’s work use the following link: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/tierney-bennett-nee-kinnison Here is a link to some of Tierney’s are papers, the first link is her winding path to a PhD in veterinary education.
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25556132/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26494771
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31690641
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26446881
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26489995
Duration: 00:37:15
Today we are delighted to have Dr Amy Barstow with Brian and myself in the studio.
Amy has been finishing up at the clinical skills centre here after completing her PhD in equine biomechanics investigating shock absorption and load distribution in horses exercising on hard surfaces We discuss that and her interest in farriery which has gone on for her to be involved in the Graduate Diploma in Equine Locomotor, to engage farriers with research and address the dearth of farriery related research.
To find out more about Amy’s work use the following link https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/amy-barstow
Duration: 00:41:09
Welcome to the RVC research podcast, where we are joined by Dirk Werling, Professor of Molecular Immunology about the microbiome and why we should all be interested in it.
To find out more about Prof Werling’s work, use the following link  https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/dirk-werling   If you have any comments about this podcast, please get in touch: email dbarfield@rvc.ac.uk; tweet @dombarfield.
Duration: 00:59:16
For Episode 56 we talk to Dr Rowena Packer who is a BBSRC Research Fellow here at the RVC.
We discuss what led her interest in perusing animal welfare science, and how she came to do her PhD at the RVC and what this has led to along the way.
Her research into breed confirmation and why people might choose those breeds is on-going and fascinating.
She has now moved into looking at canine epilepsy and behavioural co-morbidities.
We hope that you enjoy listening to our conversation as much as we enjoyed recording it, inspiring, interesting and informative.
To find out more about Rowena’s work use the following link https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/rowena-packer For more information about the Big Brainy Border Collie Study please follow this link https://www.rvc.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-facilities/clinical-investigation-centre/projects/the-big-brainy-border-collie-study-investigating-brain-structure-function-and-behaviour-in-border-collies-with-and-without-idiopathic-epilepsy If you have any comments about this podcast, please get in touch: email dbarfield@rvc.ac.uk ; tweet @dombarfield.
Duration: 00:33:23
For Episode 55 we talk to Dr Troy Gibson who is a senior lecturer here at the RVC in Animal Welfare Science.
He discusses his journey from the land of the long white cloud to the RVC.
His research is in animal welfare of livestock during routine husbandry, and it is fascinating.
To find out more about Troy’s work use the following link https://www.rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/troy-gibson If you have any comments about this podcast, please get in touch: email dbarfield@rvc.ac.uk; tweet @dombarfield.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet:
The Royal Veterinary College’s (RVC) Prof Richard Meeson, Head of Small Animal Orthopaedic Surgery …
Owner thanks fire service, paramedics and veterinary staff who rescued cat Whiskey from fire and …
Do you have a sick or injured pet?
Book an appointment
Practice services
Pet care advice
RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital 4 Royal College St, London NW1 0TU
We provide all the essential vet practice services you would expect plus a whole host of specialist vet services due to us being part of the Royal Veterinary College's network of world-leading facilities.
Make a referral
Clinical services
RVC Queen Mother Hospital for Animals Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL9 7TA
We offer the largest and most comprehensive small animal veterinary referral service in Europe.
Our transdisciplinary approach ensures each patient gets the very best treatment available.
Training vets and specialists
Research
Veterinary Clinical Podcast
Search for information, news, case studies, fact files and research on small animal topics.
Clinical Connections newsletter gives you an insight into RVC's clinical services along with news and research highlights.Sign up for your personal copy via email or post

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/pathology-and-diagnostic-laboratories:
The Diagnostic Laboratories offer a comprehensive laboratory diagnostic service to the veterinary profession.
The postgraduate training programme in pathology has an international reputation and track record of success in specialist examinations.
The pathologists are active in research and development of new diagnostic tests.
+44 (0)1707 666208 diagnosticlabs@rvc.ac.uk
The pathology and diagnostic laboratories are staffed by an close-knit team of specialist anatomic and clinical pathologists, residents in training and highly experienced technicians.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/regional-veterinary-centre-south-of-england:
The RVC, Kingston Maurward College and regional veterinary practices are collaborating in the further development of a centre of excellence for livestock extension.
Originally set up by Nick Bell in 2011 and now run by Peter Plate the programme has multiple aims:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/veterinary-services/vns-investigate-podcast:
Welcome to the RVC veterinary nurses investigate podcast hosted by Sarah Batt-Williams & Lyndsay Wade.
We will explore the evidence behind the nursing practices that we use every day.
We will be discussing how you might go about asking clinical questions and answering them, interviewing vets and nurses who know how and providing a platform to share the results of clinical audits, as well as encouraging you to get involved in clinical research in your practice.
Author: Sarah Batt-Williams & Lyndsay Wade
Duration: 01:05:12
Are you as frustrated at the lack of evidence as we are?
Veterinary nurses are in a prime position …
Duration: 00:54:24
Your audit is complete, you know that your results should be used to inform practice, but how do …
Duration: 00:52:25
How do you feel admitting to someone that you are a novice?
How will you describe yourself if you …
Duration: 00:43:17
"It's about empowering all team members, getting them to work together.
I have always wanted to …
Author: Perdi Welsh & Hilary Orpet
Duration: 00:46:52
"Ask yourself a question...
How can we do this better?
You can always enthuse others about your …
Duration: 00:56:41
Amanda worked in the Equine industry for more than 20 years breaking and training horses and …
Duration: 01:07:21
In episode one of the first series of VN’s investigate we discuss all things Evidence Base with the …
Duration: 00:01:51
An idea created pre pandemic, completed in lockdown and edited during the maternity leave of both …

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/veterinary-services/podcasts:
Welcome to the RVC veterinary clinical podcast.
In these shows, Dominic Barfield, with the technical help of Brian Cox talks to a variety of different faculty/specialists/clinicians from the RVC about clinical relevant material to everyone in practice, if you are just about to start your veterinary career or you are a seasoned professional we aim to provide something for everyone.
Whether you’re listening whilst you are cooking dinner, driving home, walking the dog or even at the gym, we want to give you some practical tips and advice that you won’t necessarily find in the text books or journal articles that we hope makes a difference to your patients.
Find the show notes on https://goo.gl/ECRxGh you can follow me on twitter @dombarfield or email any suggestions/comments to dbarfield@rvc.ac.uk.
RVC , QMH , QMHA Veterinary , Dr Chris Scudder , intravenous , catheters , small , animal , practice
Duration: 00:40:03
Joining Brian and myself in our studio we are delighted to have Dr Chris Scudder join us.
Chris is …
RVC , QMH , QMHA , Vetlife , Dr Rosie Allister , community , helpline , support
Duration: 00:54:46
Joining Brian and myself in our virtual studio we are delighted to have Dr Rosie Allister join us.
…
Duration: 00:39:17
Joining Brian and myself in our virtual studio we are delighted to have Matt Ozment join us.
Matt …
QMH , QMHA , Heart murmurs , Nekesa Morey , cardiologists
Duration: 00:45:25
Joining Brian and myself in our actual studio we are delighted to have Dr Nekesa Morey with us.
QMH , QMHA , Dr Clive Elwood , coaching , veterinary , leadership
Duration: 00:54:50
Joining Brian and myself in our virtual studio we are delighted to have Dr Clive Elwood with us.
RVC , QMH , QMHA , Professor Dan Fletcher , CPR
Duration: 01:00:11
Joining Brian and myself in our virtual studio we are overwhelmed to be in the company of the …
QMH , QMHA , Anaesthesia , sustainability , Aoife Ryan , Analgesia
Duration: 00:38:18
Joining Brian and myself in our virtual studio we are delighted to have Dr Aoife Ryan, one of our …
RVC , QMH , QMHA , Dr Sarah Tayler , Dr Jodie Green , Small Animal Internal Medicine team , Feline Infectious Peritonitis , FIP
Duration: 00:39:11
Joining Brian and myself in our studio we are delighted to have Dr Sarah Tayler, one of our …
RVC , QMH , QMHA , immune , mediated , haemolytic , anaemia , Relapse , Dog , thrombocytopenia
Joining Brian and myself in our virtual studio we are joined by the fantastic Richard Sparrow, …
RVC , QMH , QMHA , Nicola Ho , Anaesthesia , Analgesia , sleep , fatigue
Duration: 00:20:26
Joining Brian and myself in our studio (three times a charm) we are delighted to speak to Nicola Ho, …

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/clinical-connections:
You can view previous issues of our Clinical Connections newsletter below, or click the link of the left to read individual articles.
Welcome to Clinical Connections, which we hope will provide a window into the amazing range of clinical services available to you from the Royal Veterinary College.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/principals-message:
QS Rankings
As you may have seen earlier this week on our social media and in some of the academic press, we have, once again, topped the QS World University Rankings by Subject which is fantastic news.
With our veterinary science 2025 result, this means that for the last 5 years straight (and 6 of the last 7) we have been ranked #1.
I am grateful to you all, staff and students, for all your contributions in making this happen.
Those of you who have heard me speak on the importance of the QS system to us will know that perhaps the most valuable of the metrics is the opinion of our peers with respect to our academic reputation – and to be ranked first amongst equals is a real honour and a privilege.
Of course, our research metrics and, increasingly, the satisfaction of those who employ our graduates are also absolutely key but above all it’s the consistent performance, year after year for which I am so grateful.
Thank you.
Colin Whitaker HonDVetMed HonFRCVS
Last week saw the death of one of RVC’s alums, Colin J Whitaker.
In his eighties, many will be unaware of Colin’s many contributions to animal health but by far the most significant was his identification of a case of BSE (Mad Cow Disease) on a farm he attended as a practitioner in the mid-1980s.
He knew he was looking at something new and his persistence saw the disease investigated, described and ultimately controlled.
One Health is a relatively new term, but there is no doubt Colin’s clinical acumen and commitment resulted in one of the greatest contributions to human health in a generation.
Colin was a proud RVC graduate – it is on legacies such as Colin’s that we have built and continue to build our reputation.
He would have been very pleased with Wednesday’s news.
US Federal Funding
I realise that many are watching the developments that are taking place in the USA very closely.
I do want to reassure those who may be concerned that, whilst changes might take place with the Department of Education, there is no sign individual support will be affected.
Of course, one never knows, but please be assured we are considering and updating mitigation strategies to ensure we are in a position to address issues should they arise.
SU Awards
We had a terrific evening in our new atrium at Hawkshead on Wednesday  for the SU awards.
Being able to recognise and celebrate the achievements of our student clubs and societies, as well as outstanding individuals, in an “Oscar” style ceremony made for a thoroughly enjoyable event in a whole new format.
The final act of the evening was the announcement of the election results and the shape of the new SU team.
Many congratulations to all who took part – nominees and winners – and a thank you for transforming our new space into a proper venue!
If you missed it this year, book early for next.
Hoping for a return to the beautiful spring weather of last week…
Have a great weekend.
Stuart

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc:
The Royal Veterinary College is the UK's largest and longest-established independent vet school and is a Member Institution of the University of London.
The RVC offers undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in veterinary medicine, veterinary nursing, and biological sciences, and CPD programmes in veterinary medicine and veterinary nursing.
As one of the world's leading specialist veterinary and biological science research institutions, the RVC brings together talented individuals; all of whom share a passion for human and animal health and welfare.
Our programmes have international appeal and attract students who go on to become practicing veterinarians, research scientists, veterinary nurses and leaders in industry and government.
The RVC owns and manages the London BioScience Innovation Centre; which was London's first centre for early stage life science companies.
This puts the RVC at the heart of biotechnology and other biomedical research in London and opens doors for research collaboration.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses:
The RVC has two campuses - one in central London and one in Hertfordshire.
Both are within easy reach of main transport links and are easy to get to from London's airports.
General enquiries/Switchboard: +44 (0)1707 666 333
Camden:
Royal Veterinary College Royal College Street London NW1 0TU
Hawkshead:
Royal Veterinary College Hawkshead Lane North Mymms Hertfordshire AL9 7TA
How to get to our campuses:
Useful information for home, EU and International students
Please look at ' Our People ' for information about staff at the RVC.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/academic-quality-regulations-procedures:
This is where to find Royal Veterinary College academic policies, procedures, and regulations, including those used for assuring the quality and enhancement of the student learning experience.
In this area Students and Staff can access all pertinent information relating to the student journey.
Collaborative programmes
Course design, review and closure
Curriculum managers and exam board members
Student engagement
If you are having difficulties viewing the above mind-map, please click here to download a PDF version.
The RVC maps its Academic Quality Assurance and Enhancement Procedures against the UK Quality Code for Higher Education and the Office for Students ongoing conditions of registration.
The College also takes into consideration the requirements of relevant Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs).
The Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) confirmed the quality and standards of provision at the Royal Veterinary College following its review visit in February 2015.
A team of QAA reviewers visited the Royal Veterinary College and judged that its academic standards, the quality of its student learning opportunities, and the quality of information about its learning opportunities all meet UK expectations.
The enhancement of its student learning opportunities is commended.
Timetabling Policy and Procedures
Internal and External Student Transfers
Studying Abroad
Student Attendance Policy 2024/25
EMS and IMR Attendance and Absence Policies 2024/25
Religion and Belief Observances in Relation to Teaching and Assessment
Student Performance and Development System (including Fitness to Study Policy and Guidance)
Student Contract
Credits
Postgraduate Research and Clinical
General Regulations for Study and Awards (replaced the General Regulations for Internal Students of the Royal Veterinary College)
Appraisal:
Code of Practice:
Examiner Nominations:
Examiner Forms:
Examination Regulations/Guidelines:
Projects
This is where you will find policies, regulations, guidance and procedural information regarding exams and assessment.
You might also be interested in the following links:
There are four types of document:
Policy: Statements about particular expectations in the design of regulations and operation of procedures
Regulatory: Formal requirements that all Courses, Examiners and Boards of Examiners must meet
Procedures: Set instructions that Examiners and Course Directors must follow
Guidance: Reference documents to enable Examiners and Course Directors to undertake their roles.
All courses are governed by the following:
Procedure, Criteria and Nomination Form for appointment of Chairs and Deputy Chairs of Boards of Examiners
Guidance for Design of Assessment in Modules
How to ensure that the load of assessment on students is equivalent between different modules etc.
Marking Schemes:
Extensions to submission dates and authorised absences:
Guidance to Students on meeting submission deadlines
Allowable reasons for granting of extensions to submission deadlines
Assessment Extension Request Form
Summative Assessment Authorised Absence Form
Guidance for Boards of Examiners concerning major project resubmission
Responsibilities and Guidance on annual activity for Course Directors or BVetMed Year Leaders
Responsibilities and Guidance on annual activity for Chairs of Boards of Examiners [under review]
Academic Director of Assessment: Role Descriptor
Academic Misconduct and Plagiarism
Exams Calendar for MSc Degrees (first and second attempts, deferrals, progression)
Who, when and how feedback should be given to taught students
Policy on Formative Assessment
Oral Examinations by Tele or Video-conferencing (not applicable to MRes or distance learning courses)
Systems Failure in Relation to Online Submission of Assessments
Outline of the RVC procedure when there is a system failure that impacts on submission of online assessments, for example via Online Coursework Management (OCM) or TurnItIn, as well as any other appropriate submission portal.
Suspension of Regulation Protocol
A workflow for suspension of regulation.
Admissions:
RVC Charter
Student Social Media policy
IT Policies and Regulations
Student Protection Plan 2024/25
Student Protection Plan 2025/26
Lecture Capture Policy
Student Fees Policy and Fees and Funding information
RVC Response to Student Death Policy and Procedure
RVC Missing Student Policy and Procedure
Safeguarding Children and Adults at Risk Policy and Procedure
Procedure for police liaison
Reasonable Adjustments for Disabled Students – Policy and Procedure
Degree Outcomes 2022-2023
Assistance Dog Policy
Appeals:
Complaints:
Academic Misconduct:
Misconduct
Fitness to Practise
Final Formal Review
Attendance monitoring policy for students on a study route visa or in receipt of a US loan

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/governance-policy-legal:
Governance provides the structure and mechanisms through which the RVC ensures that its leadership and management are fully accountable for its achievement of its charitable objects for the public benefit.
The legal status and overarching governance arrangements of the RVC are defined in its Charter and Statutes.
The RVC received its first Royal Charter from Queen Victoria on 16th April 1875.
The most recently revised Charter and Statutes were approved by the Privy Council in May 2021 and can be found here:
The 1956, 2007 and 2010 versions of the RVC Charter & Statutes can be found here:
(Copies of earlier Charter Documents can be obtained upon written request to the Secretary to Council.)
The RVC's governing body is the RVC Council and details of current Members of Council can be found on this link, together with details of any other trusteeships / directorships held by them.
The RVC’s Council ensures that its governance arrangements comply with The Higher Education Code of Governance, issued by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC), the conditions of our registration as a Higher Education Provider with the Office for Students and identified good practice.
The RVC’s Council is supported in its governance work by its sub-committees, which are as follows:
The RVC is a charitable body but is exempt from registration with and oversight by the Charity Commission under the terms of the Charities Act 2011 and therefore has no charity number.
It is subject to the legal rules applicable to charities under English Law and to the general provisions of the Charities Acts.
The RVC is treated as an exempt charity because it was created under Royal Charter and its principal statutory regulator, OfS , oversees its compliance with charity law.
The RVC is also the sole trustee of the Animal Care Trust , which is an independent charity that is fully registered with the Charity Commission.
The charitable object or purpose of the RVC is “ to advance higher education and research and publish the useful results for the public benefit with particular focus in the art and science of veterinary medicine and surgery, biological and biomedical sciences and related subjects ”.
The RVC joined the University of London as a constituent college in 1949 and is currently one of 19 member institutions within the federation of the University of London .
The RVC awards its Degrees through the University of London as well as holding Degree Awarding Powers in its own right.
Copies of the RVC’s Annual Reports which include our Public Benefit statements and full audited Financial Statements (covering at least the past 5 years) can be viewed by clicking on the following link: Annual Reports & Financial Statements .
The College’s Executive Committee (CEC) is chaired by the Principal, is the Principal’s central team, and comprises Vice Principals, The Chief Operating Officer, The Director of Finance, Heads of Academic Departments, and Directors of Professional Services.
The Academic Board is responsible to the RVC Council for the development and management of the RVC’s academic affairs.
The Academic Board delegates its responsibilities through an Academic Committee Structure that covers our undergraduate and postgraduate activities.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/our-departments/academic-support-and-development/library-and-information-services/it-services:
Delivering Library and IT/AV support functions, the Infrastructure Services Directorate (ISD) strives to be at the forefront of information provision and learning facilities - via paper, electronic or audio visual means.
Our Learning Resources Centres at Hawkshead and at Camden provide a wide range of facilities tailored to student's learning needs and continues to undergo upgrades and refurbishments to improve the user's experience.
As part of the Professional Services Department (PSD) we offer a wide range of services to students and staff.
Our primary functions relate to the operation of the IT Helpdesk, AV, Library, Applications and Project teams who provide support and development to teaching, research and business activities within the RVC.
The following services are provided across both campuses of the RVC:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/business/working-with-industry:
Innovation and knowledge transfer from The Royal Veterinary College to industry underpins our international reputation for improving the health and welfare of animals.
Major research findings, such as the identification of a new drug, design of a new medical instrument or clinical trial protocols have significant commercial value.
Even relatively straightforward developments, such as the generation of a new antibody or a disease model may be of high interest to industry.
Resources like medical images or samples of biological materials are often of value to commercial partners.
We encourage innovation and knowledge transfer by placing emphasis on sustainable working relationships between our world-class researchers and industry partners.
The RVC has an excellent track record of collaborations and licence deals with multinational companies and SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises).
The RVC also fosters innovation via the London BioScience Innovation Centre (LBIC), a business incubator which is owned and managed by the RVC.
LBIC is central London's premier incubator for life-science companies and is home to over 50 life science companies.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/business/services-and-facilities:
The RVC has over one hundred research-active staff, many of whom consult with multinationals and SMEs
High spec central London office and laboratory facilities for life science companies
A range of pre-clinical and clinical services for animal health, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and pet food companies

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/business/training-and-placements:
Fully accredited programmes delivered by RVC experts
Undergraduate students available for short or long-term projects
Training programmes and short courses for individuals working in the agri-food sector
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) offers a range of open and tailored training programmes for employees working in government agencies and across the animal health and biological science sectors.
We can also put students in touch with employers looking for someone to focus on a dedicated project.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/boltons-park-farm/staff-and-contacts:
Boltons Park is a busy place with four full-time staff keeping us going all year round, and students who we train up to milk and feed the animals at weekends.
We also help local school leavers by training them to become weekend helpers.
Most go on to become vet students and it is great to see them come back to the farm on their course as undergraduates.
Graeme began his farm career working at dairy farm with 150 cows before completing his National Diploma in Agriculture at Moulton College.
He then took some some out travelling in New Zealand where he worked milking 800 cattle.
On his return he then began working as a General Farm Worker at The Royal Veterinary College.
He then returned as Farm Manager where he manages the herd, spends a lot of time with students, keeping the paperwork up-to-date and accurate, optimising cow performance, liaising with teaching staff, organising appropriate animals for classes and maintaining their welfare.
Welfare is an important part of Graeme's role, he takes great care to minimise the amount of time our cows are waiting for students.
A happy cow is one that can eat, drink and rest and this is how we like them to spend their time.
Graeme also has a dog called Berri who sometimes visits the farm with him.
Graeme can be contacted by email: gwebster@rvc.ac.uk
For further information about the farm please email us at boltonsparkfarm@rvc.ac.uk or phone 07867 973237
Boltons Park Farm 44 Hawkshead Road Potters Bar Herts EN6 1NB

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/donate:
Click the button to donate:
Donate →

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/support-us:
For over 30 years the RVC Animal Care Trust has been dedicated to improving animal health and care through investing in hospital equipment and facilities, funding ground-breaking research into animal and human health, and supporting veterinarians, veterinary nurses and scientists of the future.
We rely on your support to make this happen.
Your support helps us care for tens of thousands of pets and animals every year by providing funds for new equipment and enhanced facilities.
It helps us discover and explore treatments for human and animal diseases, and it provides assistance to Royal Veterinary College students.
From donating to our pioneering dog and cat blood donor programme to leaving us a gift in your will, there are many ways to support us and make a difference.
Become an RVC Patron
Are you interested in becoming more involved with the RVC and hearing more about the pioneering work we undertake to improve the lives of animals?
If so, join our Patronage today!
ACT Tailwaggers
Join our new community where pets help pets!
ACT Tailwaggers support pets that need help the most by funding the development of pioneering veterinary medicine.
Enter our Spring Raffle
Enter our Spring Raffle to be in with a chance of winning our top prize of £1,000, plus other cash prizes.
Tickets cost just £1, with every purchase supporting our work to care for critically ill animals.
Leave a gift in your will
Gifts in wills play a major role in our funding.
Your gift could help support and fund special equipment and facilities to improve education, research and clinical practice.
Memory Tree
Remember your loving pets.
Dedicate a leaf on our Memory Tree as a beautiful reminder of the powerful friendships we make with our pets.
The ACT organises several events each year and we are also lucky enough to have many fabulous supporters running, walking, baking, and even skydiving for us!
Join in today!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/events:
Each year the Animal Care Trust helps the Royal Veterinary College’s hospitals treat thousands of animals in need .
Whatever your fitness level, there are so many ways you can help.
For additional information about any of the events below please contact us on 01707 666237 or email us .
We encourage our fundraisers to use JustGiving , which is a not-for-profit company so more of your money goes directly where it’s needed most.
For fundraising advice, ideas on how you can get involved, and tips on how to raise as much money as possible, you can download our Fundraising Pack.
Inside, you can also find more information on the impact your fundraising will have, a guide to keeping safe, and a sponsorship and donation form.
Paws & Shoes Challenge
Can you and your pooch walk 1,000 minutes in 4 weeks?
Sign up and you'll receive a Paws & Shoes dog tag or bandana for your pooch!
London Landmarks Half Marathon
Run for Team ACT at the London Landmarks Half Marathon.
The course takes runners right through the capital past its most famous landmarks.
London Marathon
Run for Team ACT at the TCS London Marathon and every step you take, every mile you run, will help to save the lives of sick and injured animals.
St Albans Half Marathon
Join a truly incredible race taking you along scenic countryside.
Not ready to take on the half marathon?
You can take on the 10k, 5k or 1.5 mile fun run.
Choose your own Challenge
Are you ready to push your limits, achieve something extraordinary, and make a real difference?
Take on a Charity Challenge for us, you can do all this and more!
Organise an Event
Organising your own event is a fun way to support a great cause.
From dog walks to cake sales or quiz nights to climbing mountains - take on your own challenge!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/about-us:
The Animal Care Trust is the registered charity of the Royal Veterinary College.
We aim to improve animal health and care through clinical practice, education, and pioneering research.
For more than 30 years we have been dedicated to raising funds to support the College’s wide range of activities aimed at improving animal health and care.
We fund equipment and facilities that improve treatment and care at our animal hospitals as well as improve teaching and learning of veterinary and science students.
We also invest in groundbreaking research that makes a real impact to the lives of animals across the world.
Fundraising
The RVC Animal Care Trust was founded in 1982 when senior staff at the Royal Veterinary College realised that small animal care in the UK had to change for the better.
Meet the team
Who's who at the ACT?
Meet the team and find out how we can help you to help us to help your pets!
We are here to help with questions about our work, fundraising support and more.
Accounts and policies
Details of our financial accounts and charity policies.
You can also find out how to learn more about our annual finances through the Charity Commission for England and Wales.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/what-we-do:
We are dedicated to improving animal health and care.
We do this by supporting three key areas; improving and enhancing hospital equipment and facilities, funding pioneering research into treatments for animal and human disease, and we support the education of veterinary professionals and scientists.
The Animal Care Trust supports the RVC hospitals that treat and care for over 30,000 animal patients a year by providing funds for new equipment and enhanced facilities.
Funds are also raised for other animal care projects, such as the blood transfusion programme, where dog and cat blood donations save the lives of hundreds of critically-ill animals every year.
The Animal Care Trust supports clinicians and scientists of the future, invests in the development and application of scientific research, funds pioneering work in animal and human health, and assists research projects carried out by RVC researchers and undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Find out more about the areas we support:
You can find out more about the impact of our work in our Annual Review .
Amber, one of the wonderful donors in the RVC's blood donor programme
“My precious boy Louis was obsessed with pink tennis balls.
He was 8 years old when he received life-saving surgery.
Louis was in end-stage CHF from MVD, a hereditary disease within the breed.
Louis had only one choice to survive and that was to have surgery to correct his mitral valve.
We were aware of the risk that Louis may not make the surgery but felt we were going to lose him shortly without it.” Emma Bennett, Louis' owner.
Sadly, Louis contracted a bug and very resistant infection and despite many attempts to fight it, he passed away a few weeks after his surgery.
“The care and compassion shown by the RVC was overwhelming and we were so pleased to be able to dedicate a leaf to Louis on their beautiful Memory Tree.
I am raising funds to help research into this dreadful disease and why cavaliers are so prone to it.
My boy’s final gift was to donate himself to the scheme to help other cavaliers in the future through research for MVD, SM/CM, Pancreatitis and Diabetes.”
Nadja Hale, Head of Fundraising at the RVC Animal Care Trust said: “We are so grateful to Emma and family for their incredible support for the ACT- donations in tribute to such beloved pets are so special and very much appreciated.
Louis’ legacy lives on.”
Meet Smudge, a much-loved pet who was attacked and returned home distressed, bleeding and unable to breath properly.
His owner, Fiona, remembers the experience: "It was a very distressing for my family and me.
We took him to our local vet's practice where they confirmed he had been attacked and they removed air from his chest twice and attended his wounds.
We were hopeful but by the end of the week our local vet recommended Smudge be referred as he was still unwell, and air kept entering his chest."
"The RVC hospital were simply amazing - from the moment we arrived they put us at ease, and we left that first day, confident that Smudge was in very good hands.
Smudge had air in his left chest, abscesses which required a neck drain and he was unable to eat and struggling to breathe.
We were informed of Smudge's progress every day and all the procedures he underwent and there were many of them.
The veterinary team were calm and informative and there is no doubt they saved Smudge's life performing the complex tie back procedure.
"The RVC hospital is an amazing place with fantastic veterinary staff and facilities which also provides a great learning environment for students.
For all pet owners, our animals are part of the family and we want them to have the best medical care possible.
The RVC makes this possible in training, education and research in veterinary medicine.
"Thank you to everyone for saving our Smudge and giving us this time with him."
When Alba arrived with painful lesions over her body, we feared the worst.
Alba had a mysterious and deadly illness that had been killing dogs around the country.
No known cure existed .
Our world-leading team of specialists combined their knowledge to come up with a revolutionary solution which had not been tried anywhere else.
Alba’s blood plasma was removed and replaced with healthy canine plasma – donated by our wonderful canine blood donors and processed by our dedicated Blood Donor and Transfusion team.
This pioneering new treatment used equipment available exclusively at the QMHA, thanks to the funds donated by our supporters.
Thanks to people like you, Alba became the first dog in the UK to survive New Forest Syndrome and this new treatment has gone on to save other dogs’ lives too.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/contact:
If you would like to find out more about our work, volunteer, fundraise for us or make a donation, please contact us:
UK registered charity number 281571
Read our privacy policy or learn about our financial activity in our annual review .
We post regular updates on Facebook and Instagram.
Please only contact the RVC Animal Care Trust for information about our charity.
If you are a pet owner and need advice, please contact the RVC's animal hospitals.
Contact details for the RVC's animal hospitals are below:
+44 (0) 1707 666 399
+44 (0) 1707 666 297

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/legacy:
Your love for animals and commitment to their well-being can extend beyond your lifetime.
The RVC Animal Care Trust (ACT) is the Royal Veterinary College's charity.
By leaving a legacy to the ACT in your will, you’ll play a crucial role in advancing veterinary medicine, supporting ground-breaking treatments, and nurturing future generations of animal care professionals.
Your legacy gift ensures that your passion for animals continues to make a difference long into the future.
With your support, we can push the boundaries of veterinary care and create a world where every animal receives the best possible treatment.
Here's how you can make a lasting contribution:
You may choose to give to the ACT in a general way so your donation supports the broad spectrum of our work but you may prefer to support a particular area.
If you have any questions or need assistance, our dedicated team is here to help.
Feel free to get in touch via phone on 01707 666237 or email act@rvc.ac.uk and we'll guide you through the process with care and respect.
You can download our Legacy Information Brochure and find more information about the three key pillars of our work below.
Plus, discover the power of donations by watching Marty's film.
Legacy brochure
Support world-leading veterinary hospitals
Support research into animal health
Support future veterinary professionals
Scholarships help encourage these students to apply to the RVC and donations to our Student Support Fund help current students in financial need so they can focus on their studies.
When a labrador puppy called Marty developed kidney failure and liver damage he was rushed to the RVC Small Animal Referrals Hospital in Hertfordshire.
Diagnosed with leptospirosis, a bacterial infection, his prognosis without dialysis was grave.
Marty needed an ultrasound, three rounds of dialysis and two blood transfusions to survive.
Thanks to generous donations from our supporters we funded the ultrasound and dialysis machine used in Marty's treatment.
We also support the RVC Blood Donor Service all year round.
Watch this heart-warming film to see how you can make a difference.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/contact/mailinglist:
Receive our Paws & Hooves biannual magazine straight to your doorstep.
Plus receive our monthly email newsletter Paws & Hooves...Bitesize when you sign up to email communications too.
Find out about our work in improving animal health and care at the RVC’s hospitals, discover heart-warming patient stories, the latest research, upcoming events and fundraising news.
Keep up to date with through our monthly email newsletters and our biannual Paws & Hooves magazine about our work in improving animal health and care at the RVC’s hospitals, as well as upcoming events and fundraising.
Further information about how we protect and use your personal data is available in our Privacy Policy at rvc.ac.uk/act/
We use Mailchimp as our marketing platform.
By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing.
Learn more about Mailchimp's privacy practices.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/memory-tree:
Our beautiful Memory Tree takes pride of place at the RVC Queen Mother Hospital for Animals.
This unique handmade sculpture, designed by local artist Claudia Ashley-Brown, offers a wonderful way for our supporters and hospital clients to remember their faithful friends and loving companions.
The tree is situated in a prime position in our hospital reception and is a beautiful reminder of the powerful friendships we all make with our beloved pets.
Complete with its own watchful cat and dog, the tree is adorned with 456 gold, silver and copper leaves, which can each be engraved with the name of a loved one as a lasting tribute to their memory.
All funds raised by the tree will be donated to the hospital to ensure it has the best possible equipment to treat its patients.
For a suggested minimum donation of £120 per year (or just £10 per month), each leaf will be engraved with the name of a loved one and once dedicated, will remain in place for a year.
At the end of the year, you will be given the opportunity to renew your leaf or it can be sent home to you to keep.
Thank you .
As our memory tree grows with these very special tributes it will enable our support of the RVC’s vital work to grow too.
In June 2024 we acknowledged World Pet Memorial Day by reflecting on some of the wonderful pets commemorated on our Memory Tree.
Read our news article about the stories behind the leaves .
In February 2024 we announced how our Memory Tree supporters helped fund a non-invasive cardiology ultrasound.
Read our news article about the GE Vivid IQ cardiac ultrasound .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/tailwaggers:
Tailwaggers will become a vital part of the RVC Animal Care Trust, supporting other pets and the development of pioneering veterinary medicine.
To join our community, simply complete and return the membership form inside and your pet will become an official ACT Tailwagger.
“Tucker is my eight-year-old fluff ball and now a proud Tailwagger.
I adopted Tucker in 2014, and he has had many adventures including becoming a big brother to his fluffy pal Dotty and his little human brother Wilf.
“In 2018, he suddenly became ill and was taken to our local vets.
Unfortunately, he was deteriorating and needed specialist attention.
I had no doubt that RVC would be the right place to go to get Tucker the help he needed.
“As soon as I was greeted by the Emergency and Critical Care team, I felt in safe hands.
They took Tucker away to be stabilised and explained their plan for him.
Three days later, Tucker was feeling much better and ready to come home.
"I am forever indebted to the staff that cared for him and we are keen to ‘pay back’ via the ACT Tailwaggers club to help other pets receive the incredible care that we received.”
Rowena Packer Lecturer in Companion Animal Behaviour & Welfare Science at the RVC
The RVC Animal Care Trust was founded to provide greater support in dealing with complex veterinary cases.
Our world has changed almost beyond recognition as a result of the pandemic, but one thing is for certain, together we really are stronger.
Every penny we receive from our Tailwaggers will directly support the RVC’s hospitals.
Any animal, whether canine, feline, equine, reptile or exotic, will benefit from your membership.
The RVC hospitals treat and care for over 30,000 animal patients a year.
That’s 30,000 patients who have been given a real chance at a new lease of life following a difficult diagnosis.
Imagine being a real part of that vital care?
Imagine making a difference to pets just like yours.
Your pet could be a lifesaver.
The Tailwaggers Club was founded in 1928 by Captain Horace Hobbs.
Dogs that became members received a special collar medallion engraved with the Club’s logo and the motto ‘I help my pals’.
In just over a year, the Club flourished and more than 200,000 dogs had enrolled, enabling £20,000 to be donated to help the work of the Royal Veterinary College.
The money they raised supported pioneering individuals who led the development of small animal medicine and their legacy can still be felt today.
We are delighted to be introducing our new ACT Tailwaggers community and would love you, and more importantly your pet, to be a part of this special community.
Our 21st Century Tailwagger community will continue to support the development of pioneering veterinary medicine, long into the future.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/act-news:
We were delighted to honour our 2025 Canine Blood Donor of the Year in memory of Axel, a much-loved …
When Pebble became unwell, a visit to the vet revealed that her red blood cell count had dropped …
This World Blood Donor Day, the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) is celebrating animals that …
The Spring 2025 edition of Paws & Hooves is here!
Packed with inspiring stories from across the …
The RVC Animal Care Trust (ACT) is delighted to announce the funding of Brainstem Auditory Evoked …
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) is celebrating two decades of its pioneering Blood Donor …
On World Heart Day, the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) is celebrating the introduction of advanced …
The Autumn 2024 edition of our supporter magazine has landed!
In this edition, you'll find stories …
The RVC Animal Care Trust’s dog-walking challenge, Paws & Shoes, is open for the summer.
All money …
As a proud alumna of the RVC, I am delighted to have been appointed the new Chair of the Animal …

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/visit-the-rvc:
Visit us at the RVC and learn more about our courses.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/camden:
Our London campus is in Camden, one of the most creative and stimulating areas of the city.
Famous for its markets, vibrant culture and music venues, Camden is an exciting place to experience student life.
It is also home to a beautiful canal and lock, Regent’s Park, ZSL London Zoo and the iconic Roundhouse music venue.
Our historic Camden Campus is where Veterinary Medicine (BVetMed) students spend their first two years, or the first year of the Accelerated BVetMed and Veterinary Gateway, before Gateway students join the BVetMed students for another two years at the Camden Campus.
Biological Sciences pathway students study at Camden throughout their courses, except Animal Biology, Behaviour, Welfare and Ethics students who spend their final year at Hawkshead.
The Hobday Building is the centre of the Camden Campus.
In 2021 it benefitted from its most extensive redevelopment in over 80 years.
Approximately £14 million was invested to provide students with new classrooms, extra social learning spaces, an extended dining facility, larger common rooms, and much-improved social areas.
It also holds lecture theatres, a learning resource centre, a teaching lab and dissection room.
Modern world-class laboratories including molecular biology labs with cell culture, as well as state-of-the-art cell and tissue imaging facilities.
At the heart of the Campus is the Lightwell, a bright and open café where you can have coffee next to a full size elephant skeleton!
Above the Lightwell is the Pod.
This social learning space hangs above the café and provides students with a quiet, comfortable area to work in, either on your own or with classmates.
The Haxby is our Students’ Union run bar at the Camden Campus.
The bar offers freshers’ events, sports teams’ socials and quizzes, all with the aim of bringing the people of the RVC together.
With a pool table, TVs, sofas and bar snacks, the aim is to provide our hard-working students and staff with somewhere to relax between lectures or unwind in the evenings.
The refurbished Camden gym offers weight and cardiovascular machines, as well as a dance and aerobics studio where we run Zumba, Yoga and Pilates classes.
The gym is free to use and is open seven days a week.
London is ranked as the number one student city in the world (QS Best Student Cities, 2024).
Camden is one of the most creative and stimulating areas of the city.
Famous for its markets, music venues like the iconic Roundhouse and café culture, Camden is a great place to experience student life.
It is home of the famous Camden Market and Camden Lock and canal, and is close to London Zoo and Regent’s Park.
Getting in and around London is made simple by the range of public transport links available.
The Camden Campus is only a short walk from London King’s Cross St Pancras, the transport hub of London, with overground, underground and bus links to reach just about anywhere in London or the UK, as well as the Eurostar, allowing quick travel to mainland Europe.
Anatomy Museum – a treasure trove of veterinary history and animal anatomy can be found on campus in our fascinating museum.
First opinion animal hospital – offering a range of services for pets, including an exotics service.
The RVC’s own first-opinion practice and animal hospital is right next door to Hobday and is the starting point for hands-on clinical experience for veterinary medicine and nursing students.
Veterinary medicine students participate in all aspects of client and patient care, under the supervision of experienced veterinary surgeons and Registered Veterinary Nurses.
The practice is a leading centre for veterinary nurse training, with students supporting the nursing team in the care of animals and client services under the supervision of veterinary surgeons and experienced registered nurses.
London Bioscience and Innovation Centre (LBIC) – this is wholly owned by the RVC and is home to over 40 biotechnology and life sciences companies, from small start-ups to established global organisations, who regularly provide placements for our Biological Sciences pathway students.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/hawkshead:
The Hawkshead Campus is where veterinary medicine students are based for the final three years of their course, alongside veterinary nursing students and specialists-in-training.
The Hawkshead Campus is equipped with facilities tailored to deliver both the theoretical and practical elements of your course.
Let some of our students show you around...
🗺️ PDF of Hawkshead Map here
The Hawkshead Campus in Hertfordshire houses facilities to deliver both the theoretical and practical elements of our courses.
It is where our veterinary medicine students are based for their final three years, alongside student veterinary nurses, final year Animal Biology, Behaviour, Welfare and Ethics students and specialists-in-training.
The Hawkshead Campus has recently completed the largest and most ambitious single capital development the RVC has ever undertaken.
Opened in 2023, our new Student Learning Centre provides new teaching laboratories, a library and a main lecture theatre, alongside informal social learning spaces.
The campus also houses other modern lecture theatres and laboratories.
The redevelopment has significantly increased our research facilities, including the launch of the RVC Centre for Vaccinology and Regenerative Medicine.
This is the latest specialist centre on campus, which already houses the Centre for Emerging and Endemic Diseases, Structure and Motion Laboratories, Clinical Skills Centre, and Clinical Investigations Centre.
Our 230-hectare self-contained Hawkshead Campus sits in the picturesque countryside of Hertfordshire.
Our award-winning student village provides a home from home.
Hawkshead Campus facilities include a restaurant, café, sports pitches and our Sports and Wellbeing Centre.
The Buttery is our Students’ Union bar at Hawkshead, offering live sport and music.
We have planted a series of mini meadows with dozens of native trees to enhance biodiversity and support to native birds and pollinators.
There is an abundance of communal space, where you can socialise and relax, as well as social learning spaces outside of the classrooms, labs and lecture theatres.
A new, double-height atrium, expanded café and garden room exhibition space provides social areas across the ground floor of the new Student Learning Centre.
The Sports and Wellbeing Centre (SAWC) at the Hawkshead Campus boasts impressive facilities for RVC staff and students.
Our modern gym hosts a whole range of equipment including a nine-foot climbing wall, weight and cardiovascular machines, as well as a full range of dumbbells, kettle balls, power bags and much more.
Our dance and aerobics studio hosts most of our classes, including Zumba, Yoga and Pilates.
The sports hall can host a multitude of sports, including badminton, indoor football, hockey, cricket, basketball, volleyball and many more.
The SAWC is free to use and is open seven days a week.
Hertfordshire has some fantastic cycle and footpaths, allowing you to travel easily to neighbouring towns and villages, or to explore the countryside.
Getting in and around Potters Bar and the surrounding area is made simple by a number of public transport routes serving nearby bus and train stations.
Potters Bar train station offers frequent trains to London King’s Cross.
The RVC runs a free regular shuttle bus from Potters Bar train and bus station to the Hawkshead Campus.
Small animal referrals hospital – operates from the Queen Mother Hospital for Animals which is one of the largest and most advanced veterinary hospitals in the world, treating over 19,000 cases each year.
Veterinary medicine and nursing students spend much of their clinical experience working here – meeting and treating patients and learning to carry out procedures – all supervised by expert senior vets and vet nurses.
Equine Hospital – our equine practice has a long and rich history in equine health management, combining world-leading research with the largest number of RCVS Equine Specialists of any UK veterinary teaching hospital, 24-hour emergency and referral services, and a first opinion equine-only ambulatory practice.
Boltons Park Farm – our farm animal teaching facility is located a short distance away from the main campus.
The farm has 200 hectares of mainly grazing land, as well as 20 hectares of ancient mixed woodland.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bachelor-of-veterinary-medicine:
Qualification: BVetMed (Hons)
​UCAS Code: D100
​Institution Code: RVET R84
​Study Mode: Five years full-time
UK Tuition Fees: 2025 fees: £9,535
EU and International Tuition Fees: £47,960
Course Location: Camden , Hawkshead
Application Deadline: 15 Oct 2025
Course Outline
The Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine (BVetMed) programme offers world-leading scientific and clinical training in veterinary medicine.
This exciting course builds on our extensive veterinary history, and takes a fresh approach in bringing together technological change, clinical and scientific progress, and stimulating teaching and learning methods.
You will gain a thorough understanding of the science underpinning veterinary practice and research, and develop fundamental problem solving, communication and team-working skills.
In our busy RVC hospitals and collaborative practices, you will gain the broadest and best possible practical experience.
This comprehensive programme will help you acquire an understanding of the basic biological principles of normal body function and disease, and the ability to distinguish the pathological from the normal, to prevent disease and safely manage the processes of animal production.
You will also explore opportunities to further veterinary knowledge through research, and develop the expertise to diagnose and treat disease and alleviate suffering along with the professional skills you need to work and communicate effectively in practice.
In the first two years, you will primarily be based at the Camden Campus studying basic veterinary sciences, acquiring introductory skills in handling and examining horses, farm animals and companion animals as well as developing your communication and team working skills.
In your third, fourth and fifth year you will mainly be based at our Hawkshead Campus where you will acquire knowledge and practical skills in clinical science necessary for you to participate fully in clinical practice at the RVC, collaborative practices, and in private veterinary practice.
The Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine course is delivered across both of our campuses.
You will spend the first two years primarily based at our Camden Campus , before being based at the Hawkshead Campus in the latter years.
I love that within the spiral curriculum you revisit strands regularly so you are constantly adding to your knowledge the further you get along the course.
I also enjoy the number of opportunities which are open to you as an RVC student.
Being a student here teaches you so much more than how to be a vet and lets you explore and get involved with whatever makes you happy.
There are so many sports and societies to join which really is what gives RVC the community feel that it has.
I joined the RVC Boat Club when I joined the university (having never even thought about rowing before) and it really has been what has made my first 3 years here so great.
I knew upon arrival that RVC was the place for me.
I was honoured to have had the chance to attend the Pre-Vet Summer School and would recommend every student interested in veterinary medicine to attend.
This past year I worked the Pre-Vet Summer School as a student ambassador and had the unique opportunity to experience the program from a different perspective.
I am proud of what I have accomplished at the RVC and I owe it to the very first day I arrived on campus for the Pre-Vet Summer School program.
It was brilliant to have achieved the award for runner-up Farm Vet of the Future, as it is great to have acknowledgement in the veterinary community that my ideas on education are valued, and that vets in practice are interested in my work with Dr Nicola Blackie on thermal imaging – something that I hope to continue after graduating.
After graduation, I am going into a purely farm job on the Suffolk/Norfolk border, at Three Rivers and Chapelfield Farm Vets, and the work that I had put in previously in order to be able to apply for the award, should help in this job.
One of the tasks I will be doing at the practice, is talking to schools and helping to educate the children, and hopefully, engaging the children about animal welfare.
As well as this I should have access to the farms needed to continue my work with Dr Nicola Blackie.
The award is very nice recognition of my passion for farm vetting and I hope it stands me in good stead for the rest of my career..
If you’re interested in studying this course, and would like to stay informed, sign up to our RVC For Me mailing list to receive relevant information about upcoming events, students stories and life at the Royal Veterinary College.
Our BVetMed programme is a strand-based course that follows a ‘spiral’ curriculum.
This means that key concepts are presented repeatedly to you as you progress through the course, at deepening levels of complexity and in different contexts.
The progression of knowledge and understanding from preclinical basic concepts to clinical knowledge and reasoning skills is achieved by revisits to each strand at different stages of the course.
For example, when learning about the kidney, you will learn basic anatomy and physiology during the preclinical phase of the course and then learn about the common diseases of the kidney and how they are diagnosed and treated during the clinical phase.
This is then enriched by working with animal patients presented with kidney disease in our first opinion and referral hospitals, or other practices, during clinical rotations and extra-mural rotations.
In Year 4 and 5 of the course, you will undertake intramural clinical rotations.
These rotations will focus on:
The curriculum is currently undergoing review; these pages will be updated as more information becomes available.
Information provided is for a general indication based on current course.
Year 1 Introduction to the whole animal and to systems strands: Principles of Veterinary Practice Principles of Science Locomotor Developmental Biology Neurology, Ophthalmology and Special Senses Cardiovascular and Respiratory System Reproduction Urinary Alimentary Animal Husbandry and Animal Handling Scholarship and Evidence Based Medicine Integrated and applied Anatomy Endocrine Animal Husbandry Extramural Studies Year 2 Principles of Veterinary Practice Principles of Science Locomotor Neurology, Ophthalmology and Special Senses Cardiovascular and Respiratory System Lymphoreticular and Haemopoietic Urinary Scholarship and Evidence Based Medicine Integrated and applied Anatomy Endocrine Skin Population Medicine and Veterinary Public Health Animal Husbandry Extramural Studies Year 3 Principles of Veterinary Practice Principles of Science Locomotor Neurology, Ophthalmology and Special Senses Cardiovascular Respiratory Reproduction Urinary Alimentary Skin Scholarship and Evidence Based Medicine Lymphoreticular and Haemopoietic Endocrine Production Medicine Veterinary Public Health Essentials Clinical extra mural studies Year 4 The majority of teaching during the fourth and fifth years of the programme is in the form of clinical rotations, where you will work in small groups in a variety of clinical environments.
Rotation Preparation Intramural clinical Rotations Principles of Veterinary Practice Population Medicine and Veterinary Public Health Research Project Clinical Extramural Studies Year 5 The majority of teaching during the fourth and fifth years of the programme is in the form of clinical rotations, where you will work in small groups in a variety of clinical environments.
Intramural Clinical Rotations Clinical Extra Mural Studies Animal Husbandry Extra-Mural Studies (AHEMS) AHEMS is undertaken during the first two years (pre-clinical years) of the programme.
AHEMS placements are designed to help you consolidate your learning about animal husbandry, develop animal handling skills, and learn about animal industries.
You must complete 10 weeks of AHEMS before entry to Year 3 of the course.
Clinical Extra-Mural Studies (ClinEMS) ClinEMS is the time dedicated to gaining practical clinical experience in the latter years of your veterinary medicine programme to support your learning and clinical experience gained in the College’s animal hospitals.
ClinEMS will allow you to gain experience in a variety of different clinical and other veterinary-related organisations, where you will consolidate your learning about diagnosis and management of animal diseases, enhance your practical clinical skills, and acquire greater understanding of how veterinary organisations operate.
You will undertake ClinEMS placements in your third, fourth and fifth years of the BVetMed programme, totalling 20 weeks of placements.
The majority of teaching during the fourth and fifth years of the programme is in the form of clinical rotations, where you will work in small groups in a variety of clinical environments.
AHEMS is undertaken during the first two years (pre-clinical years) of the programme.
ClinEMS is the time dedicated to gaining practical clinical experience in the latter years of your veterinary medicine programme to support your learning and clinical experience gained in the College’s animal hospitals.
This course is delivered through whole-class lectures, small group tutorials, group work in directed learning classes, computer-assisted learning, demonstrations, practical work in laboratory and dissection classes, practical classes utilising live animals, directed and self-directed reading, directed and self-directed practice in the Clinical Skills Centre, self-evaluation, animal husbandry placements, placements in veterinary practices, and production of project reports.
Outside of your timetabled lectures and practical sessions, you are expected to undertake self-directed learning.
Typically, this involves reading journal articles and books, working on individual and group projects, undertaking research in the library, preparing coursework assignments and presentations, and preparing for examinations.
The RVC has three outstanding academic and clinical departments.
Lecturers in each department are not only world-class researchers and clinicians who are passionate about their field; they are highly qualified teaching professionals.
All RVC students are assured teaching of the highest standard.
In the final year of your course, your assessment will comprise:
You should fulfill our requirements in each of the following areas to be considered for interview:
The standard academic requirements for entry to the BVetMed programme are outlined below.
A Levels AAA in three A Level subjects: Biology at grade A Chemistry at grade A A third subject of your choice* We also require a 'pass' in the science practical for each subject, where taking the English curriculum.
Contextual Offers Offers of ABB (with an A in Biology or Chemistry) will be made to those meeting certain Widening Participation (WP) criteria .
No separate application is required but care leavers should submit proof from the relevant local authority once they have applied.
For further information on our policy on reformed UK qualifications, please click here .
*The third A Level subject should not overlap with Biology or Chemistry, and cannot be General Studies.
We support the opportunity to take additional subjects at AS Level, but do not prescribe or prefer any particular subject choices or combinations.
A* grades are not required and predictions for A* will not give advantage at selection or offer stage over applicants predicted A.
There is no third subject which is preferred by selectors or gives any special advantage in the selection process.
Science and non-science subjects are treated equally for the third subject.
Restrictions apply to re-sits to all qualifications - see ’FAQ' tab .
See additional GCSE requirements below.
Welsh, Scottish and Irish Applicants Welsh Baccalaureate Applicants who achieve the Advanced Skills Baccalaureate Wales qualification with grade A will be accepted with two A Levels: Biology at grade A Chemistry at grade A Please also see notes under the 'A Levels' tab above.
Scottish Highers/Advanced Highers Advanced Highers at grades AA in: Biology Chemistry In addition to 5 Highers at AAAAB grades including: Biology Chemistry and at least National 5* grade B in: English Mathematics * If you have bypassed one or more of these subjects at National 5, you will need this subject/grade at Highers level.
Contextual Offers Offers of AB in Biology and Chemistry will be made to those meeting certain Widening Participation (WP) criteria .
Irish Leaving Certificate H1,H1,H2,H2,H2,H2 including Biology and Chemistry.
H1 required in one of these sciences.
Minimum O3 is required in: English Mathematics International Baccalaureate 666 at Higher Level including: Biology Chemistry A third subject of your choice Our standard offer is based on specific subject-grade requirements, rather than a total points score.
There is no third subject which is preferred or gives any special advantage in the selection process.
Contextual Offers Offers of 655 (with a 6 in Biology or Chemistry) will be made to those meeting certain Widening Participation (WP) criteria .
Where candidates have not taken GCSEs or an equivalent qualification prior to the IB Diploma, they will need a minimum of grade 5 in: EITHER MYP Mathematics (standard or extended) OR SL Mathematics Analysis and approaches OR SL Mathematics Applications and interpretation.
SL English A (or grade 6 in English B) Diplomas and Further Certificates (including Access and L3 Extended Diploma) All qualifications below are considered on top of existing Level 2 requirements (e.g.
GCSEs, National 5s, O Levels, etc).
If you are not sure you have equivalent qualifications, please contact us at admissions@rvc.ac.uk Access to HE Diploma (England and Wales) It is expected that applicants undertaking the Access to HE Diploma will normally be returning to education after a period of at least three years absence.
If have extenuating circumstances which mean you do not fulfil this please contact the Admissions team on admissions@rvc.ac.uk before you submit your application.
Diplomas must be Science-based and include a minimum of 15 Level 3 credits in Biology at Distinction and 15 Level 3 credits in Chemistry at Distinction.
You must achieve at least Merit in all other graded Level 3 credits.
See the Access to Higher Education website to search for possible courses in your area.
SWAP Access to Medical Studies(Scotland) You must complete the “SWAP Access to Medical Studies” course and achieve a Pass overall.
You must achieve AAA in the three graded components of the course – Biology, Chemistry and Mathematics with at least 80% in each subject.
Birkbeck College's CertHE in Life Sciences for Subjects Allied to Medicine Distinctions must be achieved in the Chemistry and Biology modules.
See the Birkbeck website for further details.
Level 3 Extended Diploma Applied Generals Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma in Applied Science / Applied Science (Biomedical Science) : D*D*D* overall with Distinctions in: Principles and Applications of Science I (90) Principles and Applications of Science II (120) Science Investigation Skills or Contemporary Issues in Science (120) Two of: Applications of Organic Chemistry; Applications of Inorganic Chemistry; Practical Chemical Analysis (120) In addition: For Applied Science: at least three units from Group A must be taken with Distinctions achieved.
For Applied Science (Biomedical Science): at least four units from Group A must be taken with Distinctions achieved in three of them.
Tech Levels City & Guilds Advanced Technical Extended Diploma in Animal Management (Science*) : D*D*D* overall with Distinctions in: Biological Systems of Animals Synoptic Assessment (1) Synoptic Assessment (2) Theory Exam (2) Undertake Investigative Project in the Land-Based Industries *Please ensure that you are enrolled on the correct pathway - you must be on the Science pathway and taking the mandatory Science pathway modules listed in this document: https://www.cityandguilds.com/-/media/productdocuments/land_based_services/animal_management/0172/0172_level_3/animal_management/centre-documents/0172-33-l3-adv-tech-ext-dip-in-animal-management-qhb-1080-v4,-d-,11-september-2024-pdf.ashx Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma in Animal Management (1080)** : D*D*D* overall with Distinctions in: Animal Biology (120) Animal Breeding and Genetics (120) Animal Welfare and Ethics (120) Practical Skills in Animal Science (60) Animal Metabolism (60) Advanced Animal Nutrition (60) Investigative Research Project (60) **Previously, only the Science pathway was accepted.
In light of this no longer being available, please note the unit requirements carefully as not all colleges deliver what were previously mandatory units.
Level 3 Extended Diploma (unreformed syllabus) Pearson Applied Science (2010 syllabus) QCF D*D*D* overall required, including Distinctions in all the following units: Genetics and Genetic Engineering Physiology of Human Body Systems AND/OR Physiology of Human Regulation and Reproduction Biochemistry and Biochemical Techniques AND/OR Chemistry for Biology Technicians Biomedical Science Techniques AND/OR Chemical Laboratory Techniques Using Statistics in Science AND/OR Informatics in Science Pearson Animal Management (2010 syllabus) QCF D*D*D* overall required, including Distinctions in all the following units: Understand the Principles of Animal Nutrition Understand the Principles and Carry Out the Practice of Biochemistry and Microbiology Understand the Principles of Inheritance and Genetic Manipulation Fundamentals of Science Chemistry for Biology Technicians OR Understand the Principles of Chemistry for Biological and Medical Science Cambridge Pre-U Distinctions (D3 or higher) in three Principal Subjects: Biology Chemistry A third subject of your choice There is no third subject which is preferred by selectors or gives any special advantage in the selection process.
Applications are welcome from those who meet our science requirements and are taking a combination of A Levels and the Cambridge Pre-U.
Offers will be made on an individual basis, depending on the combinations.
T-Levels We have considered the programme specifications and assessment materials for the T-level subjects currently available and these do not provide suitable preparation the degrees that we offer at the RVC.
We are therefore currently unable to accept T-levels as entry qualifications to any of our courses.
As further T Level subjects are introduced the specifications will be reviewed and, if they are suitable for entry to the RVC, they will be added to the lists of acceptable qualifications.
GCSE (only in addition to other qualifications) At least five GCSEs at grade 7 (A) including: 7-7 in Combined Science/AA in Science (Double Award) or Biology and Chemistry or Science and Additional Science.
with at least a grade 6 (B) in: English Language Mathematics For further information on our policy on reformed UK qualifications, please click here .
Welsh applicants Please note, GCSE Mathematics-Numeracy will not be accepted instead of GCSE Mathematics but is welcomed alongside it, and as part of the Welsh Baccalaureate.
International and EU Applicants For advice on the acceptability of your qualifications please send details, referring to each of the required subjects (Biology, Chemistry, Maths, and English) to admissions@rvc.ac.uk For more information useful to international applicants, please go to the International students section .
North America College students attending a US or Canadian university must apply through the VMCAS application system and will be considered for both the four-year Graduate Accelerated BVetMed and the five-year BVetMed programme.
For more information see here .
Please note that different deadlines apply to the VMCAS system.
High school students may only apply to the five-year BVetMed programme through UCAS , with the entry requirements as follows: USA High school graduation: We will accept any of the following combinations: High School Diploma: Graduate High School with at least three full-year Advanced Placement examinations at grade 555 including Biology and Chemistry.
Please note you must be taking official AP exams, not just the classes.
ACT Test: We will accept either of the following combinations: ACT score of 28 in English and Maths plus t hree full-year Advanced Placement examinations at grade 555 including Biology and Chemistry.
ACT score of 28 in English and Maths plus three IB Higher Level certificates at Grade 6 including Biology and Chemistry.
SAT Test: SAT score of 630 in each of 'Evidence-Based Reading and Writing' and 'Math', plus t hree full-year Advanced Placement examinations at grade 555 including Biology and Chemistry.
SAT score of 630 in each of 'Evidence-Based Reading and Writing' and 'Math', plus three IB Higher Level certificates at Grade 6 including Biology and Chemistry.
The RVC's institution code for College Board to be used when sending your results is 7970 .
The RVC's College Code to be used when sending your ACT results is 8180 Canada As there are regional differences, please contact Admissions for province-specific requirements.
British Columbia, Alberta and Ontario are shown below as a guide: British Columbia Pass the British Columbia Certificate of Graduation with five academic grade 12 courses including Biology/Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry.
A 85% average is required across grade 12 courses, with 85% in Biology/Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry.
A minimum of 73 % is required in grade 11 or grade 12 English and Mathematics (e.g.
Pre-Calculus, Calculus, Functions, Advanced Functions).
Grade 11 Biology or Life Sciences will normally be expected.
Alberta Pass the Alberta High School Diploma with five academic grade 12 courses including Biology/Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry.
A minimum of 73% is required in grade 11 or grade 12 English and Mathematics (e.g.
Pre-Calculus, Calculus, Functions, Advanced Functions).
Ontario Pass the Ontario Secondary School Diploma with six grade 12 'U' courses including Biology and Chemistry.
A 85% average is required across grade 12 courses, with 85% in Biology and Chemistry.
A minimum of 73 % is required in grade 11 or grade 12 English and Mathematics ( e.g.
Québec Pass the Diplôme d’Etudes Collègiales with five academic grade 12 courses including Biology/Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry.
An 85% average is required across grade 12 courses, with 85% in Biology/Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry.
Caribbean Obtain Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) unit 2 grades of I, I, I (one, one, one) in Biology, Chemistry and a third subject, in addition to Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate (CSEC) grade II (two) in English A, Mathematics, Biology and Chemistry.
Europe Where an English grade is not specified, applicants will need to meet one of our accepted English Language qualifications .
Where not specified, applicants must also demonstrate they have studied Mathematics to the equivalent standard of GCSE grade B.
European Baccalaureate Pass the Baccalaureate with 85% overall, and 8.5 in elective Biology and Chemistry.
7.5 required in Maths.
7 in L1 English is an accepted English language requirement.
Austria Achieve the Reifeprüfung/Matura from Realgymnasium with Mit ausgezeichnetem Erfolg bestanden and grade 1 in Biology, Chemistry and English.
Grade 3 required in Maths.
Belgium Achieve the Diploma van secundair onderwijs/Certificat d'enseignement secondaire supérieur (CESS) with 80% (8/10; 16/20) overall.
85% (9/10; 17/20) required in Biology and Chemistry.
65% (7/10; 13/20) required in Maths.
Bosnia and Herzegovina Obtain the Diploma o završenoj srednjoj školi/Diploma o položenom maturskom ispitu having achieved 554 in the Matura exams with 5 in Biology and Chemistry, and at least grade 3 in Maths compulsory subject.
Czech Republic Achieve the Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce having passed the state m aturita exams with 1,1,2,2 including 1 ( Výborný ) in Biology and Chemistry.
Competency should also be demonstrated in Maths (if not included in the m aturita ).
Denmark Pass the Bevis for Studentereksamen with grade 10 in four Level A subjects including Biology and Chemistry.
Maths is required at minimum Level B grade 7 or Level A grade 7.
English required at Level B grade 10 or Level A grade 7.
Finland Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto/Studentexamen with Eximia cum laude approbatur in three subjects including Biology and Chemistry, and at least Magna cum laude approbatur in a fourth subject.
A minimum of C um laude approbatur is required in Maths if not part of the four subjects above.
France Pass the Baccalauréat général with 14 overall.
14 required in Earth & Life Sciences and Physics-Chemistry, both of which need to be one's enseignements de spécialité and taken through to terminale.
Mathematics needs to be sat in the penultimate year, and grade 12 achieved.
[OIB/BFI Anglais: if 14 is achieved in English, no further English language qualification is required.] Germany Pass the Abitur with 1.4 overall.
13 required in Biology and Chemistry, both as Kurse mit erhöhtem Anforderungsniveau/Leistungskurse .
Applicants should demonstrate successful completion of grade 10 having achieved at least 3 in Maths.
Iceland Pass the Stúdentspróf (natural science specialisation) with 9 in Biology, Chemistry and English.
7 is required in Maths.
Italy Pass the Diploma di Esame di Stato from a Liceo Scientifico with 95 overall and individual grades of 10 in Science and 8 in Maths.
Luxembourg Pass the Diplôme de fin d'études secondaires (Section C ) with mention tres bien overall and 52 in Biology and Chemistry.
40 required in Maths.
Macedonia Pass the Matura with an average of 4.5 and at least 4.9 in Biology and Chemistry.
Strong competency should be shown in Maths and Natural Science.
Malta Pass the University of Malta Matriculation Certificate with AA at Advanced Level in Biology and Chemistry and AAA in three Intermediate Level subjects.
If not included as Intermediate subjects, grade 3 must be achieved in Maths as part of the Secondary Education Certificate.
Alternatively, IGCSE/O Levels in Maths grade B is accepted.
English may be accepted if taken as a first language; please contact admissions.
Monaco Pass the Baccalauréat (S stream required) with 14 overall and 14 in both Year 12 (première) and Year 13 (terminale) Biology and Physics-Chemistry.
12 in Maths required.
[OIB Anglais: English 14] Montenegro Achieve the Diploma o položenom maturskom ispitu having achieved the following in the Matura: 5 in Biology and Chemistry, 4 in Maths.
Netherlands Pass the VWO ( Natuur profiel ) with 8 overall with 8 in Biology and Chemistry.
7 is required in Maths and 9 is required in English.
North Macedonia Pass the Matura with 5 in Biology, Chemistry and the elective exam.
Competency must also be demonstrated in Maths.
Norway Pass the Vitnemål for Videregående Opplæring/Skole (Natural sciences and mathematics stream) 5 overall.
Biology and Chemistry must be taken as Optional Programme Subjects in both course 1 and 2 (e.g.
Chemistry 1 and Chemistry 2) and grade 5 must be achieved in both.
English at grade 4 and Maths at grade 3 are also required.
Poland Achieve the Świadectwo Dojrzałości (Matura) with 85% in Advanced Level Biology and Chemistry and one further subject, 75% in Standard Maths.
Portugal Pass the Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação with 18 overall and 18 in Year 12 Biology and Year 12 Physics-Chemistry.
You must also achieve 15 in Y12 Maths or 16 in Y11 Maths.
Serbia Achieve the Diploma o položenom završnom ispitu having achieved the following in the Matura: 5 in Biology and Chemistry, 4 in Maths.
Slovakia Pass the Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške with 1,1,2,2 including 1 in Biology and Chemistry.
Competency should be demonstrated in Gymnazium-level Maths.
Slovenia Pass the Maturitetno spričevalo (Matura) with 25 overall, and 5 in Biology and Chemistry.
4 required in Maths.
Spain Pass the Bachillerato with 8.5 overall with 9 in Biology/Biology-Geology and Chemistry/Physics-Chemistry.
You must also achieve 7 in Maths and Physics if Physics-Chemistry not taken.
Sweden Pass the Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskolan with 2500 credits taken and an overall score of 19.0.
Grade A must be achieved in Biology and Chemistry and C in Maths and English.
Switzerland Obtain the Federal Maturity Certificate or Federally Recognised Cantonal Maturity Certificate with grade 5 in 'Biology and Chemistry' ( Schwerpunktfach/Option Spécifique ), and 4 in Maths.
Asia Armenia Pass the Araratian Baccalaureate with AAA in three Extended subjects, including Biology and Chemistry .
Maths must be passed at grade 8 or above at Certificate of Secondary General Education level.
Hong Kong Pass the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades 555 in Biology, Chemistry and one other elective subject, plus grade 4 in Maths and grade 5 in English core subjects.
We will consider Maths as a third elective subject provided both the compulsory and the extended modules are taken with grades 5* (compulsory section) and 5 (extended section).
Malaysia Obtain the Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades AAA in three Principal level passes including Biology and Chemistry.
In addition, grade 4/B is required in the SPM in Maths and 5/A in Biology and Chemistry.
Grade B in English (first language) at either O Level (1119), or as part of the STPM is accepted as meeting our English Language requirements OR Obtain the Matrikulasi (Matriculation Certificate) with a cGPA of 3.67 and grades A- or GPA of 3.67 in Biology and Chemistry.
Grade B in English (first language) at either O Level (1119), or as part of the STPM is accepted as meeting our English Language requirements Singapore Obtain Singapore GCE A Level grades AAA at H2 level including grade A in Biology and Chemistry.* OR Singapore Integrated Programme / GCE A levels: AAA at H2 level including grade A in Biology and Chemistry* OR Pass the Polytechnic Diploma in Veterinary Bioscience, Veterinary Technology, Biomedical Science or Biotechnology with an overall GPA of 3.0 and with grade B in all Biology and Chemistry modules.
OR Pass the NUS High School Diploma: NUS High School Diploma with a CAP score of 4.0.
Biology and Chemistry must be studied during the Specialization Years and achieve a CAP score of 4.0 in these subjects.
English and Maths with a CAP score of 3.5 is required.
*Offers may be subject to IELTS and GCSE equivalency in relevant subjects.
Africa & Middle East Tanzania Pass the ACSEE (natural sciences stream) with AAB+ in one of the following principal subject combinations: PCB, CBG, CBA or CBN.
Division I must be achieved in the CSEE including B in Basic Mathematics; English Language; Biology; and Chemistry.
Uganda Pass the UACE with AAA at principal level including Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the UCE with Division One, including Distinctions in Biology and Chemistry, and at least grade 4 (Credit) in English Language and Maths.
Oceania All references to English below are to first-language English only.
If you are studying English as a second language, please see our accepted English Language qualifications .
Australia An ATAR score of 90 is required .
Please see below for state-specific subject/grade requirements: New South Wales Pass the Higher School Certificate (HSC) with the following 2-unit Category-A Board Developed Courses: Biology, Chemistry and one other at band 5; English and Maths must be achieved to at least band 3 .
Queensland Pass the QCE with Year 12 Biology and Chemistry at grade A.
Year 11 English and Maths at grade B.
South Australia Pass the SACE with the following at Stage 2: 20 credits of Biology and Chemistry at grade A.
To at least Stage 1: 20 credits of English and Maths at grade B.
Victoria Pass the VCE with the following: 3/4 Biology and Chemistry at grade A (average), English and Maths at grade C+ (average).
Western Australia Pass the WACE with the following: Year 12 Biology and Chemistry at grade A.
New Zealand Obtain the University Entrance Certificate with National Certificate in Educational Achievement Level 3 with Excellence overall including in Biology and Chemistry.
Minimum of NCEA Level 2 Merit grades required in English and Maths.
Some countries' education systems are not equivalent to A Levels in the UK.
The programme(s) below are designed to give you that equivalent level of study so you can apply for our programmes: University of London Foundation programmes for International Students (UK-based) UCL University Preparatory Certificate for Science & Engineering (UPCSE) for International Students You must take Biology and Chemistry as Core Units and achieve 70% in both subjects, and 70% overall for the Certificate.
View website for more information on the programme.
These requirements assume that you have met the standard entry requirements for UPCSE: if you have entered that course with special circumstances or through a different route, please see advice for International and EU applicants, above.
Is your country's qualification missing?
It might be because it's not equivalent to GCE A Levels.
For advice on the eligibility of other qualifications, please contact Admissions at admissions@rvc.ac.uk .
Please note, we typically do not accept Foundation years unless they appear above.
Email: admissions@rvc.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 20 7468 5147 Graduate Applicants Applications will not be considered from students currently on a degree programme unless they are in their final year.
Graduates holding related degrees If you have a Bachelor's (Hons) degree in a relevant biological sciences discipline, equivalent to a 2:2 , or a Bachelor's without honours at 2:1 or above (e.g.
3-year from Australia, South Africa), you can be considered for the standard BVetMed programme (D100).
Applicants will need to be prepared to provide secondary school level transcripts/certificates as these may be used in conjunction with their degree to assess an applicant's viability.
If you have a Bachelor's (Hons) degree in a relevant biological sciences discipline, equivalent to a 2:1, you should apply directly to our Graduate Accelerated BVetMed (D102) programme.
You are welcome to apply to the standard BVetMed ( D100) instead/as well but must be prepared to fund, and study on, the 5-year programme; no transfer to D102 is available post-application.
If you are currently studying for a Masters degree we will only consider your application for deferred entry, as receipt of the Masters results and proof of the completion of the degree occurs too late to enrol on a new course in the same calendar year as the Masters degree is completed.
Graduates holding non-related degrees Applicants with a degree from a non-related discipline should apply to the standard BVetMed (D100), and will need to meet the standard academic entry requirements stated above (in addition to work experience).
Graduate finance Graduate applicants eligible for a loan from Student Finance England (SFE) should be aware that financial support is different for applicants taking BVetMed as a second degree.
Guidance can be found here .
We recommend contacting SFE directly with any further queries.
Transferring into BVetMed It is not possible to transfer to the BVetMed course from a degree programme partly completed at another university, nor can we use partial qualifications towards entry.
Internationally-qualified veterinarians International applicants already holding a Veterinary Medicine degree who are seeking to practice in the UK are not eligible to apply for this course and should refer to the registration department of the RCVS .
AAA in three A Level subjects:
We also require a 'pass' in the science practical for each subject, where taking the English curriculum.
Contextual Offers
Offers of ABB (with an A in Biology or Chemistry) will be made to those meeting certain Widening Participation (WP) criteria .
Applicants who achieve the Advanced Skills Baccalaureate Wales qualification with grade A will be accepted with two A Levels:
Please also see notes under the 'A Levels' tab above.
Advanced Highers at grades AA in:
In addition to 5 Highers at AAAAB grades including:
and at least National 5* grade B in:
* If you have bypassed one or more of these subjects at National 5, you will need this subject/grade at Highers level.
Offers of AB in Biology and Chemistry will be made to those meeting certain Widening Participation (WP) criteria .
H1,H1,H2,H2,H2,H2 including Biology and Chemistry.
Minimum O3 is required in:
666 at Higher Level including:
Our standard offer is based on specific subject-grade requirements, rather than a total points score.
Offers of 655 (with a 6 in Biology or Chemistry) will be made to those meeting certain Widening Participation (WP) criteria .
Where candidates have not taken GCSEs or an equivalent qualification prior to the IB Diploma, they will need a minimum of grade 5 in:
All qualifications below are considered on top of existing Level 2 requirements (e.g.
If you are not sure you have equivalent qualifications, please contact us at admissions@rvc.ac.uk
It is expected that applicants undertaking the Access to HE Diploma will normally be returning to education after a period of at least three years absence.
You must complete the “SWAP Access to Medical Studies” course and achieve a Pass overall.
Distinctions must be achieved in the Chemistry and Biology modules.
Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma in Applied Science / Applied Science (Biomedical Science) : D*D*D* overall with Distinctions in:
In addition:
For Applied Science: at least three units from Group A must be taken with Distinctions achieved.
City & Guilds Advanced Technical Extended Diploma in Animal Management (Science*) : D*D*D* overall with Distinctions in:
*Please ensure that you are enrolled on the correct pathway - you must be on the Science pathway and taking the mandatory Science pathway modules listed in this document: https://www.cityandguilds.com/-/media/productdocuments/land_based_services/animal_management/0172/0172_level_3/animal_management/centre-documents/0172-33-l3-adv-tech-ext-dip-in-animal-management-qhb-1080-v4,-d-,11-september-2024-pdf.ashx
Pearson BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma in Animal Management (1080)** : D*D*D* overall with Distinctions in:
**Previously, only the Science pathway was accepted.
Pearson Applied Science (2010 syllabus) QCF
D*D*D* overall required, including Distinctions in all the following units:
Pearson Animal Management (2010 syllabus) QCF
Distinctions (D3 or higher) in three Principal Subjects:
We have considered the programme specifications and assessment materials for the T-level subjects currently available and these do not provide suitable preparation the degrees that we offer at the RVC.
At least five GCSEs at grade 7 (A) including:
with at least a grade 6 (B) in:
Welsh applicants
Please note, GCSE Mathematics-Numeracy will not be accepted instead of GCSE Mathematics but is welcomed alongside it, and as part of the Welsh Baccalaureate.
For advice on the acceptability of your qualifications please send details, referring to each of the required subjects (Biology, Chemistry, Maths, and English) to admissions@rvc.ac.uk
For more information useful to international applicants, please go to the International students section .
College students attending a US or Canadian university must apply through the VMCAS application system and will be considered for both the four-year Graduate Accelerated BVetMed and the five-year BVetMed programme.
High school students may only apply to the five-year BVetMed programme through UCAS , with the entry requirements as follows:
High school graduation:
We will accept any of the following combinations:
High School Diploma:
ACT Test:
We will accept either of the following combinations:
SAT Test:
The RVC's College Code to be used when sending your ACT results is 8180
As there are regional differences, please contact Admissions for province-specific requirements.
British Columbia, Alberta and Ontario are shown below as a guide:
Pass the British Columbia Certificate of Graduation with five academic grade 12 courses including Biology/Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry.
Pass the Alberta High School Diploma with five academic grade 12 courses including Biology/Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry.
Pass the Ontario Secondary School Diploma with six grade 12 'U' courses including Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the Diplôme d’Etudes Collègiales with five academic grade 12 courses including Biology/Anatomy & Physiology and Chemistry.
Obtain Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) unit 2 grades of I, I, I (one, one, one) in Biology, Chemistry and a third subject, in addition to Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate (CSEC) grade II (two) in English A, Mathematics, Biology and Chemistry.
Where an English grade is not specified, applicants will need to meet one of our accepted English Language qualifications .
Pass the Baccalaureate with 85% overall, and 8.5 in elective Biology and Chemistry.
Achieve the Reifeprüfung/Matura from Realgymnasium with Mit ausgezeichnetem Erfolg bestanden and grade 1 in Biology, Chemistry and English.
Achieve the Diploma van secundair onderwijs/Certificat d'enseignement secondaire supérieur (CESS) with 80% (8/10; 16/20) overall.
Obtain the Diploma o završenoj srednjoj školi/Diploma o položenom maturskom ispitu having achieved 554 in the Matura exams with 5 in Biology and Chemistry, and at least grade 3 in Maths compulsory subject.
Achieve the Vysvědčení o maturitní zkoušce having passed the state m aturita exams with 1,1,2,2 including 1 ( Výborný ) in Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the Bevis for Studentereksamen with grade 10 in four Level A subjects including Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the Ylioppilastutkinto/Studentexamen with Eximia cum laude approbatur in three subjects including Biology and Chemistry, and at least Magna cum laude approbatur in a fourth subject.
Pass the Baccalauréat général with 14 overall.
[OIB/BFI Anglais: if 14 is achieved in English, no further English language qualification is required.]
Pass the Abitur with 1.4 overall.
Pass the Stúdentspróf (natural science specialisation) with 9 in Biology, Chemistry and English.
Pass the Diploma di Esame di Stato from a Liceo Scientifico with 95 overall and individual grades of 10 in Science and 8 in Maths.
Pass the Diplôme de fin d'études secondaires (Section C ) with mention tres bien overall and 52 in Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the Matura with an average of 4.5 and at least 4.9 in Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the University of Malta Matriculation Certificate with AA at Advanced Level in Biology and Chemistry and AAA in three Intermediate Level subjects.
Pass the Baccalauréat (S stream required) with 14 overall and 14 in both Year 12 (première) and Year 13 (terminale) Biology and Physics-Chemistry.
[OIB Anglais: English 14]
Achieve the Diploma o položenom maturskom ispitu having achieved the following in the Matura: 5 in Biology and Chemistry, 4 in Maths.
Pass the VWO ( Natuur profiel ) with 8 overall with 8 in Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the Matura with 5 in Biology, Chemistry and the elective exam.
Pass the Vitnemål for Videregående Opplæring/Skole (Natural sciences and mathematics stream) 5 overall.
Achieve the Świadectwo Dojrzałości (Matura) with 85% in Advanced Level Biology and Chemistry and one further subject, 75% in Standard Maths.
Pass the Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação with 18 overall and 18 in Year 12 Biology and Year 12 Physics-Chemistry.
Achieve the Diploma o položenom završnom ispitu having achieved the following in the Matura: 5 in Biology and Chemistry, 4 in Maths.
Pass the Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške with 1,1,2,2 including 1 in Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the Maturitetno spričevalo (Matura) with 25 overall, and 5 in Biology and Chemistry.
Pass the Bachillerato with 8.5 overall with 9 in Biology/Biology-Geology and Chemistry/Physics-Chemistry.
Pass the Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskolan with 2500 credits taken and an overall score of 19.0.
Obtain the Federal Maturity Certificate or Federally Recognised Cantonal Maturity Certificate with grade 5 in 'Biology and Chemistry' ( Schwerpunktfach/Option Spécifique ), and 4 in Maths.
Pass the Araratian Baccalaureate with AAA in three Extended subjects, including Biology and Chemistry .
Pass the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) with grades 555 in Biology, Chemistry and one other elective subject, plus grade 4 in Maths and grade 5 in English core subjects.
Obtain the Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) with grades AAA in three Principal level passes including Biology and Chemistry.
Grade B in English (first language) at either O Level (1119), or as part of the STPM is accepted as meeting our English Language requirements
OR
Obtain the Matrikulasi (Matriculation Certificate) with a cGPA of 3.67 and grades A- or GPA of 3.67 in Biology and Chemistry.
Obtain Singapore GCE A Level grades AAA at H2 level including grade A in Biology and Chemistry.*
Singapore Integrated Programme / GCE A levels: AAA at H2 level including grade A in Biology and Chemistry*
Pass the Polytechnic Diploma in Veterinary Bioscience, Veterinary Technology, Biomedical Science or Biotechnology with an overall GPA of 3.0 and with grade B in all Biology and Chemistry modules.
Pass the NUS High School Diploma: NUS High School Diploma with a CAP score of 4.0.
Pass the ACSEE (natural sciences stream) with AAB+ in one of the following principal subject combinations: PCB, CBG, CBA or CBN.
Pass the UACE with AAA at principal level including Biology and Chemistry.
All references to English below are to first-language English only.
An ATAR score of 90 is required .
Please see below for state-specific subject/grade requirements:
Pass the Higher School Certificate (HSC) with the following 2-unit Category-A Board Developed Courses: Biology, Chemistry and one other at band 5; English and Maths must be achieved to at least band 3 .
Pass the QCE with Year 12 Biology and Chemistry at grade A.
Pass the SACE with the following at Stage 2: 20 credits of Biology and Chemistry at grade A.
Pass the VCE with the following: 3/4 Biology and Chemistry at grade A (average), English and Maths at grade C+ (average).
Pass the WACE with the following: Year 12 Biology and Chemistry at grade A.
Obtain the University Entrance Certificate with National Certificate in Educational Achievement Level 3 with Excellence overall including in Biology and Chemistry.
You must take Biology and Chemistry as Core Units and achieve 70% in both subjects, and 70% overall for the Certificate.
Email: admissions@rvc.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 20 7468 5147
Applications will not be considered from students currently on a degree programme unless they are in their final year.
If you have a Bachelor's (Hons) degree in a relevant biological sciences discipline, equivalent to a 2:2 , or a Bachelor's without honours at 2:1 or above (e.g.
Applicants with a degree from a non-related discipline should apply to the standard BVetMed (D100), and will need to meet the standard academic entry requirements stated above (in addition to work experience).
Graduate applicants eligible for a loan from Student Finance England (SFE) should be aware that financial support is different for applicants taking BVetMed as a second degree.
It is not possible to transfer to the BVetMed course from a degree programme partly completed at another university, nor can we use partial qualifications towards entry.
International applicants already holding a Veterinary Medicine degree who are seeking to practice in the UK are not eligible to apply for this course and should refer to the registration department of the RCVS .
The above 140 hours must be obtained within the 18-month period directly preceding the application deadline.
Earlier experience is welcome but will not count towards the 140 hour requirement.
We encourage you to think creatively about these environments and are interested to hear about any experiences that have helped to give you a sense of the veterinary role in the wider world.
Examples of suitable non-clinical environments might include, but are not limited to: kennels, cattery, animal shelter, rural or city farm, stables, pet shop, lambing, intensive livestock, abattoir, animal research laboratory, wildlife park, zoo, etc.
You do not have to have gained experience in all these areas.
NB: references will need to be available ahead of interview ( see example ); we strongly advise obtaining as you go.
The RVC is offering a programme for those from underrepresented backgrounds who have not been able to fulfil our work experience requirements.
You can find information about how to apply for this here:
https://www.rvc.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/bachelor-of-veterinary-medicine#tab-work-experience-support-programme
Work experience: Applicant Supplementary Form
All applicants applying through UCAS must complete the Applicant Supplementary Form.
The form will be available in our application portal and applicants will be given access to this, and notified of the need to complete the form, via email on receipt of their application.
The form must be submitted independently of, and in addition to, the UCAS application and within five days of your application being received by the RVC.
The RVC will not contact applicants reminding them to submit the form before the deadline given.
The RVC uses email as the primary method for contacting applicants about their application.
Emails may be sent from either admissions@rvc.ac.uk or myapplication@rvc.ac.uk and applicants are strongly encouraged to take the necessary steps to ensure emails from these addresses do not end up in spam or junk inboxes, as the RVC cannot accept responsibility for any applications that are unsuccessful as a result of missed information or deadlines.
If you wish to make us aware of any mitigating circumstances related to your application please see our guidance on mitigating circumstances here: w ww.rvc.ac.uk/mitigatingcircumstances
All applicants to this course must attend an interview if invited and cannot receive an offer without attending an interview.
Our interviews are held in person.
If invited, it is often not possible to rearrange an interview for a different date, so applicants must ensure they are available for interview before applying and inform us by email of any specific days within this time period when they are unavailable.
Interviews will take place in the following locations on the dates listed below:
North America:
Charlotte, North Carolina
Wednesday 12th November 2025
Thursday 13th November 2025
Friday 14th November 2025
Saturday 15th November 2025
Fort Worth, Texas
Monday 17th November 2025
Tuesday 18th November 2025
Los Angeles, California
Friday 21st November 2025
Saturday 22nd November 2025
Sunday 23rd November 2025
United Kingdom:
RVC Camden Campus, London
Thursday 4th December 2025
Monday 8th December 2025
Wednesday 10th December 2025
Wednesday 11th December 2025
Monday 15th December 2025
Tuesday 16th December 2025
Wednesday 17th December 2025
Thursday 18th December 2025
Monday 22nd December 2025
Asia:
Singapore
Sunday 4th January 2026
Hong Kong
Saturday 10th January 2026
Sunday 11th January 2026
All applicants invited to interview will need to provide their passport (in some cases another valid form of ID will be acceptable), original degree certificate (if already completed) and reference letters (see example) to cover the minimum work experience requirements as stated above.
Please note that if you apply to more than one of our Veterinary Medicine courses (excluding the Bachelor of Veterinary Science) and your application progresses to the interview stage, you will be invited to attend one interview only which will be used in our assessment of each of your applications.
All applicants must have an acceptable English Language qualification, many of which are listed under 'Academic qualifications ' above .
Please see our English Language Requirements page for a list of qualifications we accept as alternatives.
We have put together a document with advice on our process of selecting Veterinary Medicine students, from initial screening of applications through to making offers post-interview.
This can be downloaded here .
Please note, applications for year one entry from those who have already commenced a Veterinary degree elsewhere will only be considered in the event of significant mitigating circumstances.
Additionally, if your most recent qualification is over 5-years old, due to the academic intensity of the course, we may require you to complete a more up to date qualification.
Some exceptions apply to those who have since been working in a relevant scientific field.
Please contact the Admissions team: admissions@rvc.ac.uk if you have any queries.
You will be entitled to practice as a veterinarian as soon as you have earned your BVetMed degree and registered as a Member of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS).
Our graduates go on to enjoy a wide range of careers positions in veterinary medicine, including:
They also go on to work for a variety of different employers, for example:
Students from every year of the BVetMed course and from all around the world talk about what they have learned and what they have loved about doing this course at the RVC.
Below are some common queries about entry requirements and application.
This section will be added to over time but if you have any queries, we would encourage you to contact us at admissions@rvc.ac.uk if your question is not answered here or on the Entry Requirements tab.
Normally applicants need to have achieved our minimum entry requirements at both Level 2 (e.g.
GCSE) and Level 3 (e.g.
A Level) in order to progress any further in the application process.
It does not matter if you achieve these minimum grades by re-sitting modules within the qualification.
We do accept applications from those narrowly missing the published entry requirements.
For further information on this, including how it will impact the assessment of your application, please refer to this document .
The RVC admissions policy is to accept re-taken grades or modules at GCSE, A Level or equivalent without penalty.
However, if you do re-sit any qualifications you will be expected to meet our grade requirements on second sitting (for example, AAA at A Level), and we also specify that you must have achieved minimum grades on your first sitting (BBC at A Level, with B in Biology).
Applicants re-sitting other qualifications, or those taking new qualifications following an attempt in an alternative qualification, should contact the Admissions Office at admissions@rvc.ac.uk for information about minimum grades required at first sitting.
We welcome mature applicants at the RVC and have many on our programme.
To be classified as mature student you would need to be 21 years of age on the 1st September in the year you enrol.
We cannot apply the mature student criteria to applicants applying for deferred entry, unless they would be classed as a mature student in the year their application is submitted.
Our Level 3 requirements are the same but we understand you may have taken your GCSEs some time ago.
Therefore, our requirements for mature students are a minimum of grade C in the following four subjects: Mathematics, English Language and either: Science and Additional Science or Biology and Chemistry or Double Science.
If you are resitting, or are newly taking any GCSEs, the grade requirements will be as advertised in the GCSE section.
Applicants will normally be expected to have completed relevant qualifications for entry within the five years prior to the start of the course, unless they have been working in a relevant field, to ensure that their knowledge and study skills are sufficiently relevant and current t o enable success on the course .
If your application is successful following interview, before taking up your place at the RVC you will be required to complete and clear an Occupational Health assessment.
Prior to submitting an application, we would like to draw your attention to the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeon's (RCVS) Fitness to Practice guidance and ask that you familiarise yourself with part two of the document and also their Day One Competences .
If you have any concerns about your fitness to practice or anything within the two documents, then please contact us.
You may, but in view of the large number and high quality of new candidates coming forward each year, we are normally unable to consider more than one repeat application.
See our full accreditation information for the Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine course →
The RVC is offering this programme to give people from underrepresented backgrounds, as identified in our Access and Participation Plan , who have not been able to fulfil our work experience requirements, the opportunity to gain the necessary experience to join our BVetMed degree.
Those successful in joining the programme will be exempt from meeting our work experience requirements when applying to the RVC's BVetMed or Accelerated BVetMed , as the programme's completion will be considered fulfilling these requirements.
The programme is only open to those who will be applying to the RVC via UCAS in October 2025.
If you plan to apply in future years, please revisit this page closer to the time to find out if the scheme is running for that year.
Successful applicants will also be guaranteed an interview for the BVetMed/Accelerated BVetMed.
The programme has been crafted based on our years of experience working with applicants and students, drawing on the expertise of our veterinary and animal handling experts to provide you with a high-quality experience that will be advantageous for both your interviews and during your studies.
Students who join the programme will spend their time in the RVC’s state-of-the-art clinical facilities and at our working farm, where you will gain experience in the handling and husbandry for a range of species, an opportunity to see practice and an insight into the veterinary profession.
You will also receive online and in-person support sessions to help you reflect on your experience and prepare for your interviews and future studies.
Initially, you must commit to joining us for one of the weeks detailed below.
You will be offered further placement days if you later receive an offer to study on the RVC’s BVetMed course and you will need to commit to the number of additional days detailed as a condition of your offer.
The dates for the 2025 programme are as follows:
Anyone applying to the scheme must be able to commit to at least one set of the above dates in full.
Start and finish times will vary but you should expect this to be between 7:30am and 6pm each day.
The nature of the programme means you cannot mix and match dates.
Anyone who fails to attend the full programme will not be permitted to continue and their RVC application will be made unsuccessful.
Please note the work experience is unpaid, and we will not be able to provide any funds to cover travel or accommodation costs to join this programme .
Students will need to be able to cover any costs associated with travelling to the RVC in Hertfordshire and attending the programme.
Lunch will be provided each day, as will transportation between RVC sites.
The nearest train station is Potters Bar and a regular shuttle service runs to and from campus.
Note:
The programme will involve farm work and therefore you should expect to be outdoors, regardless of the weather conditions.
The RVC will provide necessary protective clothing and equipment, but students are expected to come dressed in appropriate attire to ensure that they can move around easily and are warm and comfortable.
Eligibility
To apply to join the programme you must meet the criteria below:
You must also meet one of the following criteria:
If the programme is oversubscribed, we will give priority to those who meet all or most of the following criteria: ·
IMD Quintile score : If your home address is in an area with an Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) quintile score of 1.
You can check this using one of the following links, depending on which country you live in:
How do I apply?
You can apply via the following application form: Work Experience Support Programme.
What is the deadline for completing my application to the Work Experience Support Programme?
The deadline to complete the application is Friday 19th September 2025
When will I know if my application has been successful?
We aim to let the successf ul applicants know by Wednesday 1st October
I cannot make the dates listed; can I apply anyway?
Unfortunately , due to the nature of the programme we can only offer it for the dates listed and can only take people who can attend on all the days in the weeks listed and for the additional days offered subsequent to that .
Can I specify which animals I work with?
We are unable to accommodate specific requests to work with specific animals or what type of practi c e you see.
I live too far away to attend; will you be offering anything closer to where I live?
We do not have any plans to at the moment , although we may look to widen the scheme in future years, if it is successful.
What does a guaranteed interview mean?
You will automatically be invited to interview for the Accelerated/BVetMed if you are chosen to participate in this programme.
Will I get a guaranteed offer of a place?
No .
Your interview performance will be considered alongside all other applicants, and this will be used to determine who receives an offer.
I haven’t submitted my UCAS application yet, can I still apply?
You can apply for the programme before you have submitted your UCAS application, but you must submit you r UCAS application by the 15 October 2025 and apply to the BVetMed or Accelerated BVetMed programme at the RVC for you to be eligible to join the course.
I have over 140 hours of work experience but would like to do work experience at the RVC , can I do this programme?
No.
This programme is aimed at supporting those who be unable to gain the necessary experience to join the RVC and therefore we are not able to accept those who meet our requirements in full.
I don’t meet the eligibility criteria, but I have mitigating circumstances for why I haven’t been able to gain the required work experience hours, can I apply?
We are unable to consider applications from people who do not meet the eligibility criteria.
If you have mitigating circumstances you may wish to read our mitigating circumstances policy
I want to apply to the Gateway course at the RVC, can I apply to this programme?
The Gateway course does not require work experience and therefore you are not eligible for this programme.
Details on how to apply will be published here shortly.
The tuition fees for students commencing the course in 2025/26 are as follows:
Home Tuition Fees including Island Fees (Channel Islands & Isle of Man)
£47,960
The UK Government has confirmed that EU/EEA and Swiss national students who have started an eligible course in the 2020/21 academic year or earlier academic years remain eligible to pay the “home” rate of tuition fees and claim any financial support for which they are currently eligible for the duration of that course.
Tuition fee amounts are subject to increase each academic year, please be aware of this when making your calculations and planning how much money you will require.
The following course-related costs are included in the fees:
Annual membership of College gym (both campuses)
The following course-related costs are not included in the fees:
Accommodation and living costs are not included in the fees.
Our Housing Advice pages provide further information on College and private housing.
Download our Prospectus
Download our Admissions Policy and Procedures
86% of our recent Veterinary Medicine students found work (or went on to further study) within six months of graduation

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/veterinary-gateway/contextual-schools:
This data is only valid for those applying to the RVC in the 2024 Admissions cycle whose GCSEs/National 5s have been taken in 2022 and who are sitting their Level 3 qualification in 2024.
Applicants who have sat their qualifications outside of this time should contact Admissions.
The data is updated annually and therefore may be subject to change in future years.
A 'Yes' in either the Level 2 or Level 3 column indicates that the school concerned is considered as an RVC Contextual School for that level only (e.g.
only where an applicant has taken qualifications at that level and at that institution).
A 'No' in either column indicates the school concerned is not considered an RVC Contextual School for that level.
'Please contact Admissions' means there is currently insufficient data available to determine whether the school can be considered as an RVC Contextual School.
Prospective applicants should contact Admissions prior to applying to the programme in order to see if a conclusion can be reached.
If the school has has not explicitly been determined as contextual by the calculator or Admissions, applicants should not use this criterion towards their application.
You can search for your school by full or partial school name.
No matching schools
School Name
Postcode
Level 2 (GCSE)
Level 3 (A Level)

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/access-and-participation:
In this section you will find a document entitled “Access and Participation Plan”.
The Plan describes the work that the College does to encourage people to apply to study here.
It also describes the fees that are paid and the financial support that we provide to students to help them while attending the RVC.
The Plan is particularly aimed at people from low paid groups; ethnic minorities; carers and students who come from areas that might mot send students to university.
For the first time the Plan includes information on how the RVC will work in partnership with schools to improve the attainment of school students in Years 7-9 and support students through their years of study.
View the Access and Participation Plan from 2025-26 to 2028-29 onwards
View the Access and Participation Plan Summary of 2025-26 to 2028-29
Link to all our fees: Tuition Fees for Home and International - 2025/26

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/visit-the-rvc/afternoon-anatomy:
Date : Wednesday 29th October 2025 (Further dates for 25/26 to be announced) Time : 10:20 – 16:00 Location : Camden Campus (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) Age Group : 14-18 years Capacity : 32 pupils Eligibility* : To participate in this activity you m ust attend a non-selective state-funded (non-fee paying) school or college in the UK and priority will be given to those who meet a number of other Widening Participation criteria .
Cost: Free Travel Support: If you are in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) check out our FSM Bursary to potentially reimburse your travel to us.
Apply to the October 29th 2025 Afternoon Anatomy session here→
This activity, for Year 10-12 pupils with an aspiration to study Biological Sciences , Veterinary Medicine or Veterinary Nursing at university, provides the opportunity to learn comparative physiology in the animal world at the RVC’s Camden Campus, London .
A welcoming introductory talk will be followed by: a Directed Learning session based around a disease outbreak modelled after content from the Biological Sciences course; an interactive quiz using different real animal specimens within the impressive Anatomy Museum; the opportunity to explore physiology and learn stethoscope skills in context within a live animal experience with our calves.
This is typically conducted by the RVC’s Anatomy Team and Head of Anatomy Mr Andrew Crook MBE.
Important: Animal welfare is paramount at RVC, thus if our calves or any of our activities are not available an alternative activity is provided.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/visit-the-rvc/animal-aspirations-day:
Date : TBA Time: TBA Location: Camden Campus ( Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) Age Group: 11-15 years Capacity: Flexible Eligibility: Be in Year 7-10 and come from an ethnic minority background Cost : Free
Sign up for RVC For Me for updates on this event →
Do you have an interest or love for animals?
Are you in Years 7-10 and from an ethnic minority background?
Join our Animal Aspirations Day !
You'll get the chance to learn about careers working with animals, meet others with the same interests, and interact with some of our real live animals too!
Animal Aspirations are a group of students who aim to encourage and inspire the next generation into animal-related professions and we would love to have you join us!
In order to apply for the Animal Aspirations Day, you must be from an ethnic minority background, as young people from these backgrounds are currently underrepresented at the RVC.
You are also more likely to be accepted onto the programme if you meet multiple other criteria, such as being eligible for Free School Meals or coming from an area with low participation rates in higher education.
Watch this video to find out more about what the day could look like!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/visit-the-rvc/open-house-campus-tours:
Date : 16th August 2025 Time : 10:00 - 16:30 Location : Camden Campus, London (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) & Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire ( Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA, United Kingdom) Age Group : All prospective students are welcome Capacity : Unlimited Eligibility : All prospective students are welcome Cost: Free Travel Support: If you are in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) check out our FSM Bursary to potentially reimburse your travel to us.
The Open House is an opportunity for prospective students, parents/guardians and advisors to learn about the RVC, the undergraduate courses on offer and the application process through a Welcome Presentation and student-led tour of the historic Camden Campus, London and/or rural Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire .
RVC support staff will also be on-hand at both campuses to answer and questions.
Book to Attend: Saturday 27th September 2025 →
The tour of the Camden Campus, London , home to the RVC since 1791, will showcase the outstanding teaching facilities, laboratories, Anatomy Museum and student wellbeing spaces.
This campus is home to all of the BSc and MSci Biological Sciences Pathways (except the final year of the Animal Biology, Behaviour, Welfare and Ethics programme ), the Veterinary Gateway programme , Years 1 and 2 of the Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine (BVetMed) programme and Year 1 of the Graduate Accelerated BVetMed .
The tour of the Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire , which stretches over 575 acres, will explore the brand-new Student Learning Centre, hospital and clinical teaching facilities, laboratories, sports centre, select on-site accommodation and student wellbeing spaces.
This campus is home to all Veterinary Nursing Pathways , the final year of the Animal Biology, Behaviour, Welfare and Ethics programme and the final three years of all Veterinary Medicine (BVetMed & BVSc ) Pathways.
Campus Location(s) of Undergraduate Degrees:
If you plan to visit both campuses you are responsible for organising transportation, typically this would take around 1 hour.
Travel via train (Kings Cross Station to Potters Bar Station and vice-versa) is highly recommended and as such we suggest selecting slots with at least a 1-1.5 hour gap due to the commute between campuses.
If you have any questions or would like any more information, please email openday@rvc.ac.uk or telephone 020 7468 1257.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/visit-the-rvc/school-trip-to-the-rvc:
Date: Dates for  2026 to be announced Time: 10:15 -12:45 Location: Camden Campus (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) Age Group: 13-15 Capacity: 20 students per school Eligibility*: You must be a non-selective state school Cost: Free
Email us for information →
This specially designed activity is ideal for Year 9–10 pupils who are beginning to explore future pathways in Biological Sciences , Veterinary Medicine , or Veterinary Nursing .
Hosted at the Royal Veterinary College’s Camden Campus, London , the day offers a valuable insight into the world of animal health, science, and higher education.
The experience begins with a warm welcome and an introductory talk from RVC staff, helping students understand what studying at a leading veterinary institution involves.
This is followed by a guided tour of the campus, giving pupils a real sense of university life and the facilities available to students at the RVC.
The next stage of the visit is the hands-on medical and physiological activity circus, where students rotate through a series of interactive stations.
These practical, engaging sessions are designed to give pupils a deeper understanding of animal physiology and veterinary practices in a university setting.
This trip is an ideal enrichment opportunity for students, it will provide meaningful context to classroom learning, helps to raise aspirations and build confidence, especially for those considering careers in science, veterinary medicine, or healthcare.
.
Date: Dates for Spring 2026 to be announced Time: 10:00am – 3:00pm Location: Camden Campus ( Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) Age Group: 15-17 Capacity: 20 students per school Eligibility*: You must be a non-selective state school Cost: Free
This specially designed activity is ideal for Year 11–12 pupils who are aiming to study pathways in Biological Sciences , Veterinary Medicine , or Veterinary Nursing .
Hosted at the Royal Veterinary College’s Camden Campus, London , the experience begins with a warm welcome and an introductory talk from RVC staff, helping students understand what studying at a leading veterinary institution involves.
They will then complete a laboratory session  with hands-on microscope activities that develop students’ microscopy skills, helping them gain confidence in using different magnifications and preparing slides — key competencies assessed in practical exams.
This is followed by a guided rat dissection, which offers a valuable opportunity to explore the internal anatomy of a mammal, reinforcing their understanding of organ systems and how they are organised within the body.
Together, these activities provide an engaging and curriculum-aligned experience that supports both theoretical knowledge and practical skills development

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/visit-the-rvc/taster-courses:
The Taster Courses are on-campus opportunities for students in Year 12 to experience a day at the RVC.
These taster courses are facilitated by the University of London.
University of London Taster Courses are an exclusive opportunity for Year 12 students to sample what studying at the RVC can be like.
Students have the opportunity to sample a range of university teaching; course specific lectures, small group teaching, practical hands-on teaching, tour the Campus, get a feel for day-to-day life from Student Ambassadors and receive advice on the application process; all of which provides an immersive experience to help students decide whether this is a degree that they’d like to study at university.
The RVC currently offers two Taster Courses:
Date : Date for Spring 2026 to be announced Time : 10:00 – 15:30 Location : Hawkshead Campus (Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA, United Kingdom) Age Group : 16+ Capacity : 30 Eligibility : Anyone can apply Cost: Free Travel Support: If you are in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) check out our FSM Bursary to potentially reimburse your travel to us.
This one-day introduction to Veterinary Nursing takes place at the RVC’s 575 acre Hawkshead Campus , Hertfordshire and offers aspiring veterinary nurses in Year 12 with the opportunity to experience what it’s like to study veterinary nursing at the Royal Veterinary College.
Current Veterinary Nursing students will guide and facilitate Taster Course students throughout the day; providing the unique opportunity where guests can immerse themselves to learn about the student experience.
Amongst other things, the day will provide insightful lectures and practical teaching delivered by RVC experts, a tour of the Hawkshead Campus including our Queen Mother Hospital for Animals (Europe’s largest referral veterinary hospital), as well as advice and guidance on the application process.
In order to apply for this programme, you must be on-track to meet the course-specific entry requirements .
Applications must go through the University of London .
Spring 2026 Dates To Be Announced Soon→
Date : Dates for Spring 2026 to be announced Time : 10:00 – 15:30 Location : Camden Campus (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) Age Group : 16+ Capacity : 30 Eligibility : Anyone can apply Cost: Free Travel Support: If you are in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) check out our FSM Bursary to potentially reimburse your travel to us.
This one-day introduction to Biological Sciences takes place at the RVC’s Camden Campus, London and is designed to provide Year 12 students with the opportunity to experience life as a Biological Sciences student at the Royal Veterinary College.
Current Biological Sciences students will guide and facilitate Taster Course students throughout the day; providing the unique opportunity where guests can immerse themselves to learn about the student experience.
Amongst other things, the day will provide insightful lectures and practical teaching in one of our Laboratories, all delivered by RVC experts, a tour of the Camden Campus, as well as advice and guidance on the application process.
In order to apply for this programme, you must be on-track to meet the course-specific entry requirements.
Applications must go through the University of London.
If you have any questions about our BSc Biological Sciences and Veterinary Nursing Taster Courses please email schools@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/visit-the-rvc/undergraduate-open-day:
Date : Saturday 13th June 2026 TBC Time : 10:00am - 3:30pm Location : Hawkshead Campus (Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA, United Kingdom) Age Group : Anyone can attend Capacity : Unlimited Eligibility : Anyone can attend Cost: Free Travel Support: If you are in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) check out our FSM Bursary to potentially reimburse your travel to us.
The RVC’s Open Day at the Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire , typically in May/June, is an all-encompassing, immersive and informative event for prospective students, parents/guardians and advisors.
This annual event is one of the largest and most popular on-campus visiting opportunity in the RVC calendar.
The day will offer in-depth pathway presentations and the opportunity to speak with lead academics and passionate Student Ambassadors from the RVC’s three undergraduate pathways: Biological Sciences , Veterinary Medicine & Veterinary Nursing .
To ensure that all areas of the RVC are represented on the day; professionals from Accommodation, Admissions, Learning & Wellbeing and the Students’ Union will be on-hand to share their insight through informal conversations.
There are a multitude of activities simultaneously running throughout the day, such as campus tours, behind the scenes access to hospital facilities, the chance to undertake hands-on clinical skills, rare access to Boltons Park Farm and student accommodation viewings.
This access-all-areas Open Day offers the opportunity for you to envision what being an RVC student is like to help you decide whether the RVC is your best fit.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/night-at-the-vet-college:
Date : TBC Time: 4:30pm-9pm Location: Camden Campus (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) Age Group: Anyone can attend Capacity : Limited, essential to reserve a free ticket Eligibility: Anyone can attend Cost: Free (If you are in receipt of Free School Meals check out our FSM Bursary to expense your travel to us)
Join us to see behind the scenes at the Royal Veterinary College's Camden Campus, London for an exciting evening showcasing groundbreaking science!
Our popular free event returns, giving you the opportunity to find out about world-class science discovery and our Biological Sciences degree programmes first-hand.
Since 1791, the RVC has been at the forefront of advancements in animal treatment, understanding and welfare; explore how these discoveries impact human health too.
Drop in or stay the entire evening, to gain unique insight into the fascinating work and study opportunities at the RVC.
Throughout the evening you’ll have the opportunity to:
Everyone is welcome to attend this event which will offer an unforgettable opportunity to immerse yourself in the world of veterinary science and biological research.
NB: Under 16s can attend when accompanied by an adult
Photos from Night at the Vet College 2023 →

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us:
Join us in person or online at one of our external events.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/vacation-schools:
Sign up for one of our vacation schools to allow you to experience what it is like being a student here at the RVC.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/newsletters:
Join our RVC For Me or Teacher Newsletter to keep updated with opportunities: including events and activities, top tips and advice from us, and behind-the-scenes animal stories.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/widening-participation:
We want everyone to have equal access to the fantastic opportunities of studying here at the RVC.
We are committed to offering targeted activities for local and under-represented individuals from initial engagement, followed by progression and attainment for prospective students,
The APP is required by the Office for Students (OfS) to demonstrate RVC’s commitment to social mobility, and all universities have to demonstrate activities and evaluation that shows how they are providing for non-traditional learners to access degree courses.
More information on our APP can be found here .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/supporting-all-students:
RVC students come from a wide variety of backgrounds and experiences.
Read some of their stories below, then go to Support at RVC to find answers to all your questions about access, resources and feeling welcome.
When joining the RVC I found that there were prayer rooms available on both campuses, and non-alcoholic Freshers’ events, like a theatre trip to Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, and bowling in central London.
I felt supported by friends, and everyone was friendly and willing to accommodate my religious requirements.
I was worried about finding halal food but due to the diversity of London I found many halal places to eat – the university offered some halal options as well.
I’ve found the RVC and employers are making more and more active efforts to facilitate the needs of Muslim students and other diverse groups.
When I came to the RVC I had just left my parents home as a result of me being LGBT.
I came to the RVC scared and alone, something I hope no one else experiences.
But I found support, and more importantly, a family.
The Advice Centre and their advisors helped me with my accommodation and Student Finance, supporting me every step of the way and ensuring I had student accommodation available and was able to financially support myself.
They helped me access counselling services to help my mental health.
And the LGBT+ society showed me I wasn't alone, it gave me a support group and friends.
I even walked with the National Student Pride in the London Pride 2018, and walked again with the British Veterinary LGBT+ society last year.
The RVC gave me a home, gave me a family and gave me a support network to aid me every step of the way.
And now I've graduated and I'm excited to step into the workplace with my head held high.
My family and friends were very proud of me applying to RVC, but also worried because they didn’t know much about vet schools or the veterinary profession.
After I’d started they fell in love with RVC just as much as I did.
They’re very happy about where I am, they do worry about me falling behind but I haven’t failed an exam yet so fingers crossed!
I originally got into RVC on the Gateway programme in 2016, but I missed my grades – after resitting my A Levels I got in!
The staff and the students made me feel so welcome when I started.
This, combined with the fact I was in love with RVC as a whole, made the transition into university life very easy!
I still pinch myself daily because of how much I enjoy it.
When I accepted my offer to study MSci Biological Sciences at RVC, as a British Pakistani Muslim from east London who had never owned a pet, let alone gone to a vet, before starting my course, I wasn’t sure I’d meet people with similar backgrounds to myself!
However, I discovered all the societies I could join (we had a Bollywood movie night run by RVC’s South Asian Society recently), a designated prayer facility and wash space to be able to read namāz, and Andy the Chaplin has been really instrumental in supporting the needs of Muslim students like myself – we even celebrated Ramadan together with staff and students, which was amazing.
When I started university, I was diagnosed with dyslexia and dyspraxia.
Through the support of the Learning and Development team, I was assigned a personal tutor who could help me to understand my learning difference and enable strategies that would help me to manage my work.
Adapting to university life can be stressful as it is but it can be even more difficult when you also have issues at home.
I found the counselling service at the RVC to be efficient and reliable – I was able to meet with the counsellor regularly around my studies and found the service helpful and supportive.
As I don’t come from a wealthy background and neither of my parents have any kind of higher education, I have been financially supporting myself during my studies.
Through working as an RVC Ambassador not only am I more financially secure, but it has also given me confidence and independence.
I am now in the final year of my studies, and the most important thing I have learnt is that everybody’s journey is different, and that it is okay to ask for help when you need to.
I am certain that my time at the RVC has made me more prepared for life beyond university.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity:
In pursuing our mission to educate, undertake research and provide clinical care, we remain committed to creating an inclusive, diverse and welcoming community, where our students and staff work together to ensure professionalism, mutual respect and collegiality are at the core of all activities.
Together, this is something we aspire to and continue to work towards.
As part of this commitment, our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC) was established with the aim of setting strategic and cohesive direction to embed equality, diversity and inclusion  (EDI) throughout the RVC.
The Committee brings together staff and student representatives from across the College, who drive leadership and strategic direction for the development, implementation and monitoring of equality, diversity and inclusion, to ensure that our community is inclusive and respectful.
All members of the committee are Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Champions with the remit to progress the EDI agenda within their departments.
It is the EDIC’s role to continually consider and challenge our approach, practices, and development in equality, diversity and inclusion, to enable all students and staff to embrace and embody the RVC’s values.
- Dr Christine Thuranira-McKeever, Vice-Principal for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/news-and-events/rvc-news:
Professor Stephen May recognised for contributions to veterinary education and animal welfare.
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) opened the gates to RVC Boltons Park Farm to the public over the …
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) is pleased to announce that Professor Stuart Reid CBE will …
Two individuals at the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) have been selected as recipients of the …
Dr Stuart Patterson, Senior Lecturer in Wild Animal Health & Associate Dean at the RVC and Dr.
The RVC are delighted to see the London BioScience Innovation Centre (LBIC) honoured as the …
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has been awarded the leading position for Veterinary Science in …
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has announced that the Rt.
Hon.
Professor the Lord Kakkar KG, …
0800 368 9520 RVC Press Office

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/news-and-events/rvc-news/rvc-student-honoured-with-award-for-women-in-science:
Published: 22 Jul 2025 | Last Updated: 22 Jul 2025 16:37:42
Yuting Lin, a PhD student at the RVC, has been awarded the Ruth Bowden Award by the British Federation of Women Graduates (BFWG).
This award recognises Yuting’s outstanding work on unravelling the complex ‘rules of life’ that govern how birds use their muscles and nervous systems to stand up from sitting poses, and how those rules change in birds of different sizes.
The BFWG is a UK charity that advocates for women’s rights in education and supports female scholars, particularly those pursuing advanced academic degrees.
Named after the distinguished human anatomist, Ruth Bowden, this scholarship is awarded to female doctoral students to support them in completing their theses.
Applications are reviewed by a panel of judges and assessed on several criteria, including academic excellence and the quality and significance of their research.
Yuting joined the RVC in 2022 through the LIDo Doctoral Training Programme.
Originally trained as a veterinarian at Zhejiang University, she later studied Population Health Sciences at the University of Cambridge before focusing on evolutionary biomechanics.
Her research at the RVC explores animal movement strategies under constraints, specifically looking at how animals stand up from rest - a fundamental yet overlooked behaviour for understanding vertebrate postural evolution.
Combining experiments, computational modelling and comparative anatomy in birds, Yuting’s research reveals biomechanical constraints underlying avian sit-to-stand transitions with applications from large animal rehabilitation to improving evolutionary resilience.
Yuting Lin, PhD student at the Royal Veterinary College, said:
“I'm deeply honoured to receive the Ruth Bowden Award and grateful to the BFWG for championing women in science.
This recognition belongs equally to my mentors and colleagues.
“Large birds like ostriches and emus face a fundamental biomechanical paradox — evolutionarily built for speed, yet in a constant battle with gravity just to stand up.
By decoding this challenge, we're uncovering the 'rules of life' that connect us to birds, to dinosaurs and perhaps even to the first vertebrates that ever stood on land.”
John Hutchinson, Professor of Evolutionary Biomechanics at the Royal Veterinary College, said:
“Yuting has opened up a new research area that remarkably has been overlooked.
Animals need to stand up, not just walk and run, and standing up involves some biomechanical challenges different from walking and running.
Her studies of bipedal birds are revealing fundamental principles regarding how anatomy, body size and evolutionary history shape the ability to stand up from a sitting pose.”
For media enquiries, please contact:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/news/born-to-run-new-rvc-study-reveals-link-between-early-life-experiences-and-later-life-performance-in-thoroughbreds:
Published: 26 Aug 2025 | Last Updated: 26 Aug 2025 15:35:37
New research conducted by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has revealed that Thoroughbred foals that are given extensive turnout in larger pastures during their first six months of life, and those weaned later, are more likely to go on to race, compete more often, and earn more prize money.
This is the first time in a UK field setting that the effect of early-life exposures, in particular exercise and turn out, on later-life milestones and race performance in Thoroughbreds has been comprehensively evaluated.
These novel findings can be directly applied at stud farms to help retain Thoroughbreds within the industry and achieve their maximum athletic potential - outcomes that align with priorities of the Horse Welfare Board’s strategy to support the welfare of horses bred for racing.
Conducting the research, the team, led by Dr Rebecca Mouncey, a Veterinary Surgeon and Post-Doctoral Research Fellow at the RVC, followed 129 flat race bred Thoroughbred foals, born in 2019 and 2020 on six stud farms across the UK, from birth into training for racing.
Each dam’s reproductive history, and details of her health and management during pregnancy were collected, as were daily records of the foal’s health and management from birth until they left the stud farm.
Race performance records up to the end of their fourth year of life were collated from racing industry databases.
The team then used statistical modelling to evaluate relationships between gestational exposures and early-life experiences and whether or not horses entered training and their subsequent race performance.
Findings suggested that the use of more extensive turnout practices during the first six months of life and later weaning benefited the attainment of career milestones, productivity (the number of races) and financial returns (total prizemoney won).
Key findings include that:
Published in Equine Veterinary Journal, these findings demonstrate that the first six months of life is a critical period of development in Thoroughbreds, during which it is essential that turnout and weaning practices provide sufficient opportunity for positive tissue adaptation and optimal development.
Breeders are therefore encouraged to maximise turnout whenever possible, and to consider weaning after this critical period.
Dr Rebecca Mouncey, Veterinary Surgeon and Post-Doctoral Research Fellow at the RVC, said:
“This study is the first of its type to evaluate the effect of early-life experiences on later-life performance in Thoroughbred racehorses, providing important novel findings that can be directly applied at the stud farm level to reduce wastage and improve performance in this population.
“Our findings highlight that the first six months of life are a critical period of development in Thoroughbreds, during which we must be mindful to ensure that our management practices provide sufficient opportunity for positive tissue adaptation and optimise development.”
This research was funded by the Horserace Betting Levy Board, the Racing Foundation and the RVC’s Mellon Fund for Equine Research.
Reference
Mouncey R, de Mestre AM, Arango-Sabogal JC, Verheyen KL.
Born to run?
Associations between gestational and early-life exposures and later-life performance outcomes in Thoroughbreds.
Equine Vet J.
2025.
The full paper can be accessed at: https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.70084
This research was funded by the Horserace Betting Levy Board (EPDF 2022-9 and VET/PRJ/791), the Racing Foundation and the RVC’s Mellon Fund for Equine Research.
For more information about this research, visit the project website at: Early-life determinants of performance and the Economics of Thoroughbred breeding
To view other publications from this project visit: ‪ The Thoroughbred birth cohort - ‪Google Scholar
For more information about the RVC’s Equine Practice, visit: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/practice

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/vetcompass/news/terrier-ific-new-rvc-research-gives-yorkie-dogs-a-good-bill-of-health:
Published: 13 Aug 2025 | Last Updated: 13 Aug 2025 10:04:54
New research conducted by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC)’s VetCompass programme, exploring the demography, clinical health and longevity of Yorkshire Terriers in the UK, has revealed they are largely healthy and long-lived dogs.
Despite this, the breed is increasingly being overlooked by prospective owners when deciding which dog breed to acquire.
The Yorkshire Terrier, fondly known as the ‘Yorkie’, is an old-established breed and was once highly popular among pedigree UK dogs registered with the Kennel Club.
However, recent Kennel Club registrations indicate that the pedigree subset of the breed (maximum body weight of 3.20kg) is in significant decline, dropping sharply from 0.93% of all registrations in 2013 to 0.18% of all registrations in 2022.
This means the pedigree Yorkie may soon be classified as a ‘vulnerable breed’ that is close to extinction, as more fashionable newly invented breeds such as Cockapoos become popular with the UK public.
However, there may be more to the Yorkie story, given that more than two-thirds of UK dogs are not registered with the Kennel Club and to date, there has been very little information published on the popularity and health of the overall UK pet population of Yorkshire Terriers.
This study from the RVC, which is the largest ever of its kind, therefore set out to find out more about the health and demographic trends of the wider UK pet population of Yorkshire Terriers.
Researchers analysed anonymised veterinary clinical information of 28,032 Yorkshire Terriers from a VetCompass study population of 905,542 dogs of all breeds under UK veterinary care during 2016.
The findings of the new study revealed that the wider pet population of UK Yorkshire Terriers, which are generally kept as companion dogs, are a very different type of dog to the pedigree version, with a much larger body size, averaging 5.06kg.
The overall levels of ownership of pet Yorkies is much higher than for the pedigree subset, and the drop in popularity is much less pronounced, with the general pet population decreasing from 3.54% of all dogs born in 2005 to 2.15% in 2016.
This is good news for the long-term future of the Yorkie breed overall and suggests that the larger non-pedigree subset of the breed retains some favour with the UK public.
Average population lifespan is often used as a reliable indicator of overall health in humans and dogs.
Further good news for the Yorkshire Terrier was identified in this new study, as the breed has an average lifespan of 13.56 years.
This is substantially longer than the average lifespan of 12.00 years for dogs overall and suggests that the Yorkshire Terrier can be considered to have very robust health overall.
However, Yorkshire Terriers were found to be especially prone to dental disease, and other commonly diagnosed disorders were overgrown nails, anal sac impaction, obesity and persistent deciduous teeth, which may not limit the length of life but can reduce the quality of life.
The researchers therefore encourage owners of Yorkshire Terriers to be vigilant about their dogs’ dental hygiene and regularly implement preventative home care methods such as tooth brushing and feeding specific dental diets to maintain oral hygiene.
Other key findings from the study included:
Dr Dan O’Neill, Associate Professor of Companion Animal Epidemiology at the RVC, and lead author of the paper, said:
“There seems to be growing awareness by the general public of the suffering that goes with extreme body shapes, such as extreme miniaturisation in dogs.
Therefore, this new study provides good news that the general pet population of Yorkshire Terriers are robust dogs with long lives, whose welfare can benefit further from extra attention to good dental hygiene.
Perhaps it is time for us all to reembrace the pet Yorkie as a good choice of breed to acquire.”
This study was supported by an award from the Kennel Club Charitable Trust and Agria Pet Insurance.
Dr Alison Skipper, Veterinary and Research Advisor at the Kennel Club, said:
“This research shows that Yorkshire Terriers, a British breed with a long history, are generally healthy dogs with an unusually long lifespan.
Their main disorders, such as dental disease and overgrown nails, are common problems across many breeds.
This new study confirms that ‘Yorkies’ are a good choice for someone wanting a healthy pet with low levels of breed-related disease.”
The publication of this research also marks a milestone for the RVC’s VetCompass programme, which has now published 175 academic papers on a range of topics aimed at improving companion animal health.
You can find out more here: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/vetcompass .
O'Neill, D.G., Witkowska, S.D., Brodbelt, D.C., Church, D.B., and Engdahl, K.S.
(2025) ‘Yorkshire Terriers under primary veterinary care in the UK – Demography and disorders’ Companion Animal Health and Genetics.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/vetcompass/news/new-rvc-study-reveals-novel-insights-into-nail-clipping-in-dogs-in-the-uk:
Published: 08 Aug 2025 | Last Updated: 08 Aug 2025 12:21:12
A new study by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) VetCompass Programme has revealed that nail clipping in dogs in the UK is a highly common procedure and recommends additional training and education to further support veterinarians and owners to provide optimal nail care and support animal welfare.
The study, which is the largest of its kind, also identified that breeds such as Chihuahuas and Beagles had higher needs for nail clipping than other breeds.
Nail clipping is an essential welfare procedure for dogs, as overgrown nails can cause pain and mobility issues, which can lead to injury or infection and affect their quality of life.
Previous RVC research has shown that overgrown nails are commonplace, being the fourth most frequently diagnosed disorder in dogs under primary veterinary care in the UK in 2019 1 .
Yet, despite this, RVC research has shown that nailcare is one of the most underfunded areas of research for dogs 2 .
To fill these gaps, this new paper, led by researchers from the RVC, University of Edinburgh and Scotland’s Rural College, set out to explore how factors such as breed, body weight, age and sex affect the frequency of nail clipping in dogs.
Using analysis of data from the RVC’s VetCompass Programme on a random sample of 2,440 nail clipping cases taken from over 2 million dogs under UK primary veterinary practice care during 2019, 5.64% of UK dogs (over one in twenty dogs) were found to have had their nails clipped at least once as part of their primary veterinary care each year.
The nail clipping was the primary reason for attending the veterinary visit for more than half (59.40%) of those dogs, showing just how important the issue of good nail care was to these owners.
The most cited clinical reasons for nail clipping veterinary visits were overgrown and/or ingrown nails (12.66%) and broken claws or dewclaws (8.84%), suggesting clinical nail care is an area that requires more clinical and research attention.
The researchers also identified that certain dog breeds were more likely to require nail clipping.
Compared with crossbred dogs, the four breeds with the highest percentage of dogs getting their nails clipped each year were the Chihuahua (13.29% clipped each year), Beagle (12.58%), Greyhound (11.98%) and Pug (9.36%).
Dog breeds with a skull shape that deviated from a typical medium-length skull in either direction also had a higher risk of needing nail clipping.
Flat-faced dogs breeds (e.g.
Pugs, French Bulldogs, Shih Tzu) were 1.67 times more likely to have their nails clipped, while breeds with long faces (e.g.
Greyhound, Whippet) were 1.32 times more likely to have their nails clipped, compared to breeds with a medium length skull (e.g.
Labrador Retriever, English Springer Spaniel).
Dog breeds with shortened and often twisted legs (chondrodystrophic breeds) were also 1.44 times more likely to have their nails clipped compared to dog breeds with straight legs.
Age and body weight also affected a dog’s chances of undergoing nail clipping.
Young dogs aged between 1 to 2 years were the most likely to have nail clipping procedures.
Smaller dogs weighing less than 10.00 kg had higher odds of overgrown nails compared to larger dogs weighing 40.00 kg or more.
These findings provide insights into the characteristics and conformation of different dogs and breeds that are more likely to need regular nail clipping to protect their welfare.
This highlights the importance of tailored veterinary guidance and breed-specific considerations in promoting optimal nail health and contributing to better overall canine welfare.
The frequency of nail clipping in primary veterinary care also indicates the need for comprehensive teaching of canine nail care in veterinary and veterinary nursing education, as well as proactive veterinary monitoring, nail care protocols and owner education.
Together, this may help to reduce preventable complications such as overgrown nails, ingrown claws and associated pain or infections.
Dr Dan O’Neill, Associate Professor of Companion Animal Epidemiology at the RVC and co-author of the paper, said:
“This new VetCompass study shows that some dog breeds have more than twice the need to have their nails clipped compared to other breeds.
This highlights just how distinct humanity has made each dog breed and suggests we are getting close to the time when we should no longer consider all dog breeds as even being the same species.”
Dr Lavin Ahmed, Veterinary Surgeon, President of Protecting Animals in Kurdistan Organization (PAKO) and lead author of the study, said:
“When I was first offered nail clipping by RVC VetCompass as my MSc research topic, I honestly underestimated its significance.
It seemed like just another routine procedure that we all do every day in veterinary practice.
However, reading the clinical records made it clear that nail care is more than just a trivial grooming procedure but is a genuine welfare issue that deserves much more attention in both veterinary training and owner education.”
"It's easy to overlook nail clipping as a minor intervention, but this study reminds us of the importance of providing good routine healthcare that improves canine lives.
It's also interesting to see that some breeds are more likely to need nail care.
This confirms anecdotal evidence that some foot shapes or lifestyles may influence nail wear and reminds owners to make sure they keep an eye on nail growth as they care for their pets.”
Ahmed, L.A., Somarriba, M., Brodbelt, D.C., Church, D.B.
and O’Neill, D.G.
(2025), Epidemiology and clinical management of nail clipping in dogs under UK primary veterinary care.
J Small Anim Pract.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jsap.70002
To access the full paper, please visit: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jsap.70002
1 O'Neill, D.G., James, H., Brodbelt, D.C., Church, D.B.
and Pegram, C.
(2021) 'Prevalence of commonly diagnosed disorders in UK dogs under primary veterinary care: results and applications', BMC Veterinary Research , 17(1), 69, available: http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12917-021-02775-3 .
2 Skipper, A., Packer, R.
and O’Neill, D.
(2025) Planning a better future for canine health and welfare research , Royal Veterinary College: Royal Veterinary College, available: chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://www.rvc.ac.uk/Media/Default/VetCompass/Planning%20a%20better%20future%20for%20canine%20health%20and%20welfare%20research%20RVC%20report%20February%202025.pdf.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/news/the-rvc-s-award-winning-beaumont-sainsbury-animal-hospital-receives-dog-friendly-clinic-accreditation:
Published: 06 Aug 2025 | Last Updated: 06 Aug 2025 10:16:30
The Royal Veterinary College’s (RVC) Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital (BSAH), based in Camden, has received accreditation for Dogs Trust’s Dog Friendly Clinic Scheme.
It is the only vet practice in the Camden Town, King’s Cross and St Pancras areas with this award, (run in partnership with the British Veterinary Behaviour Association), which helps ensure dogs and their owners experience the most comfortable and best possible veterinary care experience.
Treating more than 2,600 dogs each year, the BSAH team has seen first-hand how anxious dogs, and their owners, can be when visiting their vets.
Ensuring all patients and their owners feel as at ease as possible, and have a trusted client-clinic bond, the team offers several support options, including dog-only waiting rooms and wards, “happy visits” to the practice, food rewards and enrichment activities for patients.
This accreditation builds on these efforts, helping practice staff gain access to additional skills and resources specifically aimed at recognising and addressing early signs of anxiety and improve dog welfare while at the Hospital.
It also supports owners in preparing their pets ahead of visits to the vet.
Furthering the BSAH’s commitment to being a Dog Friendly clinic, and ensuring dogs have the best start in life, the clinic also now hosts behaviourist-led puppy classes.
Delivered by clinical animal behaviouralist, Antonella Marsicano, these science-based classes help puppies develop vital socialisation and life skills while teaching owners to read canine body language and support puppies to become confident, well-adjusted family dogs.
By repeatedly visiting the BSAH for training, puppies will also develop positive associations with a veterinary environment, making essential future visits to the vet less stressful for the dogs and their owners.
Dr Katharine Nelson, Director of General Practice at the Royal Veterinary College, said:
“I am so proud that the Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital has been recognised by the Dogs Trust as a Dog Friendly Clinic.
Making sure that dogs and their owners have a stress-free experience whenever they visit is of paramount importance to our team.
“Helping dogs become well-adjusted, resilient members of the family is so important for dog welfare and family relationships, so we are delighted to work with accredited veterinary and non-veterinary behaviourists to provide high quality puppy classes and assistance with problem behaviours at our practice.”
Dr Rachel Casey, Director of Strategy and Transformation at Dogs Trust, said:
“Veterinary care is an essential part of dogs’ lives, but some find visits to the vets stressful.
We are very pleased to collaborate with the BVBA to create the Dog Friendly Clinic scheme to help veterinary practices embed the principles of behavioural medicine into clinic life.
“Vet clinics are at the forefront of recognising and preventing the development of problem behaviours in dogs, and this scheme will help them develop the skills and knowledge to optimise the wellbeing of the dogs in their care.”
Chris Laurence, Chair of the British Veterinary Behaviour Association, said:
“Encouraging welfare-friendly treatment of dogs in veterinary practices is one of our primary objectives so every additional practice means many more dogs will benefit.
“We’re delighted that the RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital has joined our dog friendly community.
By doing so, they are helping ensure every dog has as positive an experience as possible within their clinic.”
The RVC’s Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital (BSAH) is a leading London veterinary practice and animal hospital based in London Borough of Camden.
It is one of the oldest vet clinics in north London (established in 1932).
As well as being renowned as the Camden vet practice, it is the preferred choice vet in Kings Cross, Islington, Highbury and the surrounding areas.
For more information about BSAH, visit: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice
For more information about the behaviour-led puppy classes, visit:
https://www.rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/practice-services/routine-pet-healthcare/behaviour
For more information please contact:
Dogs Trust is the UK’s largest dog welfare charity and cares for 14,000 dogs a year across its network of 21 rehoming centres in the UK and one in Dublin.
Dogs Trust has a non-destruction policy and will never put a healthy dog to sleep.
The charity also focuses its efforts on understanding dogs and sharing that knowledge with the wider public to prevent problem behaviours that can result in relinquishment or abandonment.
We are working towards the day when all dogs can enjoy a happy life, free from the threat of unnecessary destruction.
Dogs Trust is a charity registered in England and Wales (1167663), and in Scotland (SC053144), and a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales (09365971).
BVBA is a charity and promotes education, based on science and good evidence, of the veterinary and animal behaviour professions.
We also promote the advancement of high welfare handling in practice.
We encourage both professions to work closely together to improve the welfare of all animals.
The Animal Wellbeing Centre aspires to help owners build positive relationships with their dog by empowering them with up-to-date knowledge and best dog training tips required to prevent, manage and solve unwanted behaviours.
For more information about Antonella Marsicano and the Animal Wellbeing Centre, visit: https://www.animalwellbeingcentre.com/

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/news/the-rvc-to-offer-minimally-invasive-surgical-procedure-for-horses-suffering-from-cervical-spinal-nerve-compression:
Published: 01 Aug 2025 | Last Updated: 01 Aug 2025 10:00:31
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has announced the expansion of its Equine Referral Hospital services to include a pioneering surgical procedure for horses with cervical spinal nerve compression.
From 1 st August 2025, the introduction of uniportal endoscopic foraminotomy will offer horse owners and referring veterinary surgeons a viable treatment option for this condition, where previously only limited options were available to prevent long-term suffering.
The spinal cord runs inside the bony spinal canal that is formed by the adjacent vertebrae.
From the central spinal cord, individual spinal nerves arise that travel into the periphery of the body connecting extremities with the central spinal cord and brain.
The nerve roots exit the spinal canal via the intervertebral foramen (IVF), an opening on either side between two adjacent vertebrae.
The IVF is unique since its boundaries consist of two movable joints: the ventral (non-synovial) intervertebral joint and the dorsal (synovial) articular process joint (APJ).
Pathological changes to one or both joints can result in narrowing of the IVF, causing cervical spinal nerve compression, the most common of which is at the 6 th (C6) and 7 th (C7) vertebrae at the base of the horse’s neck.
When experiencing cervical spinal nerve compression, horses can exhibit one, or a combination, of the following clinical signs: neck pain/stiffness; intermittent or persistent forelimb lameness; proprioceptive deficits (i.e.
stumbling, falls); and poor performance (i.e.
ridden complaints).
Funding from the RVC Animal Care Trust, Betty Phillips Charitable Trust and Follett Trust provided vital equipment and enabled the RVC’s equine surgeons, led by Dr Alex Hawkins, Lecturer in Equine Surgery at the RVC’s Equine Referral Hospital, to undertake specialist training.
This was initially conducted in Germany and later at the RVC itself - under the guidance of Dr Jan-Hein Swagemakers, the developer of the surgical technique.
To facilitate this service, the RVC team will conduct clinical examinations before identifying suitable surgical candidates using the recently installed Qalibra computed tomography (CT) machine.
The minimally invasive procedure will then be performed, on suitable candidates, under general anaesthesia to remove excess bone, relieve nerve compression and create more space within the spinal canal – ultimately reducing pain and improving neurological function.
With only one other established equine hospital currently offering this treatment in the UK, these collaborative and pioneering efforts (supported by the expertise of RIWO Spine UK and Dr Rachel Tucker from Liphook Equine Hospital) enhance the RVC’s ability to expand its equine clinical services and deliver the highest standard of care for horses affected by this debilitating condition.
Following the launch of this service, the RVC team will be embarking on a collaborative research project with the aim of improving diagnosis and treatment for equine patients by deepening understanding of the anatomy, surgical techniques and advanced imaging of the equine cervical intervertebral foramen.
Dr Alex Hawkins, Lecturer in Equine Surgery at the RVC Equine Referral Hospital, said:
“We are excited to introduce uniportal endoscopic foraminotomy as a surgical option at the RVC’s Equine Referral Hospital.
Developed by Dr.
Jan-Hein Swagemakers, this innovative, minimally invasive surgery offers new hope for owners with horses suffering from chronic or debilitating neck pain, helping to improve their comfort, mobility, and overall quality of life.
It also offers referring veterinarians a reliable, evidence-based option for managing suitable cases of cervical spinal nerve compression.
“More than 300 surgeries have now been performed worldwide with early outcomes showing promising results (reported to be an approximately 80% success rate) and so we encourage colleagues to consider this minimally invasive procedure for horses showing clinical signs consistent with foraminal stenosis, particularly those not responding to conservative management.”
RVC Equine Hospital patients must be referred by a general practice or first opinion vet.
For more information about the RVC Equine Hospital, visit: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/hospital-and-specialists

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/news-and-events/rvc-news/professors-dame-angela-mclean-and-gary-england-awarded-rvc-honorary-degrees:
Published: 30 Jul 2025 | Last Updated: 30 Jul 2025 11:51:45
At the 2025 graduation ceremony, the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) awarded Honorary Degrees of Veterinary Medicine to two eminent leaders in science and veterinary medicine – Professor Dame Angela McLean and Professor Gary England.
Conferred by RVC President & Principal, Professor Stuart Reid CBE, these honours recognise significant contributions to research, education and public service and a profound impact in the veterinary and scientific communities.
Dame Angela, who has served as the Government Chief Scientific Adviser since 2023, was recognised for her outstanding leadership and innovative applications of mathematical models to aid understanding of the evolution and spread of infectious agents.
Graduating from the University of Oxford with a degree in Mathematics and a PhD in Biological Sciences, Professor Dame Angela was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society and received the Gabor Medal and Weldon Memorial Prize.
A renowned academic, she has utilised her expertise in this area to formulate evidence-led public policy, including co-developing the Oxford Martin School Restatements – an activity which restructures and presents evidence underlying an issue of policy concern or controversy in concise, uncharged form for lay audiences.
She received her Damehood in 2018 for services to mathematical biology and to scientific advice to government.
Professor England, Dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine and Science at the University of Nottingham, was recognised for his pioneering contributions to veterinary clinical practice, education and research, particularly in the field of small animal reproduction.
Graduating from the RVC in 1986, Professor England continued at the RVC to gain specialist clinical qualifications in diagnostic imaging and reproduction, as well as completing his PhD and post-doctoral training.
He has since held various leadership roles at Guide Dogs UK, including Acting Chief Executive, and has led ground-breaking research, including the first successful in vitro fertilisation in dogs and studies linking environmental chemical exposure to declining fertility.
A committed academic and clinician, Professor England has played a central role in strengthening veterinary education in the UK, founding multiple organisations focused on postgraduate training and professional development, and establishing the UK’s first new veterinary school in decades at the University of Nottingham where he has served as Dean for 20 years.
He also played a key role in the wider profession with leading roles in both the revised Fellowship of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons and the UK Veterinary Schools Council, in which he served as its first Chair.
“Honorary degrees are a means by which we at the RVC can recognise and promote the excellence of outstanding members of our community.
We are now fortunate to be able to count both of our honourees amongst our alumni and to hold them up as role models for future generations of our student body.
To both Angela and Gary, I offer our congratulations and, more importantly, our thanks.”

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/news/new-genomic-study-by-the-rvc-reveals-key-drivers-of-strangles-transmission-in-uk-horses:
Published: 29 Jul 2025 | Last Updated: 29 Jul 2025 10:03:21
A novel study by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has revealed new insights into how the highly contagious disease strangles spreads amongst horses in the UK.
This research marks a significant step forward in understanding how owners and veterinarians can more effectively manage and prevent outbreaks of this devastating equine disease, through targeted interventions and outbreak management protocols.
Strangles is a highly contagious and potentially life-threatening upper respiratory tract infection caused by the bacterium Streptococcus equi ( S.
equi ) , which can affect horses, ponies and donkeys of all breeds and ages.
With approximately 300 laboratory-confirmed cases reported in the UK each year, and many more likely undiagnosed, strangles continues to pose serious welfare and financial risks to the equine industry.
Seeking to strengthen understanding of the disease’s transmission, particularly the relative contribution of short-term (immediately post infection) versus long-term carriers (carriers that were infected months or years prior), researchers from the RVC, the University of Cambridge, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and Redwings Horse Sanctuary, analysed more than 500 S.
equi samples from across the UK between 2016 and 2022.
These samples were collected from clinical cases sent to diagnostic laboratories by veterinary surgeons seeking confirmation of infection.
Surplus samples were submitted to the Surveillance of Equine Strangles network and then cultured in the RVC’s research laboratory and their DNA extracted and sequenced to reveal each bacterium’s complete genetic code.
Adopting a novel approach that combined whole genome sequencing and epidemiological data, the researchers were able to trace how strains are related and have evolved.
With the use of computer programmes, they also tracked how genetically related strains spread between horses and across regions, over time.
Critically, by adopting this approach, the team was able to pinpoint likely transmission events and chains of infection.
Analysing these transmission dynamics, key findings of the study revealed:
Funded by the Horse Trust, and building on previous RVC research into the disease, these findings have far-reaching implications for how veterinarians and horse owners manage outbreaks.
The research highlights the need for early diagnosis, isolation and laboratory-confirmed clearance, particularly through guttural pouch testing, before assuming a horse is infection-free.
It also advocates for tighter biosecurity and movement protocols, especially when transporting horses across regions.
Dr Abigail McGlennon, former PhD student in the Department of Pathobiology and Population Sciences at the RVC, and lead author of the paper, said:
“Strangles is a challenging and distressing disease for horses, owners, yards and vets, and this work has highlighted just how easily it can be spread across the UK in a short period of time.
“This study shows how important enhanced surveillance utilising epidemiological and genomic data is to investigate and understand strangles transmission across the UK.
Our data highlights the importance of greater awareness and adoption of post-outbreak screening protocols to confirm freedom from infection, rather than owners assuming recovery based on the resolution of clinical signs.”
Nic de Brauwere, Head of Welfare and Behaviour at Redwings Horse Sanctuary and co-author of the paper, said:
“This research, and the publication of this paper, have advanced our knowledge around strangles transmission significantly.
It is so rewarding when high level research is able to have real-world relevance, and bring immediate potential benefits to equine health.
Owners, yards and vets can improve how they focus their screening efforts on the highest risk situations based on sound evidence, making the best use of limited resources whilst having a direct impact on the spread of infection to new susceptible equines.”
The RVC has an Equine Practice and Equine Referral Hospital which combines world-leading research with the largest number of RCVS equine specialists.
For more information, visit: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet
McGlennon AA, Verheyen KL, Newton JR, van Tonder A, Wilson H, Parkhill J, et al.
Unwelcome neighbours: Tracking the transmission of Streptococcus equi in the United Kingdom horse population.
Equine Vet J .
https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.14558
The full paper can be viewed at: https://doi.org/10.1111/evj.14558

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/research-centres-and-facilities/veterinary-epidemiology-economics-and-public-health/news/global-expert-report-provides-new-comprehensive-recommendations-for-one-health:
Published: 28 Jul 2025 | Last Updated: 28 Jul 2025 10:24:42
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has co-authored a new report, as part of the Lancet One Health Commission, which provides a framework and recommendations for implementing an effective One Health approach.
It aims to bring together human, animal, and ecosystem health initiatives more effectively across policy, practice and governance to better protect the planet and our communities.
In a globalised world, the health threats to animals, people, plants and the environment are increasingly driven by interconnected crises such as infectious diseases, antimicrobial resistance, climate change and ecological degradation.
The COVID-19 pandemic in particular highlighted the urgent need for more globally integrated and cross-sector collaboration and One Health strategies to protect our people, animals, plants and environment.
The Lancet One Health Commission was convened in 2019 and comprises more than 40 global leaders from academia, science, public health and policy, as well as funders and international organisations.
Supported by renowned universities and research institutes, the group has launched this report to inform the future of One Health and help shape health governance, sustainability planning and policy development.
The RVC’s expertise made important contributions to the report, including systems thinking, application of One Health to food systems and One Health economics.
This ensured considerations of funding and financing, and the One Health value proposition.
Creating the report, the Commission conducted extensive literature reviews, cross-sector stakeholder engagement, analysis of existing frameworks, knowledge sharing and expert dialogue.
It builds on the work of organisations, such as the Quadripartite for One Health and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, but advances a holistic and systems-level thinking of health in socio-ecological systems, building on One Health principles and governance.
The report found that there are currently siloed sector responses and existing health systems neglecting environmental and socioecological determinants of disease, limiting the effectiveness of interventions.
Surveillance systems across humans, animals and ecosystems are also disconnected, and there is a lack of shared indicators, frameworks and dedicated financing for One Health initiatives.
Furthermore, low- and middle-income countries are disproportionately affected but underrepresented in funding and decision-making.
Education systems and public awareness are unprepared to support the shift toward One Health thinking, and the private sector is under-engaged and at times misaligned with One Health values.
Compounding this, it was found that food systems, a major driver of environmental and health pressures, are not adequately addressed in health planning, and ultimately, a growth-at-all-costs economic mindset is undermining the development of a sustainable future.
The report, therefore, outlines a set of key recommendations to improve the implementation of One Health approaches.
These are:
The Commission is now calling for individual, community, organisational, national, regional and international action to advance equitable, sustainable and healthy socioecological systems.
Professor Barbara Häsler, Professor in Agrihealth at the RVC and co-author of the report, said:
”After years in the making, we are very proud to see the Lancet One Health Commission report published.
It provides deep and nuanced insights into the interconnectedness of the many health challenges the world is facing, and sheds light on topics neglected to date in One Health.
“The report highlights the need for multi-sectoral, multi-stakeholder and systemic solutions where everyone has a role to play.
With its recommendations and avenues for the future of One Health, it is an excellent resource for sparking dialogue on how we can tackle collectively and collaboratively pressing health challenges like the triple planetary crises (climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution), infectious diseases, food system risks, and antimicrobial resistance.”
The Lancet One Health Commission report can be viewed in full at: https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(25)00627-0/fulltext
For more information about the Lancet One Health Commission, visit: https://www.thelancet.com/commissions-do/one-health and https://lancetonehealth.org/
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) has led novel research on India’s 2019 ban on the use of …

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/vetcompass/news/new-rvc-study-sheds-light-on-the-prognosis-of-aggressive-canine-cancer:
Published: 25 Jul 2025 | Last Updated: 25 Jul 2025 15:50:36
New research from the RVC VetCompass Programme has provided fresh insights into survival rates for dogs diagnosed with haemangiosarcoma, one of the most aggressive cancers in companion animals.
Despite an association with extremely poor survival rates, this study reveals that outcomes can vary more widely than previously understood, particularly based on tumour location and treatment pathway.
Haemangiosarcoma, a fast-growing cancer of the blood vessels, is commonly diagnosed in older dogs.
It has long been associated with extremely poor survival rates, often leading pet owners and first-opinion vets to opt for euthanasia at the point of diagnosis.
The findings of this study challenge long-standing assumptions regarding this cancer and will support vets to have more nuanced and informed dialogues with owners about the most suitable next steps following diagnosis.
The cancer epidemiology research team formed by Dr Dave Brodbelt, Dr Dan O’Neill, Dr Collette Taylor, Dr Georgina Barry and Dr Sandra Guillen, analysed the records of 788 dogs diagnosed in 2019 under general practice care.
Their analysis revealed that the median survival time (MST) for dogs diagnosed with hemangiosarcoma was just 9 days, with only 12% of dogs surviving beyond one year.
However, researchers found that survival times varied significantly depending on tumour location and that dogs who received surgical treatment or had skin (cutaneous) forms of the cancer lived considerably longer.
The study also found that dogs with a histopathologically confirmed diagnosis (tissue samples studied under a microscope) had an MST of 105 days, and 28% survived a year from the date of diagnosis, indicating that a proportion of dogs, especially those with early cancer stage, can benefit from surgery.
Importantly, the findings suggest that early euthanasia may be skewing perceptions of prognosis.
This highlights the need for careful communication and support at diagnosis, as assumptions about prognosis could influence outcomes more than previously recognised.
Other key findings:
Dr Sandra Guillen, Lecturer in Veterinary Oncology at the RVC, and author of the paper, said:
“ This study sheds light on the outcomes of canine haemangiosarcoma in the first opinion practice setting and challenges long-held assumptions regarding this cancer.
By revealing that some dogs, particularly those with cutaneous forms or who undergo surgery, can live longer, it encourages us to move beyond a one-size-fits-all approach.
It highlights the importance of open client dialogue, even in the face of a difficult diagnosis”.
Dr Collette Taylor, canine cancer epidemiologist at the Royal Veterinary College, and lead author of the paper said:
“Our work here identifies a short survival time for dogs diagnosed with haemangiosarcoma in first opinion clinics in the UK.
As most research for this cancer has focused on referral or specialist veterinary centre populations, these figures provide UK first opinion vets with the necessary data for contextualised care discussions when dog owners are faced with this much dreaded diagnosis.
“Exploring early euthanasia and its impact on survival times is an important next step for haemangiosarcoma research.” The study was funded by the Morris Animal Foundation.
For more information about the RVC’s Small Animal Referrals Medicine service, visit: https://rvc.uk.com/sar-internal-medicine-service
Taylor, C., Barry, G.J., O’Neill D.G., Guillén, A.
et al (2025) ‘ Survival time and prognostic factors in dogs clinically diagnosed with haemangiosarcoma in UK first opinion practice’.
PLOS ONE
The full paper can be accessed at: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0316066

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/research/facilities-and-resources/animal-welfare-science-and-ethics/news/rvc-studies-identify-lack-of-public-awareness-surrounding-puppy-importation:
Published: 25 Jul 2025 | Last Updated: 25 Jul 2025 14:00:14
Two new studies from the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) have revealed widespread public misunderstanding about the importation of puppies from countries within the European Union (EU).
With growing concern about the scale and impact of this trade, including puppy welfare and illegal imports, the research highlights the need for greater education and policy change to tackle the growing risks.
The relatively unregulated import trade of puppies presents many possible risks, including welfare implications for puppies and breeding dogs, and risk of diseases for both humans and canines, which are compounded by a continuous high demand for puppies in the UK market.
Currently, approximately 950,000 puppies are estimated to be needed to meet UK customer demand each year, with only 20 per cent thought to come from registered domestic breeders.
This high demand for puppies in the UK is promoting illegal puppy importation, ranking as the third most lucrative crime in the EU.
Puppies born into the illegal puppy trade are more likely to come from low-welfare breeding establishments, greatly increasing their risk of health and behavioural challenges.
Additionally, there is a risk of imported dogs carrying “exotic” diseases such as Brucella canis , Leishmania infantum and even rabies, presenting a threat to the health of canine and human populations in the UK.
This is of concern given a recent report (National Audit Office, June 2025) highlighted significant gaps in the UK’s preparedness for animal disease outbreaks.
These studies come as the Animal Welfare (Import of Dogs, Cats and Ferrets) Bill has just had its third reading in the House of Commons and will now be debated in the House of Lords.
If passed, the legislation will aim to tackle unethical and illegal importation of dogs by prohibiting the import of puppies under six months of age, heavily pregnant animals and dogs subjected to ear cropping or tail docking.
The research findings from both studies emphasise that such legal measures are important but must be accompanied by public education efforts to ensure potential owners understand the risks and responsibilities involved in purchasing imported pets.
The first of the new RVC studies surveyed over 7,000 UK residents - primarily current dog owners - to assess public knowledge of EU Pet Passports, the legal requirements for importing puppies, and the disease risks associated with puppy movement across borders.
Results revealed major knowledge gaps, including confusion about transport methods, legal importation age, and awareness of dangerous diseases such as rabies and leishmaniasis.
Other key findings include:
The second new RVC study examined people’s attitudes and perceptions of the risks and benefits to puppies of being imported from Romania to the UK for sale (one of the most common countries from which puppies and dogs are imported to the UK), and the risks and benefits to UK-based owners of purchasing a puppy imported from Romania.
Analysis of 4,000 responses from UK residents to an online survey showed that:
When considering risks and benefits to the puppy from being imported:
Dr Rowena Packer, Senior Lecturer in Companion Behaviour and Welfare Science, and senior author on both papers, said:
“The UK is considered a nation of dog lovers; however, our insatiable desire for puppies cannot currently be met by domestic supply from UK breeders, which has encouraged illegal importation pathways to open to meet this demand.
Our results indicate that the UK public’s lack of awareness on key issues related to puppy importation have likely led to many well-meaning buyers sleepwalking into supporting the illegal puppy trade.
Although the introduction of a ban on puppy imports under six months old is encouraging, any enforcement measures need to be backed up by changes to puppy buyer awareness and behaviour.
We would urge any potential puppy buyer to scrutinise all individuals offering puppies for sale or ‘rescue’, ask questions of the seller about a puppy’s origins, and to walk away if they have any concerns.
Whilst buying an imported puppy to ‘rescue’ it may feel like the right thing to do, unfortunately this only proliferates the trade putting many more puppies at risk.”
Dr Zoe Belshaw, veterinary specialist, and first author on both papers, said:
“This is the first large-scale study to assess UK residents’ knowledge and attitudes towards imported puppies.
We found worrying knowledge gaps related to EU Pet Passports, building on our previous research which identified that 10% of puppies bought in the UK during the COVID-19 pandemic had a Pet Passport at purchase.
These findings suggest that UK residents may be inadvertently purchasing puppies born abroad thinking they are UK-bred.
Furthermore, even those who know or suspect their puppy has originated overseas may underestimate the range of risks associated with owning one.
Puppies born overseas may carry diseases which can infect both people and other dogs, yet many respondents to this survey were unaware of these diseases.
Our findings suggest that much more needs to be done to educate the UK public about exotic disease risks.”
Danny Chambers MP who introduced the Animal Welfare (Import of Dogs, Cats and Ferrets) Bill said:
““As a vet and an MP, I’ve seen firsthand the heartache experienced by families who unknowingly bring home sick or traumatised animals.
These important studies from the Royal Veterinary College expose a dangerous lack of public awareness around puppy imports and the very real threats they pose: from serious animal welfare concerns to the public health risk of introducing diseases like rabies and Brucella canis into the UK.
“While legislation like my Puppy Smuggling Bill is vital to closing loopholes exploited by unscrupulous traders, these findings highlight that laws alone aren’t enough.
We urgently need a public education campaign to ensure potential dog owners understand the risks of buying imported or low-welfare puppies and the importance of choosing responsibly.
Protecting animal welfare and public health must go hand in hand.”
Belshaw, Z., & Packer, R.
M.A., UK public knowledge of puppy imports from EU countries: gaps in awareness and implications for animal welfare.
Animals (2025).
doi: 10.20944/preprints202506.0660.v1
Belshaw, Z., Youens, E., Lord, M.
& Packer, R.
M.
A.
UK public perceptions of the risks and benefits of purchasing imported puppies.
doi: 10.20944/preprints202506.0716.v1

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/teaching-and-research:
The RVC has been at the forefront of veterinary education and research since the College was founded in 1791.
It continues to push the boundaries of veterinary science and perpetually evolves curricula to help develop students’ knowledge, understanding and clinical and professional competence.
The RVC's cutting-edge teaching hospitals are critical to the development of our Veterinary Medicine and Veterinary Nursing students.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners:
The Queen Mother Hospital for Animals (QMHA) is one of the largest and most advanced veterinary hospitals in the world and the location of most of the services of RVC Small Animal Referrals.
The hospital is a purpose-built facility just north of the M25 and near Potters Bar, Hertfordshire.
This makes it within easy reach of London, the home counties and East Anglia.
As a world-renowned teaching hospital, our clinicians have access to the latest research and most advanced equipment.
RVC Small Animal Referrals has a wealth of distinct clinical services and clinics let by leading experts in each discipline.
However, we also have a 'transdisciplinary' approach, which means veterinary specialists with expertise in different areas work together on many cases to ensure that referred animals get input from different clinical disciplines and benefit from the experience of different practitioners.
Having such a range of experts working together under one roof is of great benefit to our patients and also to owners, who value having a 'one-stop-shop' to deal with whatever the presentation is.
Often conditions are complex and effect more than one system, or animals may have more that one condition impacting upon one another.
The education of vets, veterinary nurses, scientists and advanced specialists is core to the RVC's mission.
Trainee veterinary specialists are actively involved with the clinical work within our teaching hospitals and veterinary students will also be involved with cases, under supervision of senior vets, and observe procedures.
As well as helping to train the vets of the future, the wealth of clinicians involved with cases means that each animal gets extensive veterinary input.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/clinical-services/veterinary-transfusion-medicine/component-therapy:
Blood collected from our canine and feline donors is used for a variety of different patient concerns.
The Transfusion Medicine Service processes blood obtained from our donors into a variety of different components.
Separation of whole blood into its constituents allows for a more tailored approach of administering products based on our individual patient needs.
It also allows for a longer storage time of blood products, minimising wastage of this vital resource.
The products we have available for our canine and feline patients include

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/could-your-pet-help-save-lives/meet-our-donors:
Aspen
Banjo - Banjo is 4 years old Xbreed (mastiff-GSD we think) male who is overly friendly, and happy-go-lucky type of personality.
He likes his bedtime, and he does not like his daily mouth cleaned by 'mummy' or nails clipped, but he loves coming to see blood donor team!
Baxter - Baxter right , Odin left.
Baxter is a big loveable dufus, He loves to play ball, swim and run in the woods.
He also has been trained as an assistance dog and does a lot with his dad.
Beau - he has a cheese obsession and will do pretty much anything for it!
Loves to give me big hugs with his lanky legs, if he sleeps with me he takes over the entire bed pushing me out!
He loves using his nose, he has passed his bronze sniffer class which he was amazing at xxx
Bella C - sister to Fleur.
A happy go lucky personality, scared of nothing and thinks everyone is her best friend as soon as she sees them.
She loves swimming, rolling in whatever she can find(!), walks and cuddles on the sofa.
They are the best of friends and are often found curled up in the same bed,
Benson - This is Benson, our gorgeous 6 year old.
Benson loves the great outdoors, and especially enjoys joining us on our dog walks to the local park - he follows us the whole way down there, and back again, the neighbours think it’s hilarious!
Blue - following in his Mum Grace's and Uncles Caesar's footsteps, has given blood since he was a year old and now he is 5.
Even during lockdown, he was a brave boy and went in on his own with his favourite nurses to continue giving blood.
Oscar (AKA Mr Cloud) has been Donor of the Year!
Blue L - following in his Mum Grace's and Uncles Caesar's footsteps, has given blood since he was a year old and now he is 5.
Bracken - Bracken is a 6 year old Working Cocker Spaniel who loves to be active.
Not only is he a working dog he enjoys doing dog agility every week.
Buster - Buster is a little toerag, who butter wouldn't melt in his mouth!
Into everything  - especially the recycling bags!!
Callie - Callie is a very friendly 4.5 year old labrador with possibly the waggiest tail you have seen.
She loves people, running around with her dog pals and food - exceptionally food motivated even by labrador standards!
Charity - She is 3 years old, so a bit late starting her Blood Donor duties (a pandemic got in the way!) but we are now off to a flying start, following in the pawsteps of 7 generations of her family line that have been blood donors.
She has passed her Bronze Good Citizen and will soon take her Silver.
Charlie F - Charlie loves being outside, going on long walks, swimming, and doing flyball!
He loves going to give blood as it is an hour of playtime, with a delicious extra meal after his donation!
Chase - Chase is a very happy, friendly boy, who loves nothing more than to play with his ball.
He is still only young, full of enthusiasm and keen to learn, picking up new skills all in his stride.
Dorothy - Dottie by name Dottie by nature!
She is a crazy, fun-loving cocker spaniel who just adores the attention of the blood donor nurses.
Dottie mainly donates blood for serum eye drops however she has given a small unit to a little feline friend too!
Ernie - Ernie is the biggest cuddle bug.
he wants everyone and everything to love him and has a lot to say about everything.
He loves digging on the beech and a good sniff about
Everest - Everest fondly named by her 'paw patrol' obsessed mini human.
Everest lives up to her grand name...
albeit not quite as adventurous as the mountain but she does love to climb the 40ft conifers in her garden and pays regular visits to her pigeon neighbours!
Finn - Finn, our third Trailhound on the blood donor programme, loves his food, sleeping on his back with his legs in the air (ready for a belly rub), chasing tennis balls but never bringing them back and racing around, ears flapping, on a windy day
Fleur C - Labrador.
Older sister to Bella by about 2 hours!
Has a cheeky (and vocal) personality.
Loves to retrieve anything and will always greet you with something in her mouth whether that’s a toy, a kong, a ball or your slipper!
She is shy with strangers but easily won over with a gravy bone and then she is your best friend..
Geraldine - friendliest greyhound with not much between the ears.
Loves to roach and eat!
Ginny - Ginny is a very lazy cat who finds everything very scary.
She loves a good cuddle to make friends and pouncing at you when you are least expect it.
She loves to sleep under things and in boxes and steal everyone's food.
Gretel - Gretel is a loveable loon who is terrified of going to our vets, but seems to know when she’s coming to donate - maybe it’s the treats!
She is 6 years old and was a mummy to a gorgeous litter of 8 pups in 2020.
She’s a family pet and BFF to our 9 year old daughter.
Grigio - the most incredible likeness to his sire Zinfandel, my first blood donor hero, he loves to run and plays with everyone.
Loves visitors as they all admire him!
Iona - My name is Iona the Schnauzer I am 3 years old a very busy girl.
Grace the Poodle is training me to donate blood, I live with 2 Persian cats and also model for the grooming academy so if you need blood I’ll be there for you
Izzy - Izzy is a bit of “I do what I want!” But super loving with it!
None of our friends can believe that Izzy ( who doesn’t normally sit still) is a blood donor .
Just shows the trust she has with the fabulous team.
Izzy P - Izzy is 5 years old.
Her favourite things are food, squirrels, sleeping, her soft toys (especially the squeaky ones!) and stealing our cats food when no one is looking!
We all love her soooo much.
Kea - chaos and cuddles in a yellow furry package!
As well as being an RVC blood donor, Kea also assists the RVC vet students as a ‘teaching dog’.
Kea’s favourite activities include playing, running and carrying around her toy duck.
If you see her around the campus, come to say ‘hello’!
Leo B - He is our handsome Greyhound who makes everyone he meets fall in love!
Sleeps for 23 hrs per day, but is always up for fuss, kisses, cuddles and treats!
Lestat
Levi - My lovely Levi is a 2yr old Longhair Weimaraner.
He’s my life saver having supported me during divorce and Covid.
As a 'covid pup' he was a little nervous of the hospital at first , but I'm so proud of how brave he's become.
Luna B - She is fun loving and cheeky with people she knows but still very nervous around strangers particularly men.
She is a beautiful, speedy little monster and a couch potato but a wonderful younger but bigger sister to Rufus.
Luna S - Luna is a very chilled cat who loves nothing more than some catnip and a belly rub she loves her trips to the rvc and sings the whole way in the car.
Lyra - Lyra came to our lives after an accident with a car left her with a wonky pelvis and needing a surgery on her hip 3 years ago.
She's done brilliantly and hasn't looked back since.
We decided to volunteer her for blood donations after we lost our elderly cat due to severe anaemia.
Lyra loves cuddles and Dreamies.
She is a bit of a diva, but will do anything for a chin scratch.
Margaux - is a ridgeless Rhodesian Ridgeback.
Despite being 2yrs old she still behaves like a playful puppy.
She has the most gentle temperament, wants to be friends with everyone and gives the best cuddles.
She loves going for a run or walking in the woods, but every walk is better if she meets another dog to play with
Max W
Milady - Milady will follow you around the house like a little shadow carrying her Grumpy Cat toy, and loves joining people on the sofa to watch TV when she’s not racing up and down the stairs in the middle of the night.
She’s very loving in her quirky and quiet way
Milo - This is Milo!
Swimming is his favourite occupation.
Milo J - Hello, Milo here.
I am cool, calm and fluffy.
My favourite activities are eating and sleeping, especially on a nice warm lap.
Misty - she is a mischievous little monkey and loves her squeaky toys.
She always heads for the toy section when taking her into the local pet shop!
She was a very nervous dog at first but is really coming out of her shell now.
Murphy A - This is Murphy, my lovely rottweiler cross shepherd.
He loves his walks and meeting his friends on the field.
Murphy loves attention, being cuddled and chicken.
Oberon - Geniunly LOVES his trips to RVC for donations, all the cuddles, kisses not to mention treats he receives generally mean great excitement in the car enroute.
This usually follows with an afternoon of well deserved naps and cuddles
Odin - Odin (left) is a big cuddly, loveable dufus too.
We often say him and Baxter share a brain cell.
Odin likes to do anything with you and would go anywhere with his person.
Otter - This is Otter taking a well earned  rest after giving blood!
Paddy - Paddy has been donating since 2017.
He is a very sweet boy who loves his Dreamies and has been known to maybe even fall asleep during donation sessions!
Pirelli - Relli loves to explore the garden, bushes and trees, she enjoys a spot of hunting but also snuggles with her humans and her other furry housemates.However, her biggest passion in life is food!Relli is more than happy to donate blood as she is always provided with copious amounts of fusses and of course food!
Podge - I have been donating since 2020.I love to play fetch especially with bottle tops.
I'm obsessed with being brushed and I'm just starting to be harness trained so I can go on adventures outside!
And if you can't tell a bit of a foodie!
I love saving other furry friends and friends told me I'm a very good boy!
Raphi - Raphi is the most loveable, cuddly, needy dog there is!Being a cocker spaniel, he loves water (even a puddle!) playing and cuddles.Raphi enjoys giving blood as he gets so much fuss and of course a huge amount of treats.
Rioja - quite a serious soul but perfect as my minder on our smallholding, where he ignores the sheep and chickens but runs from the geese!
Sandy - Hi I'm Sandy - I like sun puddles, belly rubs, chirping at birds, pretending to be draft excluders and chasing balls, promise you I am a cat!
Never a dafter cat you'd find!
Shuri - Shuri is our wonderful little mystery kitty!
We adopted her when she was around a year and a half old and sadly known very little about her background.
She is a super smoochy girl who loves nothing more than a cuddle!
She also loves to play fetch with her toy mice.
Soave - very inquisitive and rather fearless, likes to chase birds and leaves!
Steve - Steve is a chilled out mummy's boy, although he wants delivery drivers to think he's a ferocious animal when barking behind a closed door!
Stitch - Stitch is my partner in crime and goes everywhere with me!
He gives the best cuddles and loves his food!
Suki - underwent surgery at a young age at the RVC to create a new hip and socket.
She is a fun-loving, gentle and caring Labrador who wanted to give something back to help others.
Giving blood also gives her the opportunity to come back to the RVC to see all the familiar faces again, which she loves to do!
Tetley - Don’t let Tetley's puppy face deceive you, he is a ball obsessed, squirrel chasing little monster.
But he is also a cuddle monster and the softest boy you will ever meet!
Theo - is a really laid-back cat who takes donating blood in his stride, we always get told how chilled he is whilst with the donation team!
At home, he loves sleeping (preferably in a cardboard box) and eating with the odd break for charging around the house at full speed with one of his siblings.
Tyrone - Tyrone loves bags, any kind of bag, he likes to sit in them and listen to the crunchy noise they make.
Purrs like a lawnmower, likes to bite his owners eyebrows to wake them up in the morning and he loves water - always tries to get in the bath.
Wilf - After his big brother Sidney needed a life saving blood transfusion in 2021, Wilfred signed up to the blood donor program to help more dogs & cats like his big bro!
He is the goodest boy and we are ever so proud of him!
Winter - Winter is the happiest soul there is, and in her mind everyone is her friend, they just don’t know it yet!
Zooma - Zooma is my best friend and I am really proud of him.
We spend lots of time running together and have many adventures.
Zooma loves everyone both human and canine and loves his trips to the RVC where he gets totally spoilt.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/act/support-us/pet-blood-donor-appeal:
As the RVC Queen Mother Hospital for Animals has expanded over the years, so too has the life-saving potential of veterinary medicine.
We can now treat more diseases, illnesses and injuries than ever before.
Vital to this work is our Blood Donor team.
We need to raise £150,000 to turn our dream into a reality and give them the best gift of all.
To support us, you can make a donation and write your message of support, or fundraise for us.
Every penny we receive will go towards building the team their new home, with any funds raised over our target supporting the ongoing work of our Blood Donor Programme.
Donate & write your message
Every donation helps.
Read stories about our blood donors
Blood Donor Stories
Organise a Fundraiser
What will your idea be?
Find out about Blood Donation
Is your pet eligible to become a blood donor?
Meet our blood donors
Meet the cats and dogs in our blood donor family
Paws & Hooves Magazine
We celebrate 20 years of the Blood Donor team

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/search:
zero results

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/small-animal-referral-form:
Please provide the following details about the animal's owner:
Personal data is stored in accordance with the UK Data Protection Act 2018, and the GDPR, however please ensure that you have informed your client that you will be submitting personal data as part of the referral.
See Information and Data Processing at the RVC - a Guide for Veterinary Practices for information on your and our responsibilities to protect your client's personal data.
Please provide the following details about the animal patient being referred:
Please provide the following details about the referring vet/practice:
Please provide all the following details about your referral:
(Please select the service you wish to refer the animal to)
(including when the animal was last considered normal)
Please send any radiographs or other imaging in DICOM format to QMHReception@rvc.ac.uk .
This is the preferred format as all patient information, alongside the date and time of image acquisition, is included within the DICOM files.
If you do not send DICOM images, please send JPG but please ensure that the date of image acquisition is included.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/small-animal-advice-enquiry-form:
This is an advice enquiry form only ; if you require an urgent referral, or urgent advice, please call 01707 666399 (option 1) .
This form is for the referral of cats and dogs only.
For Exotics and Small Mammal advice please email exoticscamden@rvc.ac.uk.
Please help us to help you.
To enable us to efficiently respond to your advice enquiry, please complete the following information and submit this form to us.
Please be as concise as possible, providing only the pertinent information.
If we require more information, we will let you know.
Please note this service is free of charge and whilst we aim to call you in a timely manner, depending on our own hospital case load, this might not be possible.
If you would like to arrange a referral please contact us at 01707 666399 (and select option 2).
Thank you!
(Please select the service you wish to make the enquiry to)
( Including when the animal was last considered normal.
Please keep the description brief, maximum of around six sentences, thank you )
( Please keep the description brief, maximum of around six sentences, thank you )
Additionally if you would like to provide more information or photos, please upload one of the following:
Files should be under 20MB.
If you are having issues uploading a file, please send it to qmhreception@rvc.ac.uk with information to link it to the form submission.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/visiting:
We know you will be missing your pet whilst they are hospitalised with us, our passion is patient care and so we will keep you updated regularly by telephone.
We understand what a worrying time it will be for you while your pet is with us, you can rest assured that if your pets’ condition changes at any point we will be in touch without delay.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/emergency-referral:
RVC Small Animal Referrals offers the largest and best equipped emergency veterinary facility in the UK.
Our Emergency Referrals Service is in operation 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
It is staffed by a large team of vets and specialist nurses, who provide acute care.
We have a team of highly trained vets and veterinary nurses, who deal with dogs, cats and other small animal emergencies and are experienced in handling all types of cases.
Our small animal emergency clinic receives referral cases 24 hours a day, seven days a week
Please note that exotic and small mammal emergency referrals are normally seen at the RVC's veterinary practice in London - See Emergencies (Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital)
Your local vet will have discussed your pets case with one of our Emergency & Critical Care Vets.
From this conversation, an estimate cost of treatment will have been given to your vet to discuss with you.
Please ensure you have had this discussion with your local vet prior to making your way to us.
Upon arrival, please check in with the reception team, or if after midnight, please use the handset located in entry way to inform us you’ve arrived.
Your pet will then be triaged by a vet/vet nurse/final year vet student to assess their condition and take them into the hospital for stabilisation if required.
You should have received a link via SMS or email to complete our admission forms, please complete these and return promptly.
If you have not received this or do not have a mobile, please alert a member of the team who can provide you with a paper copy.
For life-threatening cases or patients requiring a trolley please use the Emergency Drop Off point , and alert reception.
(You can also inform our Security Team at the entrance barrier if your pet is in a life-threatening condition, they can then call ahead to anticipate your arrival.) Your pet will then be triaged by a vet/vet nurse/final year vet student to assess their condition and take them into the hospital for stabilisation if required.
Once your pet has been admitted into the hospital please then move to a standard parking space.
If your dog has travelled outside of the UK, please be aware of the current RVC guidelines on dogs with travel history here .
After the consultation your pet may be admitted to the hospital for treatment.
At this stage you will be required to pay a deposit before you leave.
If you are Self Funding you will be required to pay 50% of the estimated cost of treatment on admission of your pet and the remainder upon discharge.
If you have Insurance we can offer two ways of claiming.
We can process a ‘Direct claim’ for you, meaning that we will invoice your insurance company directly.
To do this, we will require a copy of your current insurance policy and any additional documents will be requested at this point, plus a deposit of £250 and a direct claim fee to take on the debt of £25.
If the costs exceed your insurance limit we will discuss a further deposit at this time also.
Alternatively, should you prefer to settle the invoice with us yourself first, we will still process your claim as an ‘Indirect claim’ , there will be no direct claim fee for this.
The insurance company will simply settle with you rather than us.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/out-of-hours-emergencies:
The RVC operates a 24-hour veterinary emergency veterinary clinic, for dog, cat and other pet owners whose regular vet practices have signed up to our scheme.
This is based at Queen Mother Hospital for Animals (QMHA) in Hertfordshire – Queen Mother Hospital for Animals, Hawkshead Lane, North Mymms, Hertfordshire AL9 7TA.
If you are a client of one of the local vet practices signed up to our Out-of-Hours pet emergency care service, or the RVC's veterinary practice in Camden, you will automatically be redirected when you call their number.
The service operates 7:00pm-8:30am weeknights, weekends and all bank-holidays.
Participating veterinary practices have arranged for the QMHA to provide a pet emergency service on their behalf.
This might be during your practice's normal working hours, or it might be at night, weekends or at any other time when your usual practice is closed.
In an emergency, call us on 01707 666399 .
Your call will be taken by one of the Out-of-Hours Emergency Care team, who will take your details and advise you on what to do next.
You will be given an indication of the relevant consultation fees.
We will triage your pet as soon as possible after arrival
Please enter via security who will direct you to the hospital, please park in the carpark directly outside.
Check in with the reception team or if after midnight please use the handset located in entry way to inform us you’ve arrived.
If you have not received this or do not have a mobile, please alert a member of the team who can provide a paper copy.
In most cases this is a consultation with a member of the veterinary team, during which a treatment plan and any further associated costs will be fully discussed.
We can offer two ways of claiming via your insurance, we can process a ‘Direct claim’ for you, meaning that we will invoice your insurance company directly.
To do this, we will require a copy of your current insurance policy and any required claim form to be completed by the policyholder, plus a deposit of £250 and a direct claim fee of £25.
Alternatively, should you prefer to settle the invoice with us yourself first, we will still process your claim as an ‘Indirect claim’ there will be no direct claim fee for this.
If your pet is not insured, you will be required to pay 50% of the estimated cost of treatment on admission of your pet and the remainder upon discharge.
Our online payment portal is available at: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/online-payment
Clients are advised to approach the Royal Veterinary College along Hawkshead Lane from the A1000.
From the M25, leave at Junction 24 and take the A111 (Southgate Road) to Potters Bar.
Follow the A1000 through Potters Bar, past the bus garage and after two sets of traffic lights, turn left onto Hawkshead Road and then fork left onto Hawkshead Lane.
From the A1 take the A1001 Eastbound and then take the A1000 Southbound and follow the signs to the Vet College (a right turn onto Hawkshead Road and then into Hawkshead Lane).

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/previous-referral:
If your pet is extremely unwell and you are worried that they may need emergency treatment, then please contact your local veterinary practice immediately so that you can be been seen as quickly as possible.
They can discuss treatment plans with us, with possible return to us once it is safe for your pet to make the journey, as required.
If your pet is not critically ill, please contact us on 01707 666399 (select option 5).
The receptionists will take your details and a brief overview of the situation and then either contact the veterinary team from the service that previously treated your pet or the emergency referral team depending on the day and time of your call.
A vet will call you back to discuss a plan for your pet.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/pet-euthanasia-at-RVC-referral-hospital:
We know that saying goodbye to a beloved pet is not something any pet owner likes to think about but sadly making the decision to euthanise (put to sleep) is often the kindest one.
This page has been created to inform you about the euthanasia process, what you should expect and how we can support you through the experience.
Euthanasia means “a painless death”.
It is one of the kindest and most selfless decisions you will ever make as it relieves pain and suffering.
The first step is the completion of the consent form.
We will give you some time to read this over, sign and spend time with your pet alone.
We appreciate that reading about and discussing euthanasia can be upsetting.
Please remember some elements of euthanasia can be hard to see and that your pet loses consciousness very quickly and so will be free from pain.
Normally both a vet and veterinary nurse are present when your pet is euthanised.
The vet will administer an overdose of a concentrated anaesthetic.
In most circumstances, euthanasia is a quick and peaceful procedure.
Some reflexes can occur after your pet has passed away and these are completely normal.
These can include:
These reflexes can be upsetting.
Please be assured that they are normal occurrences and your pet will not be conscious at this point in time.
The vet will listen with a stethoscope to ensure that their heart is no longer beating and confirm your pet has passed away.
It is your decision if you wish to be present during the process.
If you would like to say a prayer or take a keepsake, such as their collar, a lock of fur or a paw print impression, please let us know.
Our team will be sensitive to your needs.
Following euthanasia, as a pet owner it is your decision as to what happens next to your pet’s body.
The options available are:
* The RVC uses Peaceful Pets in Norfolk as a crematorium service provider.
If you would like to use a different provider - we ask that you liaise with them to make further arrangements for your pet.
Some families choose to donate their pet’s body to aid future education and research.
This helps both train future vets and supports advances in veterinary medicine.
Let us know if you wish to discuss any of these options further.
Your pet will be respectfully prepared and stored before being matched to RVC researchers and/or educators to help us treat animals in the future.
Please note that your pet’s body will be cremated, the ashes cannot be returned to you.
As a memorilisation gift, a brass leaf with your pet’s name will be displayed in our Hawkshead Campus garden.
A limited examination will be undertaken of your pet by RVC pathologists for teaching purposes.
This helps us determine the extent of their condition and you can be provided with a summary report of the findings on request.
Please by aware that the body cannot be released afterwards for home burial but the cremation options as above are still available.
Some owners like to leave a heartfelt tribute to their pet by adding a leaf onto our Memory Tree.
In exchange for a small donation to RVC’s Animal Care Trust, your beautifully engraved message will be displayed for a year* This Memory Tree is situated in the reception area of the hospital.
* You will be contacted every 12 months to confirm whether you wish to renew your leaf’s placement.
It is not possible for us to keep your pet for more than 48 hours so please contact us as soon as possible once you have decided what you would like to do.
You can reach us on 01707 666399 or qmhreception@rvc.ac.uk We can then make any necessary arrangements on your behalf.
It is normal to feel a mixture of emotions during this time.
Our veterinary staff expect this and will be empathetic to this.
Please do not be embarrassed if you are upset and please let us know what your wishes are during this difficult time.
We know it takes time to heal after the loss of a beloved pet, please talk to family and friends during this grieving period.
We have a dedicated team who can provide confidential support.
If you feel that it will help you or your other family members, please contact us on bereavementsupport@rvc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/payments-and-insurance:
The hospital is a self-financing and non-profit making institution.
During your initial (chargeable) consultation, estimated costs of recommended diagnostic and treatment options will be fully discussed with you prior to further actions being taken.
We accept debit and credit cards (excluding American Express)
For further information, please refer to the RVC’s Terms of Business: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/online-payment/terms-and-conditions
Paying online is an easy way for you to pay hospital invoices.
Please make sure that you fill in all the fields correctly so we can allocate the payment to the correct account
Pay Online
https://www.rvc.ac.uk/online-payment/terms-and-conditions This facility is NOT available to owners who have pets who are admitted as in-patients.
A deposit of 50% of the estimated bill will be required from you at the time that your pet is admitted to the hospital and with each additional estimate increase unless you are insured (see below).
You are responsible for full settlement of your account at the time your pet is discharged from the hospital.
Please speak to us to discuss what paperwork is required to claim the costs back.
These insurance documents must be emailed to qmhaccounts@rvc.ac.uk prior to your appointment or within 24hrs of admission.
We will not be able to process your claim unless we are in receipt of ALL required documents, and you will be responsible for full payment.
We are happy to liaise with the insurance company about recovery of fees on your behalf, but if, for any reason, the insurance company does not pay the entire amount, you will be responsible for outstanding balances.
We do not offer payment plans.
INDIRECT INSURANCE CLAIMS - This means if your pet is insured and you are initially paying the immediate costs.
A deposit of 50% of the estimated bill will be required from you at the time that your pet is admitted to the hospital.
Payment will be expected in full at the time of collection of your pet; this will enable us to process your indirect claim.
We aim to process claim forms promptly so that insurance companies can reimburse you swiftly.
Please be advised that it can take several weeks.
DIRECT INSURANCE CLAIMS -  This means claims are to be paid directly to the RVC by your insurance company as agreed by our Accounts team.
On admission, a non-refundable admin fee of £25 (including VAT) is payable for processing your claim.
At the time of setting up a Direct Claim our Front of House team will require £275.00 .
This is a £250.00 deposit to sit on your account to cover any insurance shortfalls and a non-refundable £25.00 administration fee.
If you have already paid a £125.00 deposit to secure your appointment, we will request the remaining £150 on the day of your consultation when our Accounts team set up your Direct claim.
Please ensure that you have an initial claim made with your regular GP/Primary Care vet if applicable.
You are responsible for liaising with, and providing any requested information by, your insurance company.
If an insurance claim is not settled within 60 days, we will require you to settle your account in full.
Your case report for your referring GP/Primary Care vet will be forwarded with the claim insurance company at their request.
If you wish to obtain a pre-authorisation ahead of your appointment please be aware this MUST be requested a minimum of 7 working days prior to your appointment.
For emergency and out of hour appointments a pre-authorisation may not be possible so please speak to the Accounts team to discuss this.
A pre-authorisation is NOT required if you have previously claimed for the condition/investigation in your current policy year.
Instead, please contact your insurance company to confirm the remaining limit left for this condition ahead of your appointment.
Not all insurance company’s accept pre-authorisation requests so this must be confirmed with them verbally, they will also advise which documents are required to process this.
It can take 24-48hrs to submit a pre-authorisation after the request and the majority take 3-5 working days to process.
Please be aware that the accounts team may not always be able to fulfil your request.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/privacy-statement:
The RVC will use your personal data to carry out the necessary tasks for administration and management of your interactions with our clinical services.
This is likely to include your contact details, payment details, and details of your insurance provision so we can carry out clinical work at your request.
It may also include a record of your consent to be contacted by the RVC for a range of purposes which may include: appointment or vaccination reminders, events or clinical services relevant to the care of your companion, working or production animal, requests to take part in research studies in support of veterinary medicine or communications from the Animal Care Trust which is a charity that supports our activities.
In certain circumstances we may be obliged to share your information with third parties such insurance companies, debt collection agencies, microchip registration companies, the RSPCA, the police or the courts.
Where we are processing your personal data for the purposes of the clinical services we are providing to you we do so on the legal bases of contract.
Where we are processing your data for other purposes for which we have sought your consent (e.g.
marketing, research) then the legal bases for processing that data is the consent that you have provided.
Full details can be provided to you in writing or found at: RVC Client Privacy Notice
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) is committed to providing clinical services of the highest standard and so we welcome customer communication and feedback.
If you have a concern or are dissatisfied with our service, please contact us as soon as possible.
We will proactively work with you to resolve your concerns.
You can contact us in a number of ways:
Face-to-face:
Telephone:
In writing:
QmhaCustomerCare@rvc.ac.uk
To help us investigate your concern, please provide us with the following information:
The senior member of the team allocated your concern will conduct a thorough investigation, reviewing clinical records and documentation and speaking to the members of staff involved as appropriate.
This allows us to fully understand the situation.
We aim to provide you with the outcome of this investigation in writing within 28 days.
If additional time is required to complete our investigation, we will advise you of this within the 28 day timeframe.
We may not always provide the answer you are looking for, but we will make sure we offer a clear explanation for our decision.
We will acknowledge your email or letter within five working days.
If you are dissatisfied with our response, you can ask The Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) for an independent review.
The RCVS register veterinary surgeons and veterinary nurses to practise in the UK, and regulate their educational, ethical and clinical standards.
The RCVS has a responsibility to investigate all concerns raised with them about veterinary surgeons and registered veterinary nurses (RVNs).
The contact details for the RCVS are:
Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons Belgravia House, 62-64 Horseferry Road, London SW1P 2AF
+44 (0)20 7202 0789
animalowners.rcvs.org.uk/concerns/
The RCVS also offers a mediation service:
+44 (0)34 5 040 5834
enquiries@vetmediation.co.uk
animalowners.rcvs.org.uk/concerns/veterinary-client-mediation-service/

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/for-pet-owners/terms-of-business:
From 6th August 2025
Our goal is to provide quality health care to all pets in a timely manner.
No-shows, late arrivals, and cancellations impact our overall clinical service provision.
Please be aware of our policy regarding appointment deposits and cancellations.
Written prescriptions are available on request.
You may obtain Prescription Only Medicines, Category V, (POM Vs) from your Veterinary Surgeon OR ask for a prescription and obtain these medicines from another Veterinary Surgeon or a Pharmacy.
Your Veterinary Surgeon is only permitted to prescribe POM Vs for animals under his or her care.
A prescription may not be appropriate if your animal is an in-patient or immediate treatment is necessary.
You will be informed, on request, of the price of any medicine that may be prescribed for your animal.
The general policy of this hospital is to re-examine a pet that requires repeat prescriptions every three months, but this may vary with individual circumstances.
Non-veterinary licensed medications may be prescribed for your pet.
We will ask you to sign for consent at the time of discharge.
The British Veterinary Association Code of Practice on Medicines (2000) states: "Once stock has been dispensed, it should not be accepted back into the dispensary.
No returned goods should be offered for resale because there may have been problems with storage conditions beyond the veterinarian’s control."
This means that we cannot give refunds for returned medications as we are obliged to dispose of them.
We are happy to safely dispose of your unused medication if it was purchased from the RVC.
If you have any queries concerning payments, please do not hesitate to contact us:
The Queen Mother Hospital for Animals 01707 666399 between 8.30am and 7.00pm Monday to Friday.
Please note that all telephone calls to and from the Queen Mother Hospital for Animals may be recorded for training and monitoring purposes in order to improve our services.
Attending your appointment will be considered as acceptance of the above.
Data Protection Statement: The Royal Veterinary College complies with the UK Data Protection Act 2018 and the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
Our full Privacy Notice can be viewed at https://rvc.uk.com/client-data-use-policy If you do not wish to receive further information about services and events offered by the RVC and its charities, please contact our Reception team.
You may also contact us this way if you wish to have access to modify or correct your information.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/publications:
The latest editions of some of the RVC's publications.
Undergraduate and International Prospectuses
Strategic Plan 2022-2026
RVC Clinical Services Newsletter - Published three times a year
Eclipse - RVC Alumni Magazine - Published every Autumn
RVC4Life Alumni Newsletter
Services for the Business and Scientific Community (PDF)
The RVC ceased publishing Annual Reviews in 2012/13, but old issues are still available in the Annual Review Archive .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/mission-and-strategy:
The RVC is committed to the three pillars of its mission:
Above all, we seek to push back the frontiers of what is possible in veterinary medicine and its associ­ated sciences.
Our Strategic Plan , published in early 2022, outlines our path for the next four years.
This plan identifies activities to which we will commit, the objectives on which we will focus and the broad metrics by which we expect to be judged.
View the RVC Strategic Plan 2022-2026
This strategy lays the foundations to support our strategy for Teaching, Learning and Assessment and the next version of the RVC Strategic Plan in order for the RVC to continue to provide innovative teaching and learning for its community of students wherever they are studying.
This strategy recognises that blended learning interconnects with many areas of the RVC and that no strategy can be implemented without an understanding of how these areas will be affected.
Its implementation is aligned to the Professional Services Division (PSD) operational plan, our Access and Participation plan (APP), to strategies for the development of our Infrastructure (Digital and Physical), and to our Data and Digital Technology Strategy.
All strategies at the RVC are underpinned by a commitment to sustainable wellbeing as a guiding principle.
Blended Learning Strategy (pdf)
The RVC's Clinical Mission is to be a leading international authority in animal health and welfare by innovating, advancing, and providing the highest standards of clinical practice.
Our Clinical Mission sits as one of the three core, and interlinked, mission areas of the RVC alongside education and research/innovation.
View the Clinical Strategy 2024-2029
This strategy aims to combine RVC’s data and digital technology in a single unified strategy and align them with RVC’s business context and strategic objectives.
It proposes a cohesive approach to data and digital technology, governance, and management across the RVC, through the introduction of key principles informing how we work with data and digital technology.
View the RVC Data and Digital Technology Strategy 2024-2029
Our Estates Strategy is a core part of the RVC’s Strategic Plan .
The Infrastructure Services Directorate (ISD) integrates people, place and process within our built environment to improve the campus experience of our students and staff and the productivity of our RVC businesses.
View the RVC Estates Strategy 2023-2030
Our Environmental Sustainability Strategy outlines how we are developing robust plans to meet our Net Zero target before 2040.
It highlights how the RVC are going to make a positive impact in key areas to meet the unprecedented global challenges posed by climate and wider issues of sustainability
View the Environmental Sustainability Strategy 2022-2024
Our Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Strategy is a core part of the RVC’s Strategic Plan.
Our core mission is to create a diverse, inclusive, caring and compassionate university, where every individual - regardless of their background, identity or experience, feels valued, respected and empowered.
We are committed to fostering a culture of equity, dismantling barriers to access and success, and to promoting diverse perspectives that enrich all our activities.
View the Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2024-2026
The RVC’s Global Strategy is an opportunity to challenge ourselves and test the boundaries of what we can achieve in and for the world, ensuring we do this through coordinated cross university operational plans, using a determined risk framework and in support of our commitments to principles of EDI, wellbeing, environmental and financial sustainability.
View the RVC Global Strategy
The Learning, Teaching, Assessment and Student Experience (LTASE) Strategy outlines what will be necessary to help achieve the goals highlighted in RVC's Strategic Plan.
View the Learning, Teaching, Assessment and Student Experience Strategy 2024-2028
The RVC’s research mission is to create, communicate and apply scientific knowledge in order to improve the health and welfare of animals and people and the environments in which they live.
View the RVC Research and Innovation Strategy 2024-2029
To maintain a high-quality student experience, it is essential that all students have opportunities to reflect on and evaluate their experiences of study and the wider service offering.
To facilitate this, we use a variety of mechanisms with a view to learning from and responding to their feedback individually, collectively and through their representatives.
Student Voice Strategy (pdf)

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/accreditation:
The RVC is one of the few veterinary schools in the world that hold accreditations from the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) in the UK, the European Association of Establishments for Veterinary Education (ESEVT of the European Association of Establishments for Veterinary Education) in the EU, and the Council on Education of the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) (probationary) in the USA and Canada.
Furthermore, RCVS accreditation ensures RVC veterinary graduates are licensed to work in Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, as well as South Africa.
In the case of our nursing courses, we are accredited in the UK by the RCVS and in the EU by the Accreditation Committee for Veterinary Nursing Education (ACOVENE), and our biological science programme is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology.
Please refer to detailed information in the links below for information regarding accreditations specific to each course.
You will be entitled to work as a veterinarian in the UK as soon as you have earned your BVetMed degree and, have registered as a Member of the RCVS .
Following the UK’s departure from the EU graduates seeking to work in EU member states, with the exception of Ireland, should consult the regulatory authority of the country in which they wish to pursue employment.
The Federation of Veterinarians in Europe maintains a useful list of contacts here .
Reciprocal arrangements between the RCVS and the Australasian Veterinary Boards Council (AVBC), the Veterinary Council of Ireland (VCI), and the South African Veterinary Council (SAVC), allows BVetMed Graduates to practice in Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and South Africa without requiring any further qualifications, visa requirements notwithstanding.
The Council on Education (CoE) of the AVMA recognises the BVetMed degree as equivalent to those awarded by veterinary colleges in North America.
Some major veterinary employers based in the USA and Canadas recruit actively among our final year students.
If, after graduating, you intend to work in North America, for most veterinary jobs you will be required to have sat and passed the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE) as well as satisfying state/provincial veterinary board requirements where relevant – just as you would if graduating from any North American school, and notwithstanding any visa requirements.
Passing the NAVLE does not guarantee a work visa in the USA or Canada.
The RVC currently holds probationary AVMA accreditation status and is actively seeking to regain full accreditation which it must do by April 2026.
The process of accreditation and the consequences of losing accreditation are outlined on the AVMA website .
Should an international school lose accreditation, indications from the CoE are that graduates of that school who have yet to pass the NAVLE would be required to qualify for the NAVLE by alternative pathways until accreditation is regained.
RCVS (UK) and EAEVE (European) accreditations would be unaffected should AVMA accreditation be lost.
Pass rates for the NAVLE at the time of graduation are an important aspect of AVMA accreditation.
In 2023/24, the most recent year for which figures are available, our pass rate was 60%.
The pass rate required by the CoE Standard for Outcomes Assessment is 80%.
For further information on the NAVLE, please visit www.icva.net/navle .
The RVC is committed to ensuring ongoing support for our students wishing to take the NAVLE and provides 12-week NAVLE Support Programmes to help students to pass the NAVLE exam , starting in the penultimate year and leading up to each exam sit.
The NAVLE Support Programme provides:
From 2025 the ICVA Veterinary Education Assessment (VEA) will be used with students in the penultimate year of their programme to help them get used to the test taking environment for the NAVLE and to help them approach their study for the NAVLE more effectively.
For current students and staff: The NAVLE area in the Student Hub on LEARN has a full range of FAQs about RVC’s accreditation status and about our NAVLE Support Programme (sign-in required) or write to navle@rvc.ac.uk
What is AVMA accreditation?
What does it mean that the RVC is on probationary accreditation status with the AVMA?
The RVC currently holds probationary status and is actively seeking to regain full accreditation which it must do by April 2026.
The consequences of losing accreditation are outlined on the AVMA website.
Should a school lose accreditation, graduates of that school who have yet to pass the NAVLE would be required to qualify for the NAVLE by alternative pathways.
RCVS (UK) and EAEVE (Europe) accreditations would be unaffected should AVMA accreditation be lost.
Pass rates for the NAVLE are an important aspect of accreditation and the only one of eleven standards in which the RVC is currently deficient.
In the event of the RVC losing AVMA accreditation – what effect would this have on students currently enrolled on the BVetMed intending to practise in North America?
Until such time as accreditation is regained, indications from the CoE are that affected students would need to seek one of the alternative NAVLE pathways which the RVC would help to facilitate.
We continue to engage with the CoE to clarify how the process of regaining accreditation would be managed, including associated timings.
Until such time as we have this clarity, and whilst we remain accredited, we cannot detail what arrangements could be made for affected students (who are not yet enrolled) nor the associated support it would be appropriate for the RVC to provide.
We remind you that this would not affect any of our other accreditations.
If I join the RVC, would I be able to transfer to another vet school?
Yes, provided another school agrees to provide a place.
To discuss transfers, you can contact us at NAVLE@rvc.ac.uk
When will we know if the RVC has regained full accreditation?
The earliest we will have confirmation will be in the Spring of 2026.
However, it is possible that a final outcome may not be known until significantly later.
Can I defer this year’s offer?
The RVC considers requests for deferrals in exceptional circumstances.
Any requests must be made in writing and will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
We would not consider probationary accreditation status to be an exceptional circumstance.
Any applicant deferring their entry to September 2026 will be expected to meet all terms of their offer, including payment of their deposit, by 31 August 2025.
I deferred my offer from last year.
What should I do?
Will you refund my deposit?
If you no longer wish to attend the RVC, we can withdraw your acceptance and are able to refund your deposit in these circumstances.
Please contact the Admissions Office ( admissions@rvc.ac.uk ) to discuss this further.
I have accepted the RVC offer but want to change my mind.
What do I do?
If you no longer wish to attend the RVC, you can withdraw your acceptance.
Please contact the Admissions Office ( admissions@rvc.ac.uk ) so that we can advise on the next steps to do this.
If you wish to take up an offer from a different school, we would advise you contact that school in the first instance.
I applied through VMCAS and need to respond to my offer by 15 April, is it possible to get an extension on this decision?
Yes, please contact the Admissions Office ( admissions@rvc.ac.uk ) to discuss this further.
I applied via VMCAS, my deposit was due by 15 April.
Can I hold off paying it whilst I consider this information?
You do not need to pay your deposit to accept your offer of a place.
If you have already fulfilled your offer conditions, we recommend you pay your deposit as soon as possible; ideally by 31st May 2025 so that you can start your visa application as early as possible.
If your offer is conditional on academic results or other conditions, then you should not pay your deposit until you have met all these conditions.
What are you doing to remedy the situation?
As outlined here we are fully committed to addressing our current deficiency in Standard 11 and regaining full accreditation.
For more information see the AVMA website .
We continue to actively pursue clarification of potential arrangements for enrolled and future students.
Where do I direct any further questions?
For prospective students please email acq@rvc.ac.uk
For current students please email NAVLE@rvc.ac.uk
The BVetMed degree underwent a joint professional body accreditation visit in November 2018.
The RVC prepared a Self Evaluation Report for the November 2018 accreditation visit and the visit reports of each professional body can be found on their webpages via web-links provided below:
Please note that the BVSc degree is not accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) nor by EAEVE (European Association of Establishments for Veterinary Education).
Our FdSc and years one to three of the BSc Veterinary Nursing courses are accredited in the UK by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) and in the EU by the Accreditation Committee for Veterinary Nursing Education (ACOVENE).
These bodies set the standard for the delivery of veterinary nursing education in the United Kingdom and the European Union.
For further information about the RCVS accreditation, see https://www.rcvs.org.uk/setting-standards/accrediting-primary-qualifications/accrediting-veterinary-nursing-qualifications/
Our Graduate and Postgraduate Certificates in Advanced Veterinary Nursing in:
Anaesthesia & Analgesia
Emergency & Critical Care
Medical Nursing
Are accredited in the UK by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) which means RCVS Registered Veterinary Nurses on these programmes have the option to gain a Certificate in Advanced Veterinary Nursing qualification awarded by the RCVS.
Candidates applying for and enrolling with the RCVS CertAVN in Medical Nursing, Emergency & Critical Care or Anaesthesia & Analgesia must meet the specific requirements as set out by the RCVS, to include:
Be on the current RCVS Register of Veterinary Nurses.
Have evidence of sufficient CPD from the point of entry onto the RCVS Register for Veterinary Nurses (in line with the RCVS requirements) prior to registration for the RCVS CertAVN.
During their studies, be employed in, or have agreed access to placement in, a suitable professional environment, tailored to their area of focused study.
Before commencing studies, enrol with the RCVS specifying the accredited university or awarding organisation where they plan to undertake their studies and the title of the qualification.
Registration for the RCVS CertAVN will be valid for up to five years.
Further information: www.rcvs.org.uk
Our Biological Science programmes are accredited by the Royal Society of Biology.
This symbol of excellence is highly regarded by employers and demonstrates our ability to develop your skills and expertise throughout your course.
Not only does this mean you will gain an in-depth understanding of the subject, but that you also will have the opportunity to contribute to advancements in science through research projects.
The following courses received Accreditation by the Royal Society of Biology in January 2021 for five years following an independent and rigorous assessment:
The following courses have been advanced accredited by the Royal Society of Biology in February 2021 for five years following an independent and rigorous assessment
The reports can be found here .
For more information see www.rsb.org.uk
The Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) quality assures veterinary degrees at UK vet schools by means of specific accreditation standards.
Graduates from accredited schools join the RCVS register as members allowing them to practise veterinary surgery in the UK.
Aberystwyth University, the Royal Veterinary College and the RCVS are working together to ensure that the new degree meets these standards and that graduates will be eligible for registration.
Under the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966, veterinary degrees must have a “recognition order” from the Privy Council before graduates can automatically be eligible for registration with the RCVS.
The Privy Council will take advice from RCVS on this.
The process takes a number of years as full approval cannot be considered until after the RCVS undertakes a formal inspection of the full course and its standards in 2026 when the first cohort of students will have completed their degrees.
Until that time, both institutions are liaising regularly with the RCVS to ensure that progress towards accreditation is maintained.
Should any unforeseen issues arise, the Veterinary Surgeons Act includes a provision to help ensure that those completing their final exams in an as-yet-unapproved degree may still be allowed to register, in that the Privy Council may invite the RCVS to set examinations for any students attending a non-approved UK veterinary degree course, or alternatively appoint RCVS External Examiners to oversee the standard of the final year examinations.
Students who pass the RCVS-controlled examinations would then be able to register with the RCVS and practise as veterinary surgeons in the UK, regardless of the outcome of the degree’s accreditation process.
This is in line with the arrangements for any new veterinary degree programmes.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/tef:
The Royal Veterinary College has been rated Silver in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
This is underpinned by a Gold rating in Student Outcomes and Silver in Student Experience.
The Office for Students (OfS) describes the rating as follows:
"Typically, the experience students have at The Royal Veterinary College and the outcomes it leads to are very high quality.
This provider's student experience rating is Silver, which means the student academic experience is typically very high quality.
This provider's student outcomes rating is Gold, which means student outcomes are typically outstanding".
The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) is a national scheme run by the Office for Students (OfS) that aims to encourage higher education providers to improve and deliver excellence in the areas that students care about the most: teaching, learning and achieving positive outcomes from their studies.
The ratings reflect the extent to which a university or college delivers an excellent experience and outcomes for its mix of undergraduate students and across the range of its undergraduate courses.
The TEF also encourages universities and colleges to continually improve their teaching standards and student support services.
TEF ratings apply to the University overall and are valid for four years, from 2023 to 2027.
View the RVC's provider and student submission, and the panel's outcome statement →
Find out more about TEF ratings for the sector →

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/our-departments:
The Royal Veterinary College's academic departments reflect the many challenges facing society today and ensures that our research, teaching and clinical activities continue to innovate and lead the way in veterinary medicine and science.
The RVC's Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences (CBS) is responsible for integrated teaching and research in various basic science disciplines including anatomy, biochemistry, molecular and cellular biology, pharmacology, genetics and physiology.
Staff are based at both campuses.
The department’s focus is to advance understanding of animal biology from the molecular to whole animal level and within this environment to train undergraduate and postgraduate students.
This focus enables us to provide students with the cognitive skills and understanding of animal structure and function required for careers as veterinarians, scientists and veterinary paraprofessionals.
The department’s research interests, which feed into the RVC-wide research themes, includes long-standing international strengths in a number of areas including biomechanics, musculoskeletal biology, cardiovascular biology, reproduction, development and pharmacology.
The department is committed to the provision of training of the highest standards and to the development of innovative methodologies.
The Department of Clinical Science and Services brings together research, teaching and clinical care to deliver innovative veterinary medicine - applied science in the care of companion animals - be they large (RVC Equine) or small (Queen Mother Hospital for Animals at Hawkshead and Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital in Camden).
A reciprocal relationship exists between research and clinical activity; clinical services are driven by and input to our research, providing the benefit of evidence-based veterinary medicine and expert opinion with an international reputation.
An average of 180 research papers are published each year and almost 30 PhDs are currently in progress supervised by academics in CSS.
The Department contributes extensively to undergraduate and post-graduate teaching on all of the RVC’s veterinary and bioscience programmes - this includes the Bachelors in Veterinary Medicine (BVetMed), a dedicated Centre for Veterinary Nursing whose graduates are registered with the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, and clinical internships and residencies for 79 veterinarians across three teaching hospitals.
In addition, three other units within the Department play a leading role in educational development:
Collectively, our three hospitals see more than 32,000 animals per year.
They employ more than 360 people including over 120 Registered Veterinary Nurses (RVNs) and over 80 veterinarians, fifty of whom are veterinary specialists recognised by the RCVS
The Department of Pathobiology and Population Sciences (PPS) is home to academic staff with a broad spectrum of professional interests and networks.
Expertise within the Department encompasses production animal (also known as farm animal, food animal or livestock) medicine, animal welfare, epidemiology, economics and veterinary public health, clinical and anatomic pathology, virology, bacteriology, immunology and parasitology.
That broad spectrum of expertise enables Departmental researchers to consider disease processes from the molecular and cellular level through to the whole animal and to animal populations.
The effects of disease on welfare and the impact of disease on human-animal interactions and human health are fostered by this multidisciplinary approach.
The Department also provides extensive undergraduate and post-graduate teaching (including residency programs in pathology and epidemiology) and runs a large diagnostic service for clinical colleagues within the Royal Veterinary College and further afield.
Departmental staff work at both the Hawkshead and Camden campuses and at a number of sites across the UK.
Specialist consultancy advice is provided on a national and international basis.
This department was created in January 2017 by the merger of the departments of Pathology and Pathogen Biology (PPB), and Production and Population Health (PPH).
The Professional Services Department (PSD) plays a central role in ensuring the Royal Veterinary College functions efficiently and the right infrastructure is in place to provide the best experience for students and staff.
The department, which operates across both campuses and employs around 250 staff, is led by the Chief Operating Officer, Ian Darker.
There are seven Professional Service Department (PSD) Teams:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/financial-information:
Please see the menu to the left for our Annual Report and Financial Statements and other financial information about the Royal Veterinary College.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/the-rvc/environmental-sustainability:
The Royal Veterinary College recognises the unprecedented global challenges posed by the climate and wider issues of sustainability and we need to strengthen our commitment and action across the RVC.
Our Environmental Sustainability Vision is that the RVC makes a positive impact through continually improving our environmental sustainability performance and embedding sustainability considerations into decision making throughout the organisation this is reflected in our Environmental Sustainability Policy .
We have committed to become Net Zero by 2040 and are undertaking work to develop our plans to bring this date forward.
This work includes:
Our new Environmental Sustainability Strategy was published in 2023.
It focuses on 7 key areas:
Energy and Carbon
The RVC have a decarbonisation plan in place.
We have started to decarbonise heating in 8 of our buidlings thanks to a grant of nealy £3,000,000 awarded to us through the Public Sector Decarbonisation Fund.
Biodiversty
The RVC have a Biodiversity plan in place which was published in 2022.
A quarterly Land Management Group meeting monitors the progress.
We take part in the Farming for Carbon and Nature programme.
Partnership and Engagement
The RVC runs environmental engagement programmes for both staff and students.
The RVC have been running Green Impact since 2023 for staff and Student Switch Off since 2022 for students.
Sutainable Procurement
The RVC are affiliated to Electronics Watch through our membership of LUPC .
Travel
The RVC have a travel plan in place which sets out targets for increasing sustainable travel.
Audits
The RVC completed a travel survey in 2024.
Energy and waste are monitored monthly through our dashboard.
Contact
To find out more, please contact Rachel Ward, Environmental Sustainability Manager rjward@rvc.ac.uk or Senara Gamage, Environmental Sustainability Assistant sgamage@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/about-us/how-to-find-us:
Camden Road (0.4 miles; approximately 8 min walk) Kings Cross (0.5 miles; approximately 10min walk) St Pancras (0.5 miles; approximately 10min)
The nearest underground train stations are:
Our clients are predominantly from the Central North London area but we also have many from further afield – especially for our Exotic Pet specialist vet team.
Due to our outstanding reputation, many clients travel further so they can access the high level of skills and expertise from our RVC veterinary team.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/about-us:
RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital is a leading London veterinary practice and animal hospital based in London Borough of Camden.
We are one of the oldest vet clinics in north London (established in 1932).
As well as being renowned as the Camden vet practice, we are preferred choice vet in Kings Cross, Islington, Highbury and the surrounding areas.
We provide vet services to all types of pets and small animals such as:
We offer the full range of services that you would expect from your local vets – and a whole lot more!
See:
When you bring your pet to the RVC vet practice you are getting all the benefits of a caring local vet team – and access to the RVC’s world-class expertise.
Our staff have special interests such as medicine, surgery, dentistry, diagnostic imaging, and exotic species.
This means that – whatever type of pet you have – you will receive expert treatment by our caring vets and vet nurses.
As part of the RVC family – we benefit from the RVC’s world-leading knowledge, new research and exceptional skill base.
As an RVC teaching hospital, final year students participate in consultations under close supervision of experienced vets.
This means that, as well as getting exceptional care, you and your pet will be assisting us to develop future vets
We are also a leading centre for vet nurse training.
Student Veterinary nurses also gain essential experience by working alongside and being supervised by our registered veterinary nurses Our highly trained and experienced veterinary nurses play a key role at our London vet practice and animal hospital.
All of our vet nurses are registered and they hold accreditation as a clinical coach.
Some vet nurses also hold advanced nursing qualifications.
Our exceptionally high standards are reflected in the awards and accreditations achieved by our hard-working and compassionate team – so you know your pet is in great hands!
Jean Sainsbury, a journalist and publisher, was a notable benefactor of the Royal Veterinary College.
She made many donations to support the college during her life.
She sadly died in 2007, and in 2010 the trustees of the Jean Sainsbury Animal Welfare Trust made a substantial one-off donation towards the complete refurbishment of the RVC Beaumont Hospital in Camden.
The hospital was then renamed the RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital in her memory.
Thanks to the generosity of the Jean Sainsbury Animal Welfare Trust , we also have a small, subsidised care fund for regular clients on benefits/low incomes who are unable to afford the cost of their pet’s treatment.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/about-us/get-in-touch:
If your matter is not urgent, you can email us at: beaumont@rvc.ac.uk .
You can also register your pet(s) with us online using this Registration Form .
Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital 4 Royal College St London NW1 0TU
Our RVC out of hours emergency vet service is based in near Potters Bar at the Queen Mother Hospital for Animals, which can be contacted on 01707 666399.
We also work in conjunction with Vet 24 in Belsize Park: 0870 873 4576, who have an out-of-hours service.
You can also follow us on Facebook to keep updated with our latest news, pet healthcare tips and events at: www.facebook.com/bsah-rvc

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/about-us/facilities:
The space and facilities at our hospital are outstanding.
We are a fully accredited veterinary hospital under the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) Practice Standards Scheme and as part of a world-leading veterinary school we know how important it is to use the best available veterinary technology and equipment.
Our specially designed reception has separate waiting rooms for cats, dogs and exotics to ensure your pet can settle and relax before seeing the vet or veterinary nurse.
All of our client areas are wheelchair accessible and the waiting room has a client toilet that is accessible for all.
All consulting rooms are air conditioned and fitted with hearing loops.
Seating is available for clients.
Most pets are examined on the examination tables which are available in every room, but larger dogs may be examined on the floor.
Pet treats are on hand to ensure your pet enjoys visiting the vet!
Our hospital has completely separate wards for cats, dogs, small mammals, ferrets and reptiles/birds.
Each ward is specially designed for that species and each pet has their own private space to rest in.
Our devoted team of ward nurses provide dedicated care for every patient, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, under the direction of our experienced veterinary surgeons.
A completely separate isolation unit is available so that pets with contagious illness can be cared for without compromising the safety of other patients.
Our surgical suite boasts four spacious and well-equipped operating theatres, a dedicated induction area (where pets are carefully given their anaesthetic), and its own day wards for patients to recover peacefully from their procedures.
The surgical suite is maintained as a dedicated sterile area, which may only be entered by staff wearing specific theatre dress.
Positive pressure ventilation is used to ensure the highest standards of sterility.
Each theatre benefits from full monitoring and anaesthetic equipment.
The practice has general and dental Xray; ultrasound; endoscopy; and laparoscopic (keyhole) surgery equipment.
These facilities are used to look at the inside of the body to help our vets diagnose illness or pregnancy.
Our hospital has its own in-house laboratory for analysing routine blood, skin and urine samples rapidly on-site.
For more complex tests we are able to send blood, urine and tissue samples to external laboratories such as the specialist diagnostic laboratory at at our sister site, the Queen Mother Hospital.
Results are always reported back to your pet's usual veterinary surgeon at the Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/price-list:
Fees (from 1st August 2025):
The Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital is a non-profit veterinary hospital which exists to provide a high standard of veterinary care to the pets and pet owners in our community; at the same time as educating the veterinary surgeons and nurses of the future.
The fees we charge allow our hospital to continue its important work.
We offer many of our services at a discounted rate for those in receipt of certain benefits - please contact our Reception team for details.
The pricing for our standard vet consultations is based on 20 minutes of vet time (40 minutes for extended consultations).
However, please allow an extra 10-15 minutes on site to allow for student teaching time which we hope is of interest to you, but is, of course, not charged for
Our standard fees can be found below:
Consultation with vet (includes on-site and telephone consultations for new conditions, rechecks, health checks,
post-operative checks)
Extended consultation with vet (all species) - our team will advise you if this is required
Nurse consultation (all species) – includes nail clipping, anal gland expression,
administration of medication such as Librela injections (medication itself charged separately)
Urgent consultation fee for cats and dogs (no standard appointments available, booked onto emergency vet list)
Priority urgent consultation fee for exotics (no standard appointments available, vet has to be called out of other procedures to attend)
£87
£132
Sunday consultation (all species)
Canine neutering
*pets not seen at the hospital within the previous 6 months may require a health check prior to booking
- a health check is charged at £58 (not included in prices listed below)
Feline neutering
Rabbit neutering
* Excluding cremation
The above list is not exhaustive.
The Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital offers a wide range of therapeutic, diagnostic, and surgical procedures.
The exact nature and cost of these will depend on your pet's individual needs.
Prior to receiving care, owners of all pets being admitted to the hospital receive an estimate of the anticipated costs.
We recognise that costs are not always easy to predict when an animal is first presented, as further investigation and diagnostics can alter treatment plans.
However, we ensure that clients are kept up to date with any changes in the cost of their pet's care as investigations proceed, and involve them in each stage of decision-making so that our veterinary surgeons and owners can agree the best course of action for every pet.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/services:
At the RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital, you’ll be able to access first-class pet advice on how to keep your pet fit and healthy.
Our range of vet services is designed to help your pet through every stage of your pet’s life.
Find out more information about each service by clicking through or asking any member of our team.
To use our services - please register your pet with us first - either online or by phone.
We have appointments available seven days a week and are open until late on weekdays.
General practice vet services include:
In addition to our highly skilled onsite team, we have direct access to 14 other highly specialist vet services at the Queen Mother Hospital for Animals in Hertfordshire – Europe's largest small animal hospital.
This means that if your pet has a complex issue it is escalated quickly.
As we are part of one of the world’s leading vet schools, we have access to extremely advanced facilities.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/practice-services/routine-pet-healthcare:
Here at the RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital, we offer a comprehensive range of pet healthcare services.
As your pet grows, the type of healthcare it needs will evolve and change.
We are on hand to help you manage your pet's changing healthcare needs every step of the way.
Our routine healthcare services include:
In addition, we provide support services such as:
You'll find everything you need from our vet practice, with the added reassurance that we are part of the RVC family with access to advanced techniques and services - some of which are based right here in Camden!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/services/pet-health-plans:
At RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital, we want to make preventative and routine pet health care easy and affordable.
We passionately believe that prevention is better than cure.
Early diagnosis of health problems will help your pet to live a long and healthy life and prevent unnecessary suffering.
We now have a pet health care plan which enables you to spread the cost of your pet's regular healthcare needs throughout the year paying monthly by direct debit.
It covers the regular treatments your pet needs throughout life, such as vaccinations, flea and worm treatments and regular health checks.
Extra benefits of the plan include discounts on food and other routine treatments your pet might need.
It is designed to help you financially manage your pet’s ongoing health - saving your time and worry.
Our pet health plan is not pet insurance.
It covers the regular and routine treatments your pet needs throughout life.
It will not cover the costs of emergencies, accidents, illness, diseases and ongoing conditions and we therefore would recommend you invest in pet insurance.
Cat £19 per month Small dog (under 10kg) £18 per month Medium dog (10-25kg) £21.50 per month Large dog (25kg - 40kg) £24.00 per month Extra large dog (40-65kg) £30 per month
Cat £188.68 annual saving Small dog (under 10kg) £150.16 annual saving Medium dog (10-25kg) £191.56 annual saving Large dog (25kg - 40kg) £278.56 annual saving Extra large dog (40-65kg) £328.36 annual saving
You can sign up online here
Join our Pet Health Plan today
Please contact our friendly front-of-house staff if you have any questions or need assistance with your application
Please note: You will be required to make your first payment with us directly, while all future payments will be handled by Premier Vet Alliance via direct debit.
We have teamed up with Premier Vet Alliance, who will collect your direct debits on our behalf and take care of the administration of the plans.
This frees us up to concentrate on looking after your pets.
^ Savings may vary depending on the parasite products selected

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/practice-services/exotic-vet-service:
Here at RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital, our team includes vets and vet nurses with a special interest and additional qualifications in the treatment of exotic pets and small mammals.
Our London-based exotic pet vet service is one of a kind.
Our highly qualified and experienced staff are best placed to give exceptional care to these species and our specialist facilities are designed to cater for the specific needs of these pets too.
We treat a wide variety of animals including:
We offer:
Are you an exotic pet owner who wants to register your pet at our RVC Exotic vet service in Camden, London?
Email us: beaumont@rvc.ac.uk
Call us on 020 7387 8134 and inform the receptionist that you would like to become a client and would like to register your animal.
In addition to helping pet owners, we also offer an Exotics and Small Mammal referral service handling more complex cases from other vet practices.
Are you a vet who wants to use our Exotics and Small Mammal referral service?
Please ring us on 020 7387 8134 or, for more information see Exotics and Small Mammal referral service .
See Exotics and Small Mammal Referral Service Team page

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/practice-services/emergency-vet:
Here at RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital, our vet practice opening times will help you manage your pet’s health more easily.
As well as extended opening times including weekends, we also work in partnership with our colleagues at RVC Small Animal Referrals at our Queen Mother Hospital for Animals, as well as Vet 24.
This means you can have access to 24/7 vet services all year round – even on Christmas Day!
So if you need pet emergency services at any time of the day – or night – we can assist you.
This London vet practice opens early mornings from 8am Monday to Friday so you can book an early vet appointment before work.
We also open later in the evening (7pm Mondays to Fridays), so making sure your pet is fit and healthy can fit your schedule.
As you can appreciate, weekend vet appointments get booked very quickly.
At the weekend, people are often looking for their nearest emergency vet and we will do our best to see you as quickly as we can.
The Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital is open on Saturdays from 9am until 3.30pm.
We are available for both emergency vet appointments and routine services during those hours.
We are also one of the few London vet practices who are open on Sundays, from 10.30am until 3.30pm.
We are available for both emergency vet appointments and routine services.
Hotline for pet owners: 020 7387 8134
If your pet is need of urgent veterinary care outside these times, please contact our out-of-hours vet partners: QMHA or Vet 24.
The Queen Mother Hospital for Animals, which is Europe’s largest small animal hospital.
It is open 24 hours a day; 7 days a week.
It has cutting-edge trauma and critical care facilities and a large number of board-certified veterinary specialists.
It is based just outside Potters Bar in Hertfordshire near the M25/A1(M) junction.
Queen Mother Hospital for Animals The Royal Veterinary College, Hawkshead Lane , Hatfield , Hertfordshire AL9 7TA
RVC out-of-hours emergency hotline for pet owners: 01707 666399
If you would prefer to see a vet in central London, please contact our other out-of-hours partner.
Vet 24 10 Belsize Terrace , Belsize Park NW3 4AX
Alternative London-based out-of-hours emergency hotline for pet owners: 0870 8734576

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/vet-care:
Even with the best of care your pet will probably need to visit the vet several times during its hopefully long and happy life.
But how do you know when you should call your vet ?
Check out our pet healthcare tips below:
From the day you get your pet and throughout its lifetime - our vet team are on hand to help you with all your pet's health care needs.
In addition to our services, we also have a monthly Pet Health Plan to help you spread the cost of routine heathcare with easy direct debit payments.
Click here to see our full range of routine pet healthcare services
Visiting the vet can be stressful just from the perspective of worrying about what may happen.
See Preparing your pet for a visit to our vet practice for our top tips about coming to visit the vet with your pet, so that your vet visit is as stress-free as possible.
If your pet requires emergency treatment then it's important that they are seen as quickly as possible.
See Emergencies for details of who to contact and where to take your pet.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/vet-care/is-your-pet-ill:
Nobody knows your pet better than you do.
Sometimes it is obvious that a pet is ill but other times the first sign of illness might just be that your pet doesn't seem "quite right"
If you have any concerns at all, please contact the hospital so that we can arrange for one of our veterinary surgeons to examine your pet and work with you to figure out what is wrong.
Often, having an experienced veterinary surgeon listen carefully to the things you have noticed at home and and a perform a thorough physical examination of your pet will be sufficient for us to provide you with appropriate advice and your pet with the treatment that they need.
In more complex cases, rest assured that the hospital has full access to diagnostic facilities such as ultrasound, Xray, and laboratory testing to get to the bottom of the problem.
Some common signs to look out for include:
Call RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital on 020 7387 8134 or use our online booking system to book an appointment for your ill pet today.
The practice is open 7 days a week so there is no need to wait to get your pet the help they need.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/online-payment:
The College‘s online payment facility provides an easy, flexible method to enable you to pay hospital invoices.
Please make sure that you fill in all the fields correctly so we can allocate the payment to the correct account.
You can pay with the following cards:
Please note that we do not accept AMEX as a payment method.
Before proceeding, it is most important that you read the Terms & Conditions , in particular our cancellation and refunds section.
Please also note that it may take up to 3 working days for payments to be processed although we aim to process payments as quickly as possible.
Your data will be held in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 for more detail please view our privacy notice .
Please contact the reception team at Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital on 020 7387 8134 if you have any queries to do with your outstanding bill.
This payment page has recently been updated to take your payment details on a secure WorldPay page once you click the 'Enter Card Details' button.
Only enter your card details on a secure padlocked page with the address https://secure.worldpay.com
Please provide the following client details as shown on your statement or invoice.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/services/pet-prescriptions-pet-medication:
You can order food or repeat medication for your pet from the comfort of your own home.
Simply fill in your details and product requirements below.
Please make sure that you include an up-to-date contact number in case there is a problem with your order, or we need to give your pet a check-up before issuing any medication.
In most cases, it will only take 48 hours for your order to be processed in the practice but it might be a little longer for items that are not in stock and have to be ordered in.
If you have not received confirmation that your medication is ready to be collected within 48 hours, please contact us to check that there isn’t a problem with your request.
We must have seen your pet within the past 12 months to be allowed to prescribe flea and worm products, and within the past six months or sooner for certain prescription medications.
Once it’s ready, you can collect your order from us.
It really couldn’t be easier!
We are also able to issue written prescriptions to allow you to purchase your pet's medication online or from other veterinary practices.
Please allow 48 hours for this prescription to be created, we will let you know once it is ready.
Once we receive payment for your prescription we are able to send this directly to your pharmacy of choice.
You can find the cost of a written prescription on our price list here
You can order up to four products via this form.
If more than four products are required, please order four, then use a second form to order the rest.
First product
e.g.
Carprieve / Advocate / Feline Adult
100mg tablets / 4-10kg dog / 5kg bag
1 tablet daily, 3mls twice daily, 25kg dose once daily
30 tablets / 6 pipettes / one bag
Second product
Third product
Fourth product

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/register:
If you have recently moved to the area, have just acquired a new pet or have decided to change your veterinary practice, registering with us is very simple.
All you need to do is call us on 020 7387 8134 and inform the receptionist that you would like to become a client and would like to register your animals.
Alternatively you can enter your details on the form below which will be sent to our reception team by email.
All details supplied will be entered into our computer records in readiness for your first visit.
If you are an exotic pet owner looking to register with the Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital, please call the reception team directly to register .
In order to avoid delays and potential compromise to your animal's welfare we would advise you to register with the practice before the need for emergency services.
If necessary we will need your consent to contact your previous veterinary practice for your pets’ clinical notes.
If you have any queries or questions about registering with our hospital, please contact our reception team on 020 7387 8134 .
* required
We collect this information in order to provide and improve our services.
If you agree, we will also use it to send you information by email, post or text, about products, research, and services from the RVC and the work of Animal Care Trust (ACT) charity that we think would interest you.
We have provided various options for you to select (by ticking the boxes) below including your preferred method of communication.
For a more detailed explanation of how we use your personal data please see the Privacy Policies on our website.
Do you give photo consent?
If your pet has previously seen another vet, we will need their medical history before we can register them.
Please ask your previous to contact us directly on 020 7387 8134 or to email your pet’s clinical history to Beaumont@rvc.ac.uk .
For small mammal and exotic pets please phone us directly on 020 7387 8134 to register, as we will require additional information before seeing your pet.
NOTE: Please be aware the claims process can take up to 28 days for us to send claims to Insurance companies, however we endeavour to process claims as soon as possible.
By submitting this form I declare that the information provided above is accurate to the best of my knowledge.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/book-an-appointment:
We are pleased to offer an online booking facility so you can choose and book routine appointments with our vets.
No need to phone - just pick the time, date, and vet that suits you.
If your animal has a medical emergency please do not use the online booking system but instead contact us directly on 0207 387 8134
Book your consultation
Need to sign up as a new client to our vet practice?
Register as a client
The online appointment facility is not available to patients who are referral clients.
Instead, please telephone the hospital on 0207 387 8134 This is so we can collect all of the important information needed and book in the most appropriate appointment for your pet.
No - the vet appointment itself will be held face-to-face here at the RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital - this is purely a diary system to help you choose a date and time that best suits you and your pet
Yes - Our online appointment booking service can be used for any pets (not just cat or dog!) provided you are an existing registered client.
It is not available for referral clients - this is when exotic animal owners who have been referred by an independent general practice vet for more complex health issues.
The system is designed for appointments which are routine (eg: vaccination booster) or NON-urgent bookings only.
If your animal has any of the following conditions below - they are NOT suitable for an online appointment.
We will need your phone number and email address.
Payment is required to secure a consultation, a member of the Reception team will contact you to take payment once your booking has been completed.
We cannot accept American Express.
The deposit price is £58, which is taken off your consultation fee.
Deposits are refundable up to 48 hours in advance of the appointment.
Deposits are not refundable for missed appointments or cancellations with less than 48 hours notice.
Any additional treatment will be discussed with you during your consultation.
We ask that you settle your remaining balance being at the end of your consultation.
Yes.
All diary slots can be scheduled in advance (if you can't see an appointment date/time that suits, please call us on 0207 387 8134).
In the confirmation email you receive there is information re.
cancelling or rescheduling your appointment, in order to organise a refund of your deposit, you will need to contact us on 0207 387 8134
Please call our team on 0207 387 8134  and email us on beaumont@rvc.ac.uk with the words ONLINE BOOKING QUERY in the subject line
Please note that we can only respond during our normal office opening hours which are:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/pet-care-advice:
As a registered client, you will be able to access a whole myriad of pet advice resources.
To access our tips and advice to follow if you have pet emergency see:
We have a library of useful information about all sorts of species - see pet advice and animal care fact sheets.
Please feel free to ask any questions during your visit to our vet practice.
All our team are on hand to give you advice on pet health and wellbeing.
Our vets and vet nurses will be delighted to answer any pet advice questions you may have.
By asking pet care questions, you are also helping the vets of the future as we provide vocational learning to our veterinary students (who may be present at your appointments).

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/pet-care-advice/kitten-care:
If you've just welcomed a new kitten into your household (or are planning to), it is an exciting time.
We recognise you may want some kitten care advice - not just about your kitten's health but also about behaviour and environment.
The RVC Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital has achieved the gold level standard 'Cat Friendly Clinic' award from the International Society of Feline Medicine so you can be rest assured you will receive exceptionally high care at all times.
Our helpful Caring for your kitten leaflet is available here (PDF) : Download
Kittens need a balanced, nutritious diet to support growth and bone development.
We recommend using pre-prepared, complete and high quality food designed for kittens.
Instructions may differ based on body weight and breed.
Fresh water should be available to drink and be located separately from litter box and food.
You can contact our team for advice any time.
Cats are fast learners when it comes to toilet training.
At least one litter tray per cat should be provided.
This should be placed in a quiet place away from their food and water.
Litter trays need to be cleaned out regularly.
Kittens are learning and developing rapidly between 10 – 20 weeks so it is very important that they become familiar with people, situations and any other cats or dogs that are in your household.
If your kitten is being introduced to older pets in your home, they should be supervised whilst they get to know each other slowly.
Understanding and reading cat body language is useful to help you understand your cat and their needs.Our vet nurses have a special interest in behaviour management; please book an appointment if you would like more guidance.
Suitable toys can be provided for stimulation and distraction.
Take care not to allow cats to eat stringy material as this can be dangerous.
Kittens and cats do not need regular bathing.
If you need to bathe your kitten, do so with a gentle pet shampoo.
Kittens contract worms from their mum’s milk at a young age.
They contract parasites easily throughout life so regular worming is important.
Kittens should be wormed from two weeks old.
There are a variety of different treatment options for treating worms in young kittens.
This will depend on previous treatments and the products used.
Please ask us for advice on which product is best for your kitten.
Bringing a kitten into your world is an exciting time.
We realise you may have a whole host of questions about your kitten’s health, wellbeing and development.
This handy factsheet is designed to help you and your pet from the start.
It is important that you have your kitten checked for fleas.
Each flea can lay up to 2000 eggs, so a single flea can be a big problem.
If your cat will be venturing outside, we recommend treating to prevent flea problems.
Flea treatments can be applied to kittens from six weeks of age , once a month to treat and prevent fleas.
You should contact your vet for advice if you are concerned about fleas in a younger kitten.
Kittens are inoculated to protect them against cat flu (feline herpes and calici virus) and enteritis (panleukopenia virus).
We recommend the feline leukaemia virus vaccination - particularly for outdoor cats.
Kittens should be vaccinated from eight weeks old.
Please check whether your kitten has had vaccinations prior to you adopting them and bring any vaccination paperwork to your vet appointment.
We recommend life-long pet insurance for your kitten.
This provides a means of covering your veterinary care costs.
It is a good idea to get your kitten comfortable with having his or her teeth cleaned.
Kittens have baby teeth which gradually fall out from around three months of age.
These are replaced by permanent adult teeth by around six months old.
Our team offers dental demonstrations and can advise you on pet oral hygiene products for cleaning your cat’s teeth.
A microchip is a small implant (about the size of a rice grain) which is used to permanently identify your kitten.
It is inserted under the skin by injection.
It can be done in a regular appointment or at the time of neutering.
It is your responsibility to keep your details are up-to-date on the pet microchip database.
Neutering refers to permanent ‘desexing’ or sterilisation.
We recommend early neutering from four months of age in all suitable kittens.
We base this on the latest scientific research/evidence.This day procedure is carried out under general anaesthetic to remove the ovaries in females (spay) or testicles in males (castration).
Spaying can provide benefits such as prevention of unwanted pregnancy, repeat cycling or ‘calling’ behaviour; development of mammary (breast) cancer and womb infection (pyometra).
Castration of males can prevent roaming, fighting (and subsequent diseases) and unwanted pungent urine production.
When visiting the vet, please use a cat carrier with absorbent material inside to keep them safe and comfortable.
It is best to get your kitten accustomed to the carrier by using treat training.
Feliway® can help to make this easier.
This is a synthetic feline facial pheromone used to mark a cat’s territory as safe and secure.
We have cat-only waiting areas and consultation rooms to minimise stress.
Register your kitten online or call us for an appointment on 020 7387 8134

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/general-practice/pet-care-advice/puppy-care:
If you've just welcomed a new puppy into your household (or are planning to), it is an exciting time.
We recognise you may want some care advice - not just about your puppy's health but also about behaviour and environment.
You can download our handy 'Caring for your puppy' leaflet here: Download (PDF)
Puppies need a balanced, nutritious diet to support growth and bone development.
We recommend feeding a pre-prepared, complete and high quality food designed for puppies.
The amount to feed will depend on your dog’s size and breed, and whether they have been neutered.
Fresh water should always be available.
Please contact us for advice.
Toilet training is one of the first things to teach your puppy.
The key is having a consistent routine from day one.
All puppies learn at different paces, so it is important not to punish them but reward them with a small puppy food treat when they get things right.
Ensure they have regular opportunities to toilet outside (particularly in the morning and after eating).
Please contact us for further guidance.
Puppies absorb vast amounts of information about their environment during their learning and development phase (birth – 20 weeks) including how to communicate and behave with people and other pets.
It is vital they encounter situations, and undergo socialisation with people and other dogs and cats in your household during this time.
Slowly introduce your puppy to other pets in your home and supervise them whilst they get to know each other.
Understanding canine communication, including body language, is useful to help you manage your dog’s needs.
Our vet nurses have a special interest in behaviour management; please book an appointment for more guidance.
Suitable toys can be provided for stimulation and distraction!
Take care to prevent your pet ingesting parts of toys or balls.
When outside, your puppy should always wear a collar or harness and lead.
Puppies can be groomed using a suitable brush.
It is helpful to get them used to grooming at a young age.
They should also become used to having their toes touched in preparation for nail trimming and their ears touched for ear exams.
Puppies do not need regular bathing.
If you do need to bathe your puppy, please do so with a gentle pet shampoo.
Puppies can be born with intestinal worms passed down from their mum and they can contract them easily from birth.
Puppies should wormed every two weeks from three weeks old until 12 weeks of age, then monthly until six months of age.
We strongly advise regular protection against lungworm (a dangerous worm infection of the lungs and heart).
We can advise suitable products based on the age and weight of your puppy.
It is important that you have your puppy checked for fleas.
Each flea can lay up to 2000 eggs, so a single flea can become problematic.
Flea treatments should be applied monthly from six weeks of age to treat and prevent fleas.
You should contact your vet for advice if you are concerned about fleas in a younger puppy.
We can provide guidance on suitable products.
Dogs should be vaccinated to prevent serious illness from parvovirus, distemper, hepatitis and leptospirosis.
Puppies need two vaccinations as a primary course, generally given at 8 and 12 weeks of age.
In some situations, we may advise giving a third vaccination to make sure that your puppy is fully immunised.
Please bring along any vaccination information to your appointment.
Repeat vaccination is then required annually.
The kennel cough vaccination is also available.
We recommend life-long pet insurance for your puppy.
This provides a means of covering vet costs arising from illness or injury.
Talk to our team about how you can spread routine healthcare costs and save with a pet health plan
It is a good idea to get your puppy comfortable with having his or her teeth cleaned.
Their baby teeth gradually fall out from around three months of age.
These are replaced by permanent adult teeth by around six months of age.
We offer dental demonstrations and advice on pet oral hygiene products.
A microchip is a small implant (about the size of a rice grain) used to permanently identify your pet.
It is injected under the skin and this can be done during a normal appointment.
It is mandatory by law to have a dog microchipped by the time he or she is 8 weeks old.
You are responsible for ensuring information is accurate on the microchip database.
We recommend neutering from six months of age (although larger breed puppies may be neutered later).
This day-procedure is carried out under general anaesthetic and involves removing ovaries in females (spay) or testicles in males (castration).
Please talk to us about the best time for your dog
Spaying a female puppy provides many benefits including the prevention of mammary (breast) cancer and womb infection (pyometra) later in life.
Castration of males prevents testicular and prostate diseases.
It can also help prevent roaming and unpleasant urine marking.
This alternative style of surgery has significant benefits such as:
When you visit us, we recommend using a well-fitting collar or harness with a short lead attached to keep your dog safe and secure.
Taking your dog out to the toilet prior your visit avoids any unnecessary stress or discomfort.
You can bring a favourite toy or blanket to help your puppy feel more relaxed.
We offer special ‘friendly visit’ appointments with our veterinary nurses.
These are designed to reduce fear and stress sometimes seen in pets during a vet visit.
Register your puppy online or call us for an appointment on 020 7387 8134

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/referring-a-case:
If you are referring a dog that has been imported to the UK or travelled to an area where Brucella canis is considered endemic please read this information .
Our Emergency Referrals Service is in operation 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and is staffed by a large team of vets and specialist nurses, who provide acute care.
Our dedicated phone number for referring vets is 01707 666399 (option 2) .
You can also make a scheduled (non-emergency) referral by submitting a Standard Form .
Once the completed form has been received we will make the appointment directly with the client and email the referring vets the details.
For general enquiries qmhreception@rvc.ac.uk
Referring vets are kept up-to-date with case progress by phone as required and on discharge a detailed case report will be provided.
Hospitalised patients are continuously monitored and any changes are discussed with clients daily.
Our specialist Exotics and Small Mammals referral service is based at our Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital (BSAH) in Camden.
Please call the BSAH directly on 020 7387 8134 (8am-7pm Monday-Friday, 9am-3pm Saturday excluding bank holidays).
For any non-urgent queries, our email address is exoticscamden@rvc.ac.uk .
If you are an animal owner and would like your pet to be referred for investigation or treatment you will have go through your local vet.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/referring-a-case/why-refer-to-rvc:
With a team of over 200 dedicated and professional staff, RVC Small Animal Referrals is the largest and most comprehensive small animal referral service in Europe.
We offer a friendly and responsive service for referring vets and pet owners, and our clinicians have strong relationships with colleagues in the wider veterinary community.
Our veterinary specialists and are commonly engaged in research aimed at advancing veterinary practice.
Our transdisciplinary approach to patient care involves consultation across all specialities.
With a broad spectrum of specialities working together under one roof you can be confident that whatever the condition or combination of conditions your animal has, the team will do the best they can for the patient.
We work on many complex cases where conditions span different veterinary specialties and on such cases specialists from different teams collaborate to get the best for the patient.
Therefore, rather than be referred to one vet, our referred patients can benefit from the breadth and depth of expertise across the whole RVC team.
Our vets have often been the first in Europe – and sometimes the world – to provide pioneering treatment to animals.
Read about some of the advanced techniques delivered at the RVC which lead the way in veterinary practice.
RVC Small Animal Referrals is the first recognised Veterinary Trauma Centre outside of North America and have been designated the highest level (Level 1 Trauma Centre).
We also have a blood donor programme and operate the largest small animal blood bank in the UK.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/clinical-services:
With a team of over 200 dedicated and professional staff, including 30 critical care nurses, the RVC offers the largest and most comprehensive small animal referral service in Europe.
Patients are treated at Queen Mother Hospital for Animals, near Potters Bar in Hertfordshire.
We offer a helpful and responsive service for referring vets and pet owners, as well as outstanding opportunities for veterinary specialists-in-training.
Our multidisciplinary approach to patient care involves consultation across all specialities.
Each clinical team is led by registered UK, EU or US specialist veterinary surgeons, supported by specialists-in-training.
They discuss each case in detail with both the referring vet, pet owner and specialist nursing teams, which are supported by patient care assistants, to deliver exceptional care.
Our state-of-the-art small animal hospital has some of the best facilities in the world, allowing specialists to perform cutting-edge treatments to help pets.
The Queen Mother Hospital for Animals is the largest veterinary facility in Europe and treats conditions from acute heart failure to advanced neuromuscular diseases, joint replacements to epilepsy.
Staff within our hospital take our commitment to animals, owners and referring vets seriously and work hard to deliver high quality service.
Our highly-trained specialists and veterinary nurses are committed to ensuring that patients receive the best treatment and care possible.
There are many reasons why referring vets and pet owners choose the RVC:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/advanced-techniques:
Since its establishment as the first veterinary school in the English-speaking world, the RVC has pioneered new veterinary techniques and procedures.
We are at the forefront of advancements in veterinary surgery and medicine.
Many treatments that our leading specialists pioneer eventually become established in veterinary services around the world, benefiting animals everywhere.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/facilities:
Continuous investment in advanced equipment and our team, as well as cutting-edge research, enables us to push the boundaries of veterinary medicine and small animal surgery.
The Queen Mother Hospital for Animals (QMHA), the base of RVC Small Animal Referrals, is one of the largest and most advanced veterinary hospitals in the world.
Within the hospital, the Intensive Care Unit, anaesthetic induction and prep rooms, state-of-the-art operating theatres, blood donor programme and hydrotherapy pool are among the facilities that helps the RVC lead the way in small animal referral services.
The exceptional Emergency Referrals and Critical Care services has enabled the QMHA to become one of a small number of veterinary trauma centres in the world.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/facilities/icu-emergency-room:
RVC Small Animal Referrals has one of the best equipped veterinary Intensive Care Units (ICUs) in Europe.
Our large and experienced team cares for the sickest dogs and cats around the clock.
The veterinary ICU can accommodate up to 22 patients at any time and has two purpose-built oxygen cages.
In addition to state-of-the-art facilities and extensive on-site laboratory facilities and pet blood transfusion service, critical care and emergency referral patients benefit from our nutritional support service and a range of advanced procedures, including Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy.
Our emergency and critical care vets and veterinary nurses are supported 24-hours a day by each of the other specialist teams in the hospital, with whom we work closely.
Our emergency and critical care vets and nurses are supported by specialists across all fields, allowing us to provide the highest level of care to critically ill patients.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/facilities/hydrotherapy-pool:
Our hydrotherapy pool and underwater treadmill allows dogs and cats to exercise while being supported by water.
This is particularly useful for animals recovering from operations or injuries as well as those with orthopaedic, neurological conditions or arthritis.
During hydrotherapy sessions each animal has sole use of the pool and has a member of the team in the water with them at all times.
The pool is fitted with jets allowing the team to vary the effort required to swim.
We have a ramp and a hoist to facilitate easy access into the pool and there’s room for clients to stand alongside and encourage their pets.
We have life jackets to fit all sizes of dog.
The underwater treadmill is suitable for all dogs.
The length and intensity of treadmill sessions is varied in response to each dog's presentation.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/specialist-referrals/facilities/separate-species-wards:
Should your pet need to be admitted to hospital, you can rest assured that they will be well cared for.
Our dedicated ward vet is on hand to look after every hospitalised patient and our devoted team of ward nurses care for patients 24 hours a day.
Each ward is designed to minimise stress and maximise comfort.
Cats and dogs are separated into their own specially equipped wards and each pet has their own private space to rest and recuperate in.
Other pet Facilities include:
Client Facilities include:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/small-animal-vet/emergencies:
The Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital (BSAH)
The Queen Mother Hospital for Small Animals (QMHA)

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/practice:
Our first opinion equine vets provide personalised care for horses, ponies and donkeys throughout Hertfordshire, selected parts of North London, Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Essex
The RVC is at the forefront of research into equine health so our vets are up to date with the very latest advances in disease prevention and treatment.
We are equipped with leading edge technology so whether your horse is an elite athlete or a valued companion you can be assured that they are in the very best hands.
We are here when you need us, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/practice/register-as-a-client:
To register as a client of the Equine Practice please complete the Equine Practice Registration Form below.
Fields marked with an asterisk (*) must be filled in.
If your animal has previously seen another vet, we will need their medical history before we can register them.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/practice/services-and-facilities/appointments:
RVC Equine Practice vets are ready to provide personalised care for horses, ponies and donkeys throughout Hertfordshire and into adjoining counties.
This number can also be used for for general enquiries and is monitored 24-hours a day so should also be used for emergencies.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/practice/services-and-facilities/pre-purchase-examinations:
A Pre-Purchase Examination (Equine PPE) or Vetting, is an important step in the process of buying a horse.
It consists of a standard five stage clinical examination performed for an individual prospective purchaser with a view to assessing the horse in relation to the purchaser’s intended use of the horse.
RVC vets are happy to carry out pre-purchase examinations on behalf of existing registered clients or on behalf of new non-registered clients.
We perform vetting examinations throughout our regular catchment area and can travel further afield by prior arrangement.
If the animal that is to be examined belongs to a client of the RVC equine practice, we will require permission from the seller to disclose the full clinical history known to us to the prospective purchaser.
If permission for disclosure of the horse’s history is not granted we will unfortunately be unable to perform the examination due to a potential conflict of interests.
The five stages of a pre-purchase examination are:
A blood sample will be taken which is stored for six months.
It can be used if concerns arise after purchase, to test for substances such as sedatives, pain killers and anti-inflammatories that may have masked certain conditions at the time of the vetting.
Depending on the horse’s intended use or occasionally as a requirement of the purchaser’s insurance company, we can also perform further diagnostic tests such as x-rays, ultrasound examination of legs or endoscopy of the respiratory tract.
We are happy to advise on the requirement of these more detailed diagnostic tests on an individual basis.
Following this comprehensive examination the vet will form an opinion as to whether any of their findings may negatively affect the suitability of the horse for the intended use.
The findings and opinion will be reported and discussed with the purchaser, either over the phone or in person if they are in attendance at the vetting.
A written certificate will follow.
Occasionally we are asked to perform a less comprehensive two stage vetting.
This consists of only the first two stages outlined above and so the vet will form an opinion based on a restricted examination.
In advance of the vetting a “Limited Prior to Purchase Examination Form” will need to be completed by the prospective purchaser which confirms that they understand and accept that a limited examination may not reveal certain conditions which may have been discovered during the course of a full five stage examination.
Insurance examinations can also be carried out for an existing owner of a horse and will usually follow the same format as the five-stage pre-purchase examination but will not include an opinion and should not be interpreted as a pre-purchase examination.
Most pre-purchase examinations are performed at the stables where the horse is currently kept however, if the appropriate facilities are not available at the yard, we are able to examine horses at the Royal Veterinary College.
The facilities required for a 5 stage vetting are a dark stable to examine the eyes, a firm, level surface for trotting and lunging and a suitable arena to exercise the horse.
A further advantage to having the examination performed at the RVC is that if further diagnostic imaging tests are required we can provide these at the time of the examination.
To arrange a Pre-Purchase Examination either phone 01707 666297 during normal office hours (8am-5pm, Monday to Friday).
Prices updated 1st August 2025

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/practice/services-and-facilities/jmb-measurement:
The Joint Measurement Board (JMB) was established in 1934 to run a national scheme for the measurement of the height of horses and ponies for the purpose of description and classification of such horses and ponies for competition.
The head of the RVC's equine practice, Jason Tupper , is an Official Measurer for the scheme and we have a registered measuring pad here so can provide both Full and Annual Height Certificates.
(Price last update: 1st August 2025)
The measurement application fee for the FIRST measurement will be £105 plus a £20 JMB registration/ admin fee.
The total cost for the JMB measurement therefore will be £125.
For any other measurements the measurement application fees will be £105.
Owners must apply and pay for measurements in advance on the JMB website
Once an application for a measurement has been made and paid for, an appointment with RVC Equine needs to be made
A hard or digital copy of the payment receipt issued by the JMB to the owner needs to be brought to the measurement.
The animal’s passport and any previous JMB certificate must be available at the time of measurement
All animals being measured must have a microchip inserted (this can be done at the time of measuring if required - please advise us in advance when making your appointment)
The issuing of these certificates follows a standardised approach and is summarised below:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/hospital-and-specialists:
With the largest number of accredited specialists of any UK veterinary equine teaching hospital, supported by a team of highly trained equine veterinary nurses, equine technicians and clinicians-in-training, we provide a full range of specialist referral services ranging from advanced diagnostic imaging to emergency surgery and intensive care 24 hours a day 365 days a year.
Our clinical specialists work in multidisciplinary teams with comprehensive individualised treatment and care plans for our patients.
Collaborating on cases enables us to develop new approaches to diagnosis and treatment not available in other centres.
Cases that require direct access to advanced diagnostic imaging can be referred for radiography, ultrasonography low field MRI, standing CT, and bone scans.
We also offer a range of visiting specialist services such as oncology, ophthalmology, and overground endoscopy in addition to our full range of hospital-based services.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/hospital-and-specialists/refer-a-horse:
If you are a referring vet wanting to refer a horse to the hospital please complete the Referral Form below.
This form is to be completed by the referring vet only , for non-urgent referrals.
For emergency referrals, please phone 01707 666667 .
Please upload any supporting files
This form is to be completed by referring vets only, for non-urgent referrals, to the RVC Equine Hospital

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/hospital-and-specialists/emergency-contact:
This line is manned 24 hours a day for equine emergencies.
Emergency referrals must come via veterinary practices.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/hospital-and-specialists/facilities:
Our state-of-the-art Equine Hospital is open 365 days a year and offers a range of ground-breaking services.
Continuous investment in equipment, and in our team, enables us to push the boundaries of equine veterinary practice.
The hospital is fully equipped with the latest surgical, diagnostic and critical care facilities.
As well as access to sophisticated technology and equipment, our clinicians benefit from the knowledge-base of the RVC.
This helps us to provide the most advanced treatment.
Facilities include 35 stables for patient accommodation.
These include 23 general boxes, two holding boxes, six intensive care boxes, two mare and foal boxes, and two isolation boxes.
We have a dedicated adult Intensive Care Unit and a neonatal Intensive Care Unit.
Our dedicated isolation unit is for horses with contagious disease.
We also have a padded stable for horses with neurological disease.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/hospital-and-specialists/specialisms:
At RVC Equine, our clinical specialists work in multidisciplinary teams, with different specialists collaborating on cases and developing new approaches to diagnosis and treatment.
This cross-disciplinary approach enables us to develop specific treatment plans for our patients.
It also reassures owners that their horse or pony is in the very best hands.
Our veterinary specialists are supported by a team of highly professional and well-trained equine veterinary nurses, equine technicians and clinicians-in-training.
As a leading teaching hospital, we are committed to training the veterinary professionals of the future.
Veterinary students and specialists-in-training learn alongside some of the best equine vets in the profession.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/research:
The RVC has been at the forefront of equine research since it was established.
The combination of an equine referral hospital, doctoral and post-doctoral equine research and the existence of internationally respected specialists at the College enables it to remain at the leading-edge of developments in equine science and medicine.
Stem-cell based treatments and breakthroughs in gait analysis and recurrent laryngeal neuropathy are just some of the areas where RVC experts have been at the forefront of equine research with benefits for practice.
RVC equine veterinary specialists and researchers work closely with biomechanics researchers at the College’s Structure and Motion Laboratory .
This multidisciplinary effort to better understand the locomotion of horses, in both health and disease, has already helped progress lameness diagnosis approaches.
The collaboration is likely to continue to generate fresh insights into performance at all levels, which helps horses at the RVC and beyond.
Not only do horses and their owners benefit directly from RVC breakthroughs, but veterinarians trained at the College and their future clients also benefit from the knowledge-base they are immersed in.
This expertise also filters out to practices around the world via research papers, books and presentations at national and international conferences and congresses.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/research/current-projects:
Royal Veterinary College researcher-clinicians are involved with world-class research that not only benefits their own patients but also helps the global veterinary community support veterinary health and welfare.
Some of the current significant research areas are:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/research/published-papers:
RVC experts have been at the forefront of equine research since the earliest days of the RVC.
See individual RVC Equine Team members' own pages for selected lists of their published papers.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/research/case-studies:
As part of our commitment to the concordat on openness on the use of animals in research, here are some short articles explaining how and why we use horses in research at the RVC.
Several studies have highlighted that lameness is the most common presenting clinical complaint in equine practice, the most common cause for retirement and loss of use in horses across all disciplines.
Read about our research in this Gait analysis Case Study
Much of the exploration into new treatment options for tendon injuries in animals has taken place in the horse.
The RVC was the setting of the first use of stem cell therapy for tendon injuries in horses, and the technique has also been used for equine joint disease.
Read about our research in this Stem cell based treatments Case Study
Laminitis is a painful condition of the equine foot which can result in permanent lameness or euthanasia affecting 1.5-34% of horses.
Read about our research in this Summary of Recent Laminitis Research at the RVC
Recurrent laryngeal neuropathy (RLN) is a disease of the recurrent laryngeal nerves that is common in horses.
Read about our research into causes, diagnosis and treatment of RLN in this Recurrent laryngeal neuropathy Case Study .
This research project aims to provide insights into disrupted mechanisms accounting for currently unidentified pregnancy losses in mares.
Read about our research in this Immunobiology of fertility in mares Case Study .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/research/performance-and-equitation:
The RVC's extensive research and clinical expertise in musculoskeletal, upper respiratory and cardiopulmonary diseases is backed up by cutting-edge diagnostic equipment, including exercising endoscopy (treadmill and overground), echocardiography (ECG), telemetric ECG and gait analysis (back movement, gait symmetry and horse-rider interaction).
The Structure and Motion Laboratory is a key facility for the RVC's Performance and Equitation research.
Researchers use state-of-the-art equipment and world-leading expertise to understand the movement of horses and of riders.
The Comparative Neuromuscular Disease Laboratory offers a specialised service for evaluation of muscle biopsy specimens.
Researchers investigate the aetiology, pathogenesis and treatment of neuromuscular diseases in horses and other animals.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/hospital-and-specialists/information-for-horse-owners/how-to-find-us:
The Equine Hospital is located on the Hawkshead Campus, the address of which is as follows:
This route is not recommended when using larger vehicles, because of the narrow, twisting roads and very narrow bridge.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/information-and-advice:
RVC Equine comprises of a referral hospital staffed by leading specialists, a practice serving owners across Hertfordshire and adjoining counties, and researchers driving forward knowledge internationally.
The College has led the way internationally since it was established, both in equine veterinary practice and research into equine health and performance.
Veterinary specialists are the hospital are involved with ground-breaking research of benefit for their own patients and horses globally.
RVC Equine has some of the best facilities in the world and a wealth of veterinary specialists, enabling all equine patients to have the most advanced treatment available.
As well as the largest number of accredited specialists of any UK veterinary equine teaching hospital, we have a team of highly trained equine veterinary nurses and equine technicians.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/information-and-advice/fact-files:
Information and advice from the RVC equine team to help you look after the health and welfare of your horses.
These Fact Files and How To guides have been developed by equine veterinary specialists, guided by the latest clinical and research information.
Further Fact Files and How To guides will be added over time.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/information-and-advice/talks-and-events:
The Royal Veterinary College Equine team, in conjunction with The British Horse Society Hertfordshire, organise a series of popular talks for all horse riders and owners.
They are a great forum for discussion and advice on a variety of horse diseases and disorders.
If you have missed any of the previous lectures and want to catch up, you can access the recordings here:
If you are having difficulty accessing the online lectures, please call 01707 666865.
BHS Hertfordshire is delighted to announce that the RVC Equine Lecture Series is now accredited by the British Horse Society as CPD for BHS Accredited Professional Coaches.
Attending three lectures counts as CPD for a year
The ticket price is set at a level which simply covers admin and operational costs.
Regrettably, we are unable to provide refunds.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/information-and-advice/equine-history-of-the-rvc:
The health and welfare needs of horses drove the establishment of the Royal Veterinary College, and these have remained at the core of the RVC's activities over the centuries.
In the decades before the RVC was established, in 1791, there was great concern about the welfare of horses and a resultant movement to provide farriers with a grounding in science.
At the forefront of this was the Odiham Agricultural Society, a group of gentry alarmed at the impact on equine health and welfare of what they perceived to be quackery.
The establishment of the Veterinary College, London (as the RVC was initially called) marked the establishment of the veterinary profession in Britain.
The foundation story of the College is linked to the death of a notable racehorse, Eclipse, who had dominated the racing seasons of 1769 and 1770.
After retiring from racing, in 1770, he stood at stud until his death - in 1789.
The fame of Eclipse was such that there was a desire among the public to understand the cause of his death and the secret of his racing success.
Veterinary expertise was required for this, and Frenchman Charles Benoit Vial de St Bel, who was in England at the time, carried out the post-mortem.
St Bel had been in England to lobby support for his plan to establish a British veterinary school.
He subsequently became the first principal of the College.
The importance of horses to the military and the value of vets to the country was emphasised in the early 19th Century, when Prime Minister William Pitt (the Younger) sought to ensure that every cavalry regiment had veterinarians.
This was to reduce the losses of horses in Britain's war against France.
The RVC retains a strong relationship with the Royal Army Veterinary Corps.
The combination of an equine referral hospital, doctoral and post-doctoral equine research and the existence of internationally respected specialists at the RVC have enabled the College to remain at the forefront of developments in equine medicine.
Stem-cell based treatments and breakthroughs in gait analysis and recurrent laryngeal neuropathy are just some of the areas where RVC experts have been at the forefront of equine science and practice.
As well as a referral hospital, the RVC has an Equine Practice based in Hertfordshire, which covers surrounding counties.
The 24-hour and 365-day-a-year service is led by highly experienced and knowledgeable equine vets.
The practice team is committed to client education and holds regular educational lectures to pass on information about new treatments and management of different conditions.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/information-and-advice/subject-index:
An A-Z list of equine subjects covered on the RVC website.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/online-payment:
Your data will be held in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 for more detail please view our privacy notice .
Please contact the reception on 01707 666297 if you have any queries.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/information-and-advice/equine-team:
Equine, Hawkshead
In addition to running a research group investigating tendon disease in horses and humans, Roger provides specialist orthopaedic referral services at the Royal Veterinary College's Equine Referral Hospital, where he is involved in lameness diagnosis, imaging and orthopaedic surgery.
Andy is undertaking research into the objective measurement of back movement, using inertial measurement units, and how it is affected by the presence of back pain.
He is also investigating the interplay between lameness and back pain.
Hawkshead
Camden
Comparative aspects of neuromuscular disease research with translation to therapies in humans and animals, including post natal gene therapy and gene editing for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.
Genomic, genetic, cell and molecular approaches to investigation of the aetiology and pathophysiology of neuromuscular diseases in animals and humans.
Nicola graduated from Cambridge University in 1997.
She spent nearly 3 years in first opinion equine practice in Essex before coming to the Royal Veterinary College in 2000 to undertake a 3 year Senior Clinical Training Scholarship (residency) in equine medicine.
She then went on to complete her PhD in equine laminitis at RVC between 2003 and 2004.
In January 2005 she gained became a Diplomate of the European College of Equine Internal Medicine and took up the position of Lecturer in Equine Medicine at RVC.
Nicola was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2011 and to Reader in 2017.
She is a European and RCVS specialist in equine internal medicine.
RVC Equine, Hawkshead
This member of staff no longer works for The RVC.
Jason has specialised in equine veterinary care for over 20 years qualifying from Cambridge University in 1992.
Working first in Hampshire where he developed the equine side of a mixed practice, he then went on to spend 9 years at Peter Scott Dunns equine hospital in Berkshire.
Working with both pleasure and performance horses at all levels of competition, Jason developed his interest in general equine practice, stud work, lameness investigation, back problems and dentistry.
Whilst working for Peter Scott Dunns he was routinely the on duty vet at Guards Polo, including the annual Cartier Polo Gold Cup and was also duty racecourse vet at Sandown, Ascot and Kempton.
He worked in their equine hospital performing over 1500 equine general anaesthetics and dealing with their post-operative complications and care.
He also looked after the equine stud work for this large 10 equine vet practice including AI, with both chilled and frozen semen.
In 2002, Jason moved to Hertfordshire where he joined the RVC equine practice.
He was awarded his Royal College Certificate in Equine Practice in 2003 and has since focused on developing a strong team to expand the RVC equine practice.
He was appointed an Official Measurer for the JMB in 2006.
The practice grew rapidly thanks to the dedication of the team he built up and he continues to steer and develop it in order to maintain its position as a centre of excellence dedicated to serving the horses and owners in the community.
With his other keen life interests, his wife Julia and three children, he has little time for hobbies.
He hopes that one day he will return to climbing, riding and skiing.
Goncalo graduated from the University of Lisbon, Portugal and started working in the UK in 2003.
After some time in practice with an equine ambulatory team in the midlands, Goncalo joined the Dubai Equine Hospital where he completed an internship at the referral hospital and was involved with high performance and competition work.
He then returned to the UK where he worked in ambulatory practice in Essex before joining the Royal Veterinary College in 2006.
Goncalo enjoys the multi discipline nature of ambulatory work, in particular equine orthopaedics, ophthalmology and geriatrics.
Equine Practice, Hawkshead
Harold qualified from the Royal Veterinary College in 2018 having previously completed a degree in biological sciences at the University of Exeter.
He stayed on at the RVC equine referral hospital for a year working alongside specialists dealing a variety of referral cases.
Harold then joined an equine ambulatory practice based near Windsor in Berkshire predominantly dealing with sports horses and polo ponies.
He was one of the regular duty vets at Guards polo club managing an array of orthopaedic emergencies.
Outside work he loves travelling, cooking and playing polo with his wife India.
He is currently training several thoroughbreds off the racetrack to play polo but also enjoys teaching them to jump.
Having re-joined the RVC team in Autumn 2020, Harold really enjoys the mixed nature of equine ambulatory practice but has a particular interest in sports medicine, dentistry, diagnostic imaging and surgery.
Jess is a first opinion vet with a special interest in equine reproduction.
Graduating from the RVC in 2018, she initially worked in a variety of both first opinion and hospital settings including a 12 month internship at the University of Liverpool Leahurst Equine Hospital.
During this time she rotated through medicine, surgery and diagnostic imaging services, treating hospitalised patients under the guidance of specialists and taking an active role in student teaching.
Jess joined the RVC Equine team in February 2021 and enjoys the variety of triumphs and challenges each day brings with life on the road as an ambulatory vet.
In August 2022 Jess passed her Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced Equine Practice, undertaking both reproduction focused and general practice modules to complete 3 years of part time study.
In February 2023 Jess returned to the RVC following a 6 month sabbatical to work as a reproduction vet in Australia with world leading specialists in the subject.
Here, Jess advanced her skills working with broodmares, stallions and youngstock.
Jess works alongside Sam to offer equine reproductive services including articifical insemination, problem broodmare investigation and embryo flushing.
ERH Reception and Administration, Hawkshead

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/equine-vet/information-and-advice/accreditation-and-awards:
The Royal Veterinary College’s Equine Practice and Referral Hospital is accredited by the RCVS Practice Standards Scheme (PSS), a voluntary quality assurance system designed to promote the highest standards of veterinary care.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni/support-the-rvc:
There are many ways in which alumni can contribute towards the continuing success of the Royal Veterinary College.
Thanks to the generous donations of our alumni, we are able to offer support to current students and undertake work that has a real impact on student life at the RVC.
We hope to create and build a lifelong relationship between the RVC, its alumni and the current student & staff community by encouraging you to get involved after you leave the RVC.
You can get involved by:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni/benefits-and-services:
As an alumnus of the Royal Veterinary College and member of the RVC4Life community, you qualify for some special benefits.
These include access to the RVC's physical library resources, discounted CPD and postgraduate study.
Lifelong learning
As an alumnus, you are entitled to a 20%* discount on CPD courses here at the RVC .
All you need to do is create a CPD account with us: https://rvc.uk.com/SignupCPD , and complete the relevant fields for the CPD team to certify your credentials.
Check out the latest CPD courses available here: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/study/cpd
Did you know we offer a 20% discount on all taught postgraduate course tuition fees to RVC alumni?
Only full postgraduate degree programmes are included including our Graduate Diploma in Veterinary Nursing  (i.e.
not PGCerts or PG Dips) and candidates cannot be enrolling on a programme that awards an equivalent or lower qualification to one they already hold.
See www.rvc.ac.uk/study/postgraduate for full terms and conditions.
For more information about our postgraduate course portfolio please contact RVC Admissions .
RVC alumni are entitled to discounted entry to the London Vet Show which is held at the ExCel in London each November.
The London Vet Show is a national two day conference and exhibition which offers world-class clinical and business content to veterinary professionals.
The library at our Hawkshead Campus is well stocked with items relating mainly to clinical veterinary work and research.
There is a large collection of clinical and basic science textbooks and many current journals.
The collection extends online to a large ejournal and eBook selection and in print the historical journal collection dates to the first ever edition of The Veterinary Record.
The Camden Campus library holds a more limited collection of print books only.
The full catalogue can be searched via a link from the RVC website.
Access to library resources is free and openly available to all alumni of the college, and all are welcome to visit.
The library itself has a large open plan study area and isolated study rooms.
If you live locally and would like to use these facilities for private study, you may book in as a visitor and come along.
Archives The archives are extensive as you can imagine from a college that is over 200 years old.
We have many journals dating back further than online resources allow, as well as a collection of unique old textbooks.
If you would like to reserve a book or journal in the collection, please email library@rvc.ac.uk ; for old journals or archived items, please allow at least one business day for retrieval.
Visiting the library Visits are by prior arrangement only.
Alumni may visit the library at either campus during core working hours (Monday to Friday, 9:00am to 5:00pm), unless a prior agreement has been made with a  host on site at the time of the visit.
To arrange this please email library@rvc.ac.uk your details, the campus library you wish to visit, the date, and approximate time of arrival.
If planning to visit the Hawkshead Campus Library and travel there by car, please provide vehicle details.
Please allow at least one business days’ notice for your request to be processed.
A visitor pass will be arranged and ready for you to collect from the Main Reception on arrival.
Whilst on college grounds we ask that you follow any local rules and do not bring animals onto the campus.
Bookshop The RVC also runs a bookshop from the library office at Hawkshead which offers discounts on many Veterinary Science reference books.
If you would like a quote, please email bookshop@rvc.ac.uk with details of the book you are interested in purchasing (title, author, ISBN etc.).
If you opt to proceed, the book(s) will be ordered for you, and we can arrange onward delivery to your preferred address on receipt; please note we are unable to arrange delivery outside of the UK.
Most orders take approximately 7-10 working days to arrive and payment can be made by card over the telephone, or we can arrange to invoice your Veterinary Practice.
If you still need to order through the library using a grant code, please email full details to bookshop@rvc.ac.uk and we will be in touch as soon as possible.
For further information on IT and Library Services please do not hesitate to contact the library team by phone or email: Library@rvc.ac.uk
0207 568 5180
If you graduated within the last 12 months, you can still access RVC Learn .
RVC Learn is a virtual learning environment where you will find resources such as current course & lecture notes, videos and podcasts which we hope will be useful to you during your early days in the working world.
You can access RVC Learn by logging in using your RVC username and password.
Visit Us Want to pop by for a visit?
We love to welcome back our alumni, and will always strive to accommodate you as best we can!
All you need to do is email us at alumni@rvc.ac.uk , letting us know which campus and what dates you'd like to visit.
On occasion we may be able to facilitate last minute requests, however we would ask for as much notice as possible.
Understandably there may be sometimes where we may not be able to accommodate every request, but we will always strive to give you a great experience to rekindle some memories.
So if you want to come by Camden, or hang out at Hawkshead, get in touch!
alumni@rvc.ac.uk +44 (0)1707 666237
Want to pop by for a visit?
alumni@rvc.ac.uk
Reunions Want to organise your own reunion?
We can help!
We're always here to give you a hand if you wanted to organise your own reunion, such as: Searching our alumni database for those you'd like to invite Forwarding a letter or email to them on your behalf (If you would like an invitation template, we can provide this) Provide you with a list of names of all those who have been contacted, and their responses if received Publicising your event on our webite, social channels, and newsletters We can host the reunions at either Camden or Hawkshead campus* If you have any questions, or help outside of the above, please drop us a message and we'd be happy to help!
* Pending availability Don't forget to let us know how it went!
We love to hear your stories.
Sharing your reunions online can then help track down those that may have missed out for next time, and inspire others to organise their own reunion.
For more details on all our upcoming events, connect to our social channels: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni/keeping-in-touch Or you can keep an eye on the News & Events section on our website: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/news-and-events You can reach us by emailing Alumni@rvc.ac.uk or direct message us on our socials to get in touch.
We look forward to hearing from you!
RVC Centre for Veterinary Nursing - Silver Jubilee Reunion - 16th March 2024
Want to organise your own reunion?
We're always here to give you a hand if you wanted to organise your own reunion, such as:
If you have any questions, or help outside of the above, please drop us a message and we'd be happy to help!
* Pending availability
Don't forget to let us know how it went!
For more details on all our upcoming events, connect to our social channels: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni/keeping-in-touch Or you can keep an eye on the News & Events section on our website: https://www.rvc.ac.uk/news-and-events
You can reach us by emailing Alumni@rvc.ac.uk or direct message us on our socials to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni/careers:
The RVC recognises that in the current jobs market it is more crucial than ever to have the right careers advice and support before and after graduation.
You still have access to RVC careers services, even after you graduate!
Stay networked
You will always stay connected with your close friends from university but what about the rest of the RVC Alumni community?
A great place for career based networking is the RVC Alumni LinkedIn group , where you can connect with the RVC's expanding group of alumni, staff and student members.
You can ask for advice, hear about career opportunities and share your knowledge and connect with like minded people who can inspire and advise you.
Keep learning
Are you looking to learn new skills or simply gain that extra competitive edge in the jobs market?
As RVC alumni, you have access to discounted continuing professional development and postgraduate study at the RVC .
In addition, you can access library resources and facilities and RVC Learn, the RVC 's online learning portal.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni/keeping-in-touch:
Join the RVC's online alumni community.
By signing up to RVC4Life , you can contact former classmates and ensure we have your up to date contact information so you don't miss out on alumni news, events and offers.
Chat to former RVC classmates & staff, share knowledge and get the latest news and views from the RVC.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni/update-details/auth:
Stay connected to the RVC
Keeping in touch with our alumni is really important to us – not only does it enable us to keep you updated of news and developments at the RVC, CPD opportunities, and tell you about reunions and other events – but it also enables you to keep in touch with each other and stay connected to the RVC long after you graduate.
We are only able to do this with your up to date contact details and with your permission to be contacted in the ways you prefer.
Don’t lose touch!
To access your details please enter your student number and surname, if don’t remember your student number then please email us: alumni@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/rvc4life-alumni/donate:
The Alumni Fund gives immediate benefit to students by enhancing the student experience, assisting with financial hardship and improving the learning and teaching experience at the RVC.
Since its launch in 2005, the generosity of alumni and friends has raised over £300,000, making a remarkable contribution to RVC student life.
Please note that all funds are administered by the Royal Veterinary College Animal Care Trust (Registered Charity Number: 281571), the RVC's registered charity.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/rvc-in-the-community/our-impact:
Our vision is to be a sustainable, socially responsible and pioneering institution on a local, national and global scale.
We celebrate equality and diversity, cherish culture, embrace difference and individuality and promote wellbeing.
We continue to create a rich, dynamic, and inspirational College based on world-leading research, teaching and enterprising education.
Learn more about the RVC Mission and Strategy and our plans for the coming years.
The RVC has been making great strides towards reducing the environmental impact of campus operations and activities.
From incorporating sustainability into procurement to supporting staff and student-led projects, our sustainable practices and policies are building up across the RVC.
We work with the Hertfordshire & Middlesex Wildlife Trust to identify and improve existing habitats across our Hawkshead Campus and enhance the habitats.
Learn more about our Environmental Sustainability Strategy
The Royal Veterinary College is an exempt charity.
Its principle regulatory body is the Office for Students, who ensure all obligations are fulfilled under charity law.
Learn more about how we are governed: RVC Governance, Policy and Legal
The RVC also has an independent registered Charity – The Royal Veterinary College Animal Care Trust that is registered under the Charities Commission.
(Reg no 281571).
Its objects support The Royal Veterinary College's wide range of clinical, research and educational activities aimed at improving animal health and care for the public benefit.
See how the ACT works in the local community, get involved and see how you can make a difference – RVC Animal Care Tust .
The RVC’s Students’ Union is a charitable incorporated institution.
The objects of the RVC SU are the advancement of education of students at The Royal Veterinary College for the public benefit – they promote welfare, represent students and encourage personal development.
Learn more about the RVC Students’ Union

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/rvc-in-the-community/our-work:
The RVC works closely with government and public bodies and local groups across the community and here are just some of the ways we get involved:
The RVC has organised and developed training sessions for the local police and fire & rescue services.
This specialist training enables police officers and firemen to learn about how to handle horses and large animals.
In rural areas particularly, animals may wander on to public highways, disrupting traffic and causing a danger to the public or be trapped in an accident.
The skills gained enable the teams to be able to control a horse quickly and safely.
The RVC’s own charity recently bought our Equine team a equine rescue mannequin to help with this type of training.
RG Carter (our development contractors) and the RVC are currently in preliminary discussions with the local Fire Brigade and the Ambulance Service’s Hazardous Area Response Team (HART) about training opportunities.
The tower crane on site has been offered for “rescue at height” training, while the wider contractor site could be used for a construction environment simulation.
The RVC offers a base on campus for some officers from the local Safer Neighbourhood Community police team.
The Hertfordshire LEP has recently made a donation to the RVC of £7m towards the establishment of a Veterinary Vaccinology and Cell Therapy Hub which will accelerate the One Health approach, boosting the development of next-generation vaccines and cell therapies to combat key animal pathogens and ultimately protect humans.
During the pandemic, the RVC has been working hard to help the fight against COVID-19.
We have joined a drive by DEFRA to provide an inventory of equipment that may be called upon by the NHS such as ventilators, PPE and other equipment.
We have sent our dialysis unit and supplies of vital medical equipment to the NHS and vital PPE to local hospitals and hospices.
As a community we have called upon staff, students and alumni to send us in their unwanted scrubs which we have sorted and sent to local Hertfordshire & London hospitals, along with 100 pairs of RVC socks and our Students Union have sent thermometers to the local Hertfordshire  Community First initiative.
We are an active member of many local organisations and community groups such as the Welwyn Hatfield Business Forum, Welwyn Hatfield Borough Council 11-19 Group, Hawkshead Lane Working Group and local groups such as the Welham Green Book Swap and The Friendship Group run by Councillors from Welwyn Hatfield and takes place in Welham Green.
We work with Herts County Council, Welywn Hatfield Borough Council and North Mymms Parish Council to develop and enhance the local environment, ensure safety, and build relationships with our neighbours.
Our Camden campus in London is part of the Knowledge Quarter and also works closely with the Camden community offering homework clubs, animal anatomy sessions and we host many public events such as Night at the Vet College.
All of these initiatives are run by our Outreach and Widening participation teams and information on such events and initiatives can be found here.
Streetvet is a national charity helping pets owned by the homeless in city centres, towns and regions across the UK.
Many of our students and alumni volunteer with the charity along with some of our staff and our first opinion practice Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital in Camden works with the charity for those that need treatment in London.
The RVC’s Beaumont Sainsbury also works closely with charity partners the Dogs Trust, the RSPCA and Wood Green Animal Shelter.
Our Shelter Medicine Programme at the RVC provides four dedicated vets to these animal shelters who in turn train our students about the importance of improving the lives of homeless animals.
We actively collaborate with business and industry to progress science and develop new technologies.
Our business team works closely with scientists and clinicians to identify, protect, develop and commercialise intellectual property, to strengthen research collaboration and the development of new technologies.
Learn more about Research at the RVC
LBIC is wholly owned by RVC and houses more than 50 biotechnology and life science companies.
One of our clients MicrosensDx have developed a portable coronavirus test kit for research that takes less than 25 mins from taking a sample to result.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/rvc-in-the-community/our-work-and-volunteering:
Our staff and students are the RVC’s ambassadors and champions.
They work throughout our communities in both Hertfordshire and London.
Here are just a few of the ways we get out and about in the communities we work in:
Staff and students have recently come together to kick-start a monthly litter picking initiative as part of our environmental stewardship role and ongoing commitment to support the local community.
Community Relations joined forces with staff from the QMH to clear up the campus and surrounding areas to improve and enhance the local area.
Litter picks will continue on a regular basis.
We organise and run Pet first aid events on each campus for cat and dog owners.
These events cover two main areas – basic first aid and poisons and toxins.
Keep an eye out under our news and events section for the next Pet First Aid course.
The RVC Equine team organise a series of popular talks for all horse riders and owners.
These insightful forums provide iThese insightful forums provide information, discussion and advice on horse diseases and conditions such as laminitis, gastric ulcers, headshaking, poor performance and yard biosecurity.
The events are supported by the British Horse Society who recently awarded the events with CPD accreditation status.nformation, discussion and advice on horse diseases and conditions such as laminitis, gastric ulcers, headshaking, poor performance and yard biosecurity.
The events are supported by the British Horse Society who recently awarded the events with CPD accreditation status.
For further details visit our Equine Hospital pages .
The Community relations team offer the chance for KS2 pupils from local primary schools to come for an education farm visit and our student ambassadors can come to local primary schools to talk about a range of science or veterinary careers.
Our Widening Participation and Outreach teams host a whole range of events and initiatives for school and further information on what is available can be found here.
The RVC’s Students Union Triathlon Club organise an annual run for local running clubs, community members and students known as the Hawkshead Hobble each year.
The club raise money for local charities.
The RVC’s working farm covers over 200 hectares of Hertfordshire countryside and has been an essential part of the RVC’s activities for over 50 years.
Our farm teams work closely with our students and the local community.
The farm team host meetings and advise local landowners and farmers clubs, sell produce to the local residents including free range eggs from our own hens, local honey, alpaca fleece and beautiful greetings cards (drawn by a member of staff!) We host annual Open Farm Sunday event where the local community are invited to come and learn about all of the activities on a working farm including the life of a dairy cow
Did you know we produce between 18,000-19,000 litres of milk at the farm every week?
Now that is a lot of milk our cows are busy producing!
Our new milk vending machine is now up and running supplying both semi-skimmed and whole pasteurised milk.
Why not add a dash of flavoured syrup to turn your milk into a milkshake!?
Reusable glass bottles (either 500ml or 1L) are available to purchase from the farm shop.
The milk that is not sold through the farm shop is sold to Arla foods and will find its way to your local supermarket or corner shop.
The farm has also participated in Care Farm projects to promote the importance of farming and accessibility to people of all backgrounds, from those experiencing social or educational exclusion, with learning difficulties, with mental or physical health issues or those recovering from drug addiction.
The benefits include improving and boosting self-esteem, motivation and personal development.
The Community Relations team offer educational farm visits for KS2 pupils from local Primary Schools.
Pupils have been lucky enough to see newborn lambs, collect eggs from our hens and learn some wonderful facts about farming.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources:
Welcome to the Human Resources (HR) website.
The HR Department is structured to enable a customer focused and responsive service to all employees within the RVC as well as the general public.
We support a range of activities and initiatives to make the RVC a great place to work.
The RVC has a working commitment to ensuring equality is implemented across all aspects of the HR function.
This is achieved by the effective application of a range of HR policies and procedures.
These are further supported by the delivery of the RVC  Equality Action Plan, Athena SWAN Action Plan , achieving HR Excellence in Research and being accredited as a Disability Confident Employer.
The HR Team are based on the Hawkshead Campus within the Eclipse Building, however provide on-site support to the Camden Campus on a regular basis.
This site has been developed to help RVC employees and the general public gain easy access to HR services and information.
The HR Organisation Chart provides easy contact information for all members of the various sections within HR.
If you have any suggestions about how we can improve the HR website, please contact the HR Systems Team by e-mail: hrsystems@rvc.ac.uk
The nationally negotiated salary scales are available here :
Salary scales as at 01 August 2022 , are available to download below:
Salary scales, as at 01 August 2021 , are available to download below:
Salary scales, as at 0 1 August 2019 and 01 August 2020 , are available to download below:
2018 Rates
2017 Rates
The Trade Union (Facility Time Publications Requirements) Regulations 2017 came in to force on 1st April 2017.
These regulations place a legislative requirement on relevant public sector employers to collate and publish on an annual basis, a range of data on the amount and cost of facility time within their organisation.
For the RVC, the following data for the period indicated was submitted to HM Government for publication this year.
See here for the full report.
Important information regarding the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS)
All RVC Grades 6 and above are automatically enrolled into the USS pension scheme under a Salary Sacrifice arrangement.
All relevant information for members or potential members is available on the USS website at:- https://www.uss.co.uk/
A full set of useful USS resources, including modellers, podcasts and videos is available here .
To register for MyUss please use the link : https://www.uss.co.uk/forms/pre-login/registration where you will find all of the relevant information about the USS pension scheme and the options for increasing benefits by paying additional contributions, either as cash contributions or percentage contributions.
For those who may be affected by the Pensions Tax regime information about the Lifetime Allowance and the Annual Allowance can be found here .
Information about DGS Chartered Financial Planners, an independent service, can be found here .
On-going changes to the USS pension scheme will be communicated via a 'Message of the Day' alert, the latest news update being March 2022.
The College is required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the specific duties of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.
These regulations underpin the Public Sector Equality Duty.
Gender Pay Reporting involves six calculations of the difference between the average earnings of men and women across the institution.
Therefore as part of our legislative requirement please see our Gender Pay Gap Reports, by year, below:
Gender Pay Gap Report 2021
Gender Pay Gap Report 2020
Gender Pay Gap Report 2019
Gender Pay Gap Report 2018
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
Everyone is on their own mental health journey but sometimes you can feel like no one understands what you’re going through.
Togetherall is an online community dedicated to sharing your feelings and experience.
Mental health does not define you but opening up to others and taking ownership of how you’re feeling is the first step in feeling better.
Togetherall is a digital mental health and wellbeing support service which is available online, 24/7 via computer, tablet or smartphone
To sign up visit the Colleges Mental Health Support page .
Further Wellbeing at Work information is available to employees via this link .
Important information regarding the Superannuation Arrangements of the University of London (SAUL)
RVC Grades 1 to Grade 5 are automatically enrolled into the SAUL Pension Scheme under a Salary Sacrifice arrangement .
All relevant information for members or prospective members is available on the SAUL website at:- http://www.saul.org.uk/ as well as the options for increasing benefits by paying additional contributions.
On-going changes to the SAUL pension scheme will be communicated via a 'Message of the Day' alert, the latest news update being August 2021.
The link below will take you to the relevant Employee and Manager reporting forms on the Intranet, as well as a link to the Coronavirus/Covid19 information page on the intranet.
HR Absence page
Voluntary Severance Scheme
The financial impact of the pandemic on the higher education sector as well as increasing pension costs and government funding constraints mean we must take necessary steps to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the RVC.
We have already taken measures to make savings, including a reduction in discretionary expenditure, freezing all non-essential staff recruitment and utilising the Government's Job Retention Scheme where possible.
We are also considering how we can grow our income.
However, these measures are insufficient in the longer-term and, regrettably, it is now necessary to reduce staff costs in order to restore our finances to a sustainable position.
To assist with this, we are now launching a Voluntary Severance Scheme.
Voluntary Severance Scheme Information
Voluntary Severance Scheme Q&A
Voluntary Severance Application Form
Summary :
One month’s pay for every completed year of service as at 13 May 2021 (the closing date of the scheme) with a minimum of five months’ pay and a maximum of ten months’ pay or £90k, whichever is the lower.
Severance payments are inclusive of a payment in lieu of contractual notice.
If you wish to apply for voluntary severance you should initially discuss your proposal with your Manager or Head of Department.
Applications for voluntary severance can be made between 15 April and 13 May 2021.
All applications will be considered during June by the Special Reward Panel and, subsequently, in the case of academic staff, by a Redundancy Committee of Council.
Decisions will be confirmed by 15 June 2021 with implementation by 31 July 2021 at the latest.
If you have any queries, please talk to your line manager in the first instance or refer to the Voluntary Severance Q&A.
If you wish to discuss any aspect of this with a member of the HR Team, please e-mail Cindy Pike, Director of HR, cpike@rvc.ac.uk, or Rebecca Costello, Deputy Director of HR, rcostello@rvc.ac.uk.
New Visa Points System (November 2020) With the changes arising from Brexit, the free movement of people from the EU/EEA and Switzerland will cease on 31st December 2020 (this excludes Irish nationals).
This will mean that ALL candidates recruited from overseas who meet the eligibility requirements will require a VISA going forward .
In line with this change, the Government has revised the UKVI Visa scheme to a new points based system.
From 1st Jan 2021, all overseas offered candidates will require a visa (including EU/EEA and Swiss Nationals) so this will need to be planned/factored into the process for start dates.
The briefing document below summarises the key changes to the new process, including the opportunity to recruit staff  in positions/roles and at a lower salary threshold than permitted under the current visa scheme.
Queries arising from the new Visa Points System should be directed to Claire Druce cdruce@rvc.ac.uk and Kathy Cobb kcobb@rvc.ac.uk
EU Settlement Scheme - Reminder to all EU, EEA and Swiss citizens
Following the UK’s decision to leave the EU, the requirement to finalise Brexit (called the transition period) will end on 31st December 2020.
The EU Settlement Scheme will allow you and your family members to obtain the immigration status you need to continue to live, work and study in the UK.
You must apply to the scheme by 30th June 2021 .
If successful, you will receive settled status or pre-settled status , depending on how long you have lived in the UK and you will receive digital proof of your confirmed status through an online service.
You do not need to apply if you are a British or Irish citizen, or you have indefinite leave to remain.
You apply online for pre-settled or settled status here .
If you need help or support with your application you can call the EU Settlement Resolution Centre on 0300 123 7379.
There are significant costs associated with applying for British citizenship/naturalisation and an Interest Free Loan for staff and their dependents may be available to help fund these personal costs.
In advance of the UK’s exit from the EU on 29 March 2019, the UK government has committed to protect the rights of EU citizens and their family members currently living in the UK.
This includes the right to live here, work here and access public services such as healthcare and benefits.
To retain these rights after 31 December 2020, EU citizens must apply for UK immigration status under the EU Settlement Scheme.
The Home Office is testing the EU Settlement Scheme through a series of pilots ahead of the public launch.
This second phase of the pilot has now started and runs until 21 December this year and covers employees in the higher education and health and social care sectors.
You will only be able to take part in the pilot if you are an employee of the Royal Veterinary College, and you are:
●            an EU citizen and have a valid biometric passport (this is an e-passport which has a digital chip)
●            a non-EU citizen family member employed by the RVC and have a biometric residence card with ‘EU Right to Reside’ on the back, which you have applied for on or after 6 April 2015
Please be aware that HR do not have any additional information on this pilot – nor can they advise whether your personal circumstances make you eligible to take part.
There is a Home Office Resolution Centre that can help with any individual queries and they can be contacted on 0300 123 7379 (inside the UK) and +44 (0) 20 3080 0010 (outside the UK)
You can also ask a question using the online submissions form eu-settled-status-enquiries.service.gov.uk .
For more information about the EU Settlement Scheme visit GOV.UK .
The attached document provides a detailed update on the progress we have made towards meeting the actions set out on the Athena SWAN Action Plan.
The RVC successfully achieved the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in October 2017.
Further information about the award is available here .
At the RVC we support our managers, and those aspiring to be managers, through our Management Development Programme (MDP).
The MDP is a collection of toolkits which supports managers as they move through the different stages of their development.
The programme is delivered in a modular format across both campuses through classroom type training and is further supported through our online toolkit literature.
This is a mandatory management course for all new staff at grade 6 or above with appraisal responsibility and presents a unique opportunity to build networks throughout the College with fellow managers.
Although this is mandatory for new staff, the programme provides a range of benefits and therefore current managers are strongly encouraged to register.
To view the online programme and for details on how to register please visit the following page: Management Development Programme
We are pleased to confirm that the RVC has been re-accredited by Department of Work and Pensions in the continued use of the Disability Confident Employer Scheme.
This is a national initiative and our re-accreditation confirms our commitment to recruiting, retaining and supporting disabled staff – further details about this initiative are available on the DirectGov website.
For further information, please contact Human Resources on hr@rvc.ac.uk or 01707 666380.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/equality:
The RVC actively promotes equality and diversity for all of our staff and students and we have a history of commitment to equality of opportunity.
We have worked hard to respond positively and constructively to the introduction of the Equality Act (2010).
Through our Athena SWAN Submission & Action Plan 2022 as well as our Equality and Diversity Committee and Equality Policies , we will work with staff and students from across the RVC and beyond, to promote the positive stories about what we have achieved already through inclusion and what we will be doing even better in the future.
The RVC is required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the specific duties of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.
Therefore as part of our legislative requirement please see our Gender Pay Gap reports below:
If you would like to get involved or have ideas or feedback about equality at the RVC , or would like information in an alternative format, then please contact us using the details in Who to Contact.
Contact the EDI Department on EDIOffice@rvc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/information-for-staff:
The pages in the left hand menu provide information about HR processes and procedures.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/forms-and-policies:
Download This page provides an easy to search list of forms and policies (note, any forms or policies marked with an * are only available to RVC employees).
P lease click on a link to download the required form (forms marked with an * are only available to RVC employees).
P lease click on a link to download the required policy (policies marked with an * are only available to RVC employees).

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/equality/athena-swan:
The Athena SWAN Charter is about advancing gender equality within the HE sector.
The scheme recognises excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics and Medicine (STEMM) in higher education.
In May 2015 the Charter was expanded to Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences, Business and Law (AHSSBL) and in professional services roles.
The RVC joined the Athena SWAN Charter with the endorsement of the Principal and the College Executive Committee (CEC).
Our first Self Assessment Team (SAT), chaired by Dr.
Christine Thuranira-McKeever, was successful in its submission for the Athena SWAN institutional bronze award in October 2017 (see below).
Progress made against the Athena SWAN Action Plan 2017-2021 is monitored by the Equality and Diversity Committee.
In 2021, a renewed (SAT) co-chaired by Dr.
Sharon Kendall and Professor Nicola Menzies-Gow started working on a new submission for the renewal of the Bronze award which was submitted to Advance HE in July 2022.
The beliefs underpinning the Charter are:
The six principles which Charter members are asked to accept and to incorporate into their action plans are:
The Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC) plays a pivotal role in steering the implementation of the Athena SWAN Action Plan.
Members of the EDC are acting as departmental Equality & Diversity Champions to promote equality and diversity within their departments.
A key area of their work is supporting the implementation of Athena SWAN actions through the development of their Departmental Equality and Diversity Action Plans.
To find out more about your Departmental Equality and Diversity Action Plan you can contact your local Equality and Diversity Champion .
If you would like further information on the Athena SWAN Action Plan, please contact Ferhat Nazir-Bhatti, Equality and Diversity Manager, fnazirbhatti@rvc.ac.uk .
The Athena SWAN Bronze Charter Mark is awarded for a period of 5 years (2017-2022).
A Self-Assessment Team(SAT) was established to support the preparation for the Athena SWAN renewal award in 2022.
THE SAT consisted of 22 members of staff each representing a different area of the RVC, including the Principal, and was established in 2021.
The Athena SWAN renewal was submitted in July 2022 to Advance HE, which is the awarding body for the charter.
Athena SWAN Bronze Renewal Form July 2022
Athena SWAN awards, and the application process involved, help universities improve the recruitment, retention and promotion of female academic and research staff and thus maintain a competitive advantage.
The RVC's Self Assessment Team (chaired by Dr Christine Thuranira-McKeever) is the group responsible for putting together our application to help the RVC achieve the organisational bronze award.
This has involved the release of a survey, a review of a number of academic policies affecting career development and progression, a review of baseline statistics and the development of an action plan which will help ensure the RVC meets the principles of the Athena SWAN Charter.
The group has submitted an application for the bronze award.
Updates will be posted on the intranet as soon as they are available.
Our Athena SWAN Submission & Action Plan 2017 is available here .
The attached document provides a detailed update on the progress we have made towards meeting the actions set out in the Athena SWAN Action Plan.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/equality/aurora-programme:
Aurora is a women-only leadership development programme run by Advance (HE) former Leadership Foundation for Higher Education.
Further details of the Aurora programme can be found on the following link: https://www.advance-he.ac.uk/programmes-events/aurora
The RVC is in its fourth year of sponsoring female staff to take part in the programme.
Below are comments from the Aurora participants of their Aurora experience.
As part of progressing our Athena SWAN action plan, the College has supported eight women to take part in the Aurora Women’s Leadership Programme run by Advance HE (former Leadership Foundation).
Below is feedback from some of the delegates who have attended the course.
“Participating in the Aurora course was a valuable and inspiring experience.
It gave us the opportunity to network and exchange ideas with women from all backgrounds working in higher education.
The sessions were very interactive providing an excellent environment to discuss daily challenges and difficulties and work collectively on solutions for a variety of problems.” Bettina Dunkel, Senior Lecturer, Equine.
“The Aurora course has been an inspiring and refreshing opportunity to meet new people and listen to experiences from effective leaders in a range of roles.
Hearing different perspectives has helped me reflect on how best to provide opportunities for people within and outside of RVC; I’m looking forward to putting what I’ve learnt into practice.” Dr Grace Mckintosh Sim, PSD.
“The Aurora Program reminded me that leadership isn’t just for those at the pinnacle of organisations, but is a quality which we can all develop and use to inspire and to influence our work colleagues.” Dr Camila Benfield, Lecturer, PPS.
Attached is an article by Charlotte Dawson: Lecturer in Ophthalmology on her career development journey.
The attached document shows the Aurora Process and Criteria.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/equality/equality-strategy-group:
The RVC's original Equality Strategy Group has been renamed Equality & Diversity Committee (EDC) to oversee all aspects of equality and to provide annual reports for the College Executive Committee and College Council.
The Equality and Diversity Committee, is made up of representatives from each department, who are are named Equality and Diversity Champions.
Their remit is to drive forward the equality and diversity agenda at the College.
Each Champion is working with their department to produce a departmental Equality and Diversity Action Plan based on the requirements set out in the Athena SWAN Action Plan and the College Equality Objectives and Action Plan.
This section is on the RVC intranet and holds the Terms of Reference, Objectives, Monitoring reports and Minutes of meetings as well as future meeting dates: Equality and Diversity Committee documents .
The Equality and Diversity Committee meets termly.
Equality and Diversity Committee dates .
The Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC) is comprised of various staff and student representatives and is chaired by Director of Distance Learning Programmes: Christine Thuranira McKeever.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/equality/equality-scheme:
The Equality Act was introduced to make UK organisations (especially public authorities such as Universities) more transparent as well as try to harmonise the various current equality strands into one single piece of legislation.
The Act proposed a general public equality duty on public authorities.
Universities, as well as the funding councils, are subject to this duty.
It replaced the three existing duties (relating to race, gender, disability) with a single duty covering the protected characteristics of race, sex, pregnancy and maternity, gender reassignment, disability, age, sexual orientation and religion or belief.
The duty requires HEIs to have due regard to the need to:
The Equality Objective and Action Plan 2020-2024 (EOAP) builds on the work undertaken since the last EOAP 2015-2019.
The new equality action plan will help us to further progress our work towards equality and diversity.
Progress update of Equality and Diversity Objectives and Action Plan 2015-2019
Equality Objectives and Action Plan 2020-2024
The RVC has developed the following Equality Policies:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/equality/equality-training-and-information:
As part of the RVC ’s commitment to equality and diversity, we are keen to ensure that all members of staff have undertaken up-to-date training in the area of equality & diversity as well provide equality data.
Information about the equality and diversity training on offer and the annual report is below.
We have implemented a web-based training package in order to facilitate the dissemination of equality & diversity training to all staff and enable individuals to undertake the training at their own convenience.
All new starters will be required to complete relevant on-line training courses, within 3 months of joining the RVC (successful completion will be a requirement for confirmation in post at the probation point).
New managers are also expected to complete a course on Inclusive Leadership.
Staff can access the online training hosted on the staff hub area of RVC Learn- details will be sent by Staff Training & Development via email.
As part of our commitment to the promotion of equality of opportunity, the RVC produces an annual Equal Opportunity Monitoring Report which assesses how well the RVC is doing in relation to its equality objectives.
To download the reports (PDF), please click on the following links:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/contact:
The RVC’s HR Department is structured to enable a customer-focused and responsive service to all departments as well as the general public.
Please see the HR Organisation Chart HR staff are located in room S2 on the second floor of the Eclipse Building, Hawkshead Campus.
For General HR enquiries or advice , please email hrqueries@rvc.ac.uk
For Employee Relations (ER) enquiries, guidance or advice, please email HR-EmpRel@rvc.ac.uk
For Recruitment enquiries, please email hrrecruitment@rvc.ac.uk
For Employee Lifecycle changes that need to be processed, please email hradministration@rvc.ac.uk
For Payroll enquiries, please email payrollteam@rvc.ac.uk
For HR Systems enquiries, please email hrsystems@rvc.ac.uk
For Development and Training enquiries, please e-mail training@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/human-resources/a-to-z:
Note, links marked with an * are only available to RVC employees.
A
Absence Policy (Leave and Absence Policy) Absence Reporting Form (Sickness Absence Personal Certificate)
Absence - Coronavirus Related Information and Forms
Absence Management (Sickness Absence)
*Absence Management Toolkit *Academic Staff Probation *Academic Staff Promotion *Academic Probation and Promotion Panel
* Accident Reports Additional Payment Request * Advert Adoption Leave Guide - UK Adoption Leave Checklist - UK Adoption Leave Application Form - UK Adoption Leave Guide - Overseas Adoption Leave Checklist - Overseas Adoption Leave Application Form - Overseas *Advisory Service (Care First) *Agency staff, employing Procurement of Agency staff Agency staff request form * Alcohol and Drug Related Problems * Allowances (Responsibility) *Annual Academic Probation Report Form Annual Leave Ante Natal Appointments Application - Current RVC Jobs * Appointments Procedure (For Vice Principals and Senior Management Group) * Appraisal *Appraisal-Briefing Sessions * Appraisal Notes for Guidance
*Apprenticeship Application Form
Athena SWAN Charter * Award (James Bee Educator Award)
B
*Bank Details (Change) *Behaviours Benefits Bonus (Special Awards) Bradford Factor Information Sheet Bullying-
C
*Care First Certificate - Employee Sickness *Certificate of Sponsorship - Migrant Workers *Change of Bank Details form Change of Hours form Change of Work Pattern form Change of CAPS Contract Authorisation form
Childcare Vouchers
Claim Forms
* Coaching at the RVC Compassionate Leave General Complaints Resolution Procedure Composition of Appointments Committees for Academic Posts Concordat Code of Practice and Guide (to the Management and Development of Research Staff) Concessionary days
* Consultative Committee for Staff (JNCC) Counselling
Coronavirus Related Information and Forms
CRB Storage Handling Information
CV (Standard RVC Format)
D
Departmental Weekly Sickness Record Dignity at Work Policy
Supporting Student Toolkit
Disability Statement Disciplinary Procedure Data Protection Policy Display Screen Equipment (DSE) Assessment
E * Eligibility to Work in the UK Emergency Family Leave Employee Sickness - Self Certificate Employees Responsibilities (Sickness) Employment Health Surveillance Pre-Screening * Employee Assistance Programme * Employee Self Service - On Site (this link will direct you to the intranet - navigate to MyHR ESS link in the quick links to access self service) * Employee Self Service - Off Site *Employing Migrant Workers Equality and Diversity Equality Scheme (Single) and Action Plan Equality and Diversity Policy
Equal Opportunities Monitoring Reports Equal Pay Policy Exit Interview *Extended Range Application Form * Extended Range Policy and Practice
F
Family Friendly Guides and Policies
Flexible Working Guide
Financial Advice Service for RVC Employees * Funding Application Form - External Events
G
Gender Equality
Gender Pay Gap 2021 Gender Pay Gap 2020 Gender Pay Gap 2019 Gender Pay Gap 2018 Gender Pay Gap 2017
Grievance -
* Gym Induction RVC (You will need to Login to RVC Learn, using your network Login details to access information about the Gym Induction)
H
Harassment -
Report and Support HEA (Higher Education Academy) (external link) Health and Safety * HERA (Guidance and forms) * HERA (Job Evaluation) * HERA Role Outline Form - New Posts *HERA Regrading Application Form HESA (Higher Education Statistical Agency) HMRC contact information
Holiday Record * How to Book on a Training Course for Internal Delegates How to Book on a Training Course for External Delegates HR Organisational Structure
I
Incapacity Procedure
Increment Annual Review Policy *Induction *Induction and Objectives Form - New Starter (Professional Services staff only)
Intellectual Property Policy *i Trent Manager Self Service (this link will direct you to the intranet - navigate to iTrent MSS link in the quick links to access manager self service)
J
James Bee Educator Award * Joint Negotiating Consultative Committee (JNCC) * Job Description - HERA Format
* Job Evaluation (HERA) * Job Evaluation HERA Role Outline Form - New Posts * Job Evaluation HERA Role Outline Form - Regrading Jury Service
K
KILT (Kings Institute of Learning and Teaching) (external link) Keeping In Touch Days - Claim Form L
Launching Absence Management in your area * Leave of Absence and Foreign Travel Fund application form (Link to Research Forms) Leave and Absence Policy Leaver Form * Leaver Report London Weighting Policy M Managers Induction Checklist
Managers Leavers Checklist *Management Development Programme Manager Self Service *Management Referral Advice for Managers *Management Referral Advice for Employees Maternity Leave Checklist Maternity Leave Guide Maternity Leave and Pay Application Form Maternity cover recruitment guide
*Menopause at work * Mental Health Support, Togetherall Mentoring Guide
* Mentoring Schemes at the RVC
MyHR Employee Self Service - On Site (this link will direct you to the intranet - navigate to MyHR ESS link in the quick links to access self service) MyHR Employee Self Service - Off Site N
*New Starter - Induction and Objectives Form (Professional Services staff only)
Notes of Guidance for Mentors
Notice of entitlement and intention shared parental leave form
O
Observation in Teaching Scheme
Occupational Health * Online Appraisal Form * Online Appraisal Form User Guidance * Online Staff Request Form * Online Staff Training Application Form Ordinance 16 - Professors, Readers and Teachers
Organisation Chart (for HR Dept.)
*Overseas Workers - Guidance for Managers and Employees
P
Parental Leave Guide
Paternity Leave
PAYE reference number Payment Claim Forms
Pay Award Pay queries Payroll dates Payslip queries Pensions *PensionPlus Personal Employee Sickness Self Certificate *Person Specification - HERA Format * Policy and Procedure For Dealing with Allegations of Research Misconduct * Policy for the Provision of Veterinary Services for Animal belonging to Employees and Students *Probation and Promotion - Academic Staff *Probation - Professional Services Staff Public Interest Disclosure Policy and Procedures
Q
Updating your Qualification information
Quick Guide for New Managers at the RVC
R
*Recognition Award Application Form - Individual * Recognition Award Application Form - Team * Recognition Award Policy and Practice * Recruitment *Recruitment Authority Approval Process.
* Recruitment Toolkit Redeployment (see Redundancy Procedure ) Redundancy Procedure *Reference Policy Guidelines / Statement Relationships at Work- Guidelines Relationships - Declaration of a Personal Relationship at work form Relocation Expenses Relocation Expenses Form Report and Support Research Staff - Code of Practice and Guide to the Management and Development * Research Misconduct (Policy and Procedure for Dealing with Allegations) *For student related research misconduct issues, please download the following policy: Academic Misconduct (internal only) Resignations
Resignation Form * Resolving Issues Toolkit *Responsibility Allowances
* Results Through People Toolkit Retirement Return to Work Interview Form * Right to Work Checklist * Ride2Work Scheme (CyclePlus) Role Outline Form - HERA
*RVC Behaviours
S
Salary Scale
Season Ticket Loan Application
Season Ticket Loan Policy Self Certificate - Employee Sickness *Senior Academic Promotion Process Shared Parental Leave
Sickness absence procedures Sickness - Employees Responsibilities Single Equality Scheme and Action Plan (currently being updated and will be published shortly) Social Media Policy *Special Awards Application Form - Individual *Special Awards Application Form - Team * Special Awards Policy and Practice * Special Reward Panel * SRP Terms of Reference .
Staff Benefits * Staff Request Form (Casual) * Staff Request Form (Online) Staff Training and Development Staff Development Policy * Staff Training and Development Programme * Staff Training Application Form - Internal Events Staff Training Application Form - External Delegates Staff Training Evaluation Form Statute 15 (Formally Statute 18) Statute Schedule Strategy (HR) Supporting Student Toolkit Superannuation Arrangements of the University of London - SAUL (external link)
T
Tax Office contact information
Teaching Observation Scheme Telephone Proforma for Recording Absence Template for Local Sickness Reporting Time off for Ante Natal Appointments - Father/Partner Toolkits *Togetherall - Mental Health Support * Trade Union Contact Details Training and Development * Training Agreement Training Application Form - External Delegates * Training Application Form - Internal Delegates Events Training Evaluation Form * Training Programme Transgender Policy Travel Disruption Guidance * Travel Expenses for Staff (Link to Finance web-page) * Travelling on College Business (Link to Finance web-page)
U
* Union Contact Details
Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS)
Unpaid Leave
V
*VISA BR Citizenship Loan Application form *VISA Reimbursement Application form *UK Visa Immigration Fees Policy (2021)
W
Weekly Sickness Record Form * Well-Being at Work Whistle Blowing Policy and Procedure Working in Hot Conditions: Guidelines for Managers (link to Estates page)
* Working from Home

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/library-services:
The Library is divided between two sites; Camden, located in central London, and Hawkshead, located near Potters Bar, just north of the M25.
Both are intended primarily for use by students and staff of The Royal Veterinary College.
External visitors may consult the libraries' stock by prior arrangement only.
Borrowing is not allowed, but visitors may make photocopies of library material, subject to standard copyright restrictions, at their own expense.
The material at Camden reflects the pre-clinical and taught post-graduate courses there, while the Hawkshead stock covers the clinical and taught post-graduate courses at that site.
Most veterinary material is at Hawkshead.
Search our library catalogue , or telephone 01707 666457 to find out whether we have what you want and where it is held.
Please telephone or email library@rvc.ac.uk in advance to make an appointment, 24 hours' notice is preferable.
Be advised that, for reasons of security, the porters have standing instructions to turn away any visitor without an appointment.
Please bring some form of identification with you such as a student card, driving license or passport.
If visiting The Royal Veterinary College Library under the Sconul Access Scheme, please be sure to telephone or email library@rvc.ac.uk in advance to arrange an appointment.
Please bring an additional form of identification such as a student card, driving licence or passport in addition to your Sconul Access Scheme Card.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/it-services:
The Information Services Directorate (ISD) promotes and supports the effective use and development of information technology (IT) throughout the RVC.
The division strives to ensure that IT is used in an appropriate manner in order to:
IT Helpdesk, Library and AV staff are centrally based in the Learning Resources Centres at each campus:
Regular 'Laptop Clinics' are also held within the Learning Centres to assist students configure their personal equipment for the RVC's network and email system.
Monday - Friday 9.00am to 5.00pm (AV and telephone support from 8.00 am)
The Helpdesk also operates an Out of Hours service which can be telephoned for IT advice and assistance during evenings, weekends and Bank Holidays – please contact the Helpdesk for further details:
Out of hours: Mon - Fri 5.00pm to 8.00am and 24hr/day at weekends & Bank Holidays.
Open Access computing rooms are also available to students when the Libraries are closed providing 24 hour access to IT facilities (access to the computer rooms can be made by swiping a valid ID card at the entrances).
See IT Policies and Regulations (on Intranet) for documentation related to the use of IT resources (RVC computers, internet, telephones, printers.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/eduroam:
Eduroam ( edu cational roam ing), is a single, secure, wireless internet service available at the RVC and many other participating institutions worldwide.
Students and staff at the Royal Veterinary College can use the wireless at any institution that participates in the eduroam service using the same username and password they use to log onto the wireless on the RVC campuses.
Once your wireless device is setup for use at the RVC, it will work at any eduroam location.
Further information about eduroam can be found at http://www.eduroam.org .
The Royal Veterinary College operates both a "home" and a "visited" eduroam wireless service.
There are a number of benefits to the eduroam wireless service:
The RVC operates a “Home” service which means that when you are away at another eduroam-enabled institution, you can use your RVC credentials to connect to the internet via their eduroam service.
The operation of eduroam is dependent on operation of the other wifi networking services within the RVC.
If you have pre-configured your eduroam connection as per the instructions provided and are still having difficulty connecting, please check if there are any current issues with the RVC systems at the LISD Helpdesk or check the eduroam troubleshooting guide .
Please contact IT support in your own organisation
Users must not share or encourage the sharing of eduroam credentials between each other.
For instance, a user might want to provide temporary access for a friend or a visiting lecturer from a non-eduroam organisation might want immediate network access.
It should be clear that this is not acceptable or safe behaviour.
Your password is not simply something that provides network access but is also a critical part of your online identity i.e.
it is like a driving licence or passport and MUST NOT be shared with anyone .
Lending your eduroam credentials to a friend would result in you being held accountable for any misuse.
It's also worth remembering that these credentials do not just provide access to a network, but will often provide access to e-mail, file storage and VPNs that may contain highly personal and sensitive information.
Visitors from an organisation that provides an eduroam “home” service for their staff and/or students should be able to use eduroam at the RVC.
Before your visit, you should set up your device according to your own organisation’s instructions.
Instructions on this page will only work for Royal Veterinary College staff and students.
If you have already configured your laptop/mobile device, you should be able to connect to the “eduroam” wireless network (SSID) in any of the wireless locations listed:
The operation of eduroam is dependent on operation of the other Wi-Fi networking services within the RVC.
If you have pre-configured your eduroam connection as per instructions provided by your home organisation and are still having difficulty connecting, please check if there are any current issues with your relevant campus helpdesk.
If you have any issues connecting to eduroam, support should be provided by your own organisation.
Whilst using eduroam, you are bound not only by the Royal Veterinary College IT Acceptable Use Policy but also by JANET Acceptable Use policy and any similar policies in your own organisation.
There are installers available for a number of common operating systems.
These need to be configured before trying to connect to the eduroam network at The Royal Veterinary College as the installer and certificate need to be downloaded from the network.
Please note the following:
Alternatively, you can download generic instructions and eduroam settings which may help you configure unlisted devices.
If after following these instructions, you require additional assistance, please contact the LISD Helpdesk.
Note: You should remove any previous eduroam connection or profile from your device before using the geteduroam app.
Download the geteduroam app from the Google Play store:
Type in and search for the Royal Veterinary College under institution:
Sign in with your RVC email address and password and click Connect to Network:
You should now be connected to Eduroam, click Ok to exit:
Download the geteduroam app from the Apple App Store:
Type in and search for Royal Veterinary College under institution and click Next:
Sign in with your RVC email address and password, click Connect to network:
You should now be connected to Eduroam, exit the app to continue:
If your particular wifi device is not supported by the get eduroam app you should use the eduroam Configuration Assistant Tool instead.
Connect to the eduroam Configuration Assistant Tool from this link .
iPhone/iPad
Android
Eduroam is available in the following buildings: H20, H20C, H21, H23, H25, H30, H50, H51, H52A, H52D, H53, H56, H56L, H57, H58, H60, H75, H75 Blocks A-I, H76, H77, Houses 1-17.
Eduroam is available in the following buildings: C20, C21, C50, C60, C77.
See Campus maps (on the RVC Intranet - login required) for a key to the building numbers.
The generic settings specified below will allow you to configure a suitable wireless device to connect to the eduroam secure wireless network.
Not all the configuration settings will be available on all devices.
If you cannot configure any of these settings it is unlikely your wireless device is capable of connecting to the eduroam wireless network.
If you are having problems with certificates or cannot get your device working you may need to download and install the three certificates as shown below to your device:
If you are a member of the Royal veterinary College staff or a student, have configured your device to connect to eduroam and are still having problems, please check the following:
When you have configured your device, it should work when you are within range of a live eduroam visitor service.
You can test your eduroam connection at the RVC before going to another eduroam-enabled organisation.
If it works here, then it should also work when you visit any other eduroam-enabled organisation without modifying your settings.
In order for eduroam to work, you need to logon with your username (including domain, i.e.
@rvc.ac.uk).
For further details, please consult the appropriate setup guide for your operating system/device as listed on the eduroam page
If you have configured your device and have previously connected successfully to eduroam at another organisation, the issues may be caused by one from the following list.
Please check these, and if you are still experiencing difficulties, contact the IT Helpdesk .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/it-password-management:
Computer accounts and passwords are issued to staff and students for activities that conform with the RVC IT User policy and other regulations relating to permissible use of the College's equipment and network infrastructure.
For full details, see documents in Policies and Regulations (on Intranet) section.
To apply for an account, please complete the New User Request Form .
For security of accounts, a password policy is in operation that requires that passwords meet the following criteria:
For example, E7ephant, Eleph@nt or elephanT1 would all be acceptable.
All newly setup IT users at the RVC receive a temporary password for accessing their IT accounts.
In order to gain full access to RVC online services and privileges (e.g.
Email, Learn, Athens), users must change this temporary password to a more secure, personal one.
To change your password at any time, follow any of the following options:
If you have forgotten your password, please contact the IT Helpdesk:
Remember that changing your RVC password will impact all online services that require login.
For example, you must change your login details for signing onto the eduroam wireless network, email application etc.
to reflect your new password.
Please note the server retains the list of the last 10 passwords so that you cannot immediately revert to the previous password used.
Passwords should not be divulged to friends, colleagues or in response to any email.
All users must adhere to the RVC's Acceptable Use Policy when using the College's IT services.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/office-365-account/multi-factor-authentication:
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) helps provide extra security for Email and some RVC web applications.
When activated, a user not only requires their regular RVC username and password when remotely accessing their college email account, but will also be asked for additional verification, in the form of a prompt sent to an authentication app or a phone call.
The remote portal (RDWeb) rdweb.rvc.ac.uk has  been activated for MFA and  will affect most staff users.
Users must have MFA enabled to connect to RDWeb from now on and must be using the either the app or phone call method of authentication.
The way you log in to RDWeb is described below depending on your current set up:
Doc1 - Users MFA activated with authenticator app notification.PDF
Doc2 - Users MFA activated with phone call.PDF
Doc3 - Changing MFA Authentication Method to Phone Call.PDF
Doc5 - Enabling MFA on your RVC Account.PDF
Doc6 - Updating your mobile phone number.PDF
Doc7 - Changing your MFA authentication method from Phone Call to Authenticator App Notification.PDF
Doc 8 Using MFA App with Number Verification.PDF

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/office-365-account/mailboxes-and-calendars:
This page answers Frequently Asked Questions related to Office 365 Email and Calendar tasks and functionality.
Please see the help options below.
If you have a question that is not addressed below, please contact the IT help desk at helpdesk@rvc.ac.uk .
A note if you are using Outlook on a Mac, once your account is migrated, your new Outlook should auto-configure.
However, you might receive a popup message that first time you open it.
If you click the box next to Always use my response for this server , and click OK, you won't get the popup message again:
In order to view or manage another user's email inbox, you must first be given Folder Visible permission by the mailbox owner.
Right-click the root folder of the your mailbox (where it says username@rvc.ac.uk ), and then click Folder Permissions:
Click Add and search for the name of the mailbox you want to share:
When the mailbox you want to view appears in the list, click it and then check the box next to Folder visible.
Click OK :
Under Permissions , under Other , select the Folder Visible check box.Click OK .
Click the File tab, then Account Settings , and then click Account Setting s .
On the Account Settings window, double click your mailbox:
On the window that pops up, click More Settings:
Click the Advanced tab, then Add to search for the user whose mailbox you want to access:
Click OK to finish adding the mailbox to your own Outlook profile.
If you are using Outlook on a Mac, you can access another user's mailbox or calendar by following these steps:
Click the Outlook menu and choose Preferences.
In the Outlook Preferences window, under Personal Settings , click Accounts:
Select your account from the Account list and click Advanced…
Select the Delegates tab and click + under ‘ People I am a delegate for’:
Search for the user who’s account you wish to access, select them from the list, and click OK:
The user account will now be listed under ‘ People I am a delegate for: ’ Click OK to confirm the changes and close the Advanced properties window.
To delegate account access to another user, click the Outlook menu and choose Select Accounts from the Outlook Preferences screen, located under Personal Settings :
Select the account you wish to share from the Account list and click Advanced…
Select the Delegates tab and click + under ‘ Delegates who can act on my behalf:’ to add a new delegate:
Search for the user you wish to delegate access to, select them from the list and click OK :
From here you can specify which aspects of your account you shall share with the delegate.
Review the permissions of what level of access you wish to provide for each aspect and click OK to confirm.
The user account will now be listed under ‘ Delegates who can act on my behalf: ’ Click OK to confirm the changes and close the Advanced properties window:
To open a mailbox that you have access to using your browser inbox, click the profile picture in the top right corner of your mailbox, then choose Open another mailbox .
Search for the mailbox you wish to view, then click OK:
To add a calendar to your Outlook profile, click Calendar and then choose From Address Book .
Search for the account you want to add, then click OK to add it to your profile:
To remove a calendar from your Outlook profile, right click the account name you want to delete in your list of calendars and choose Delete Calendar :
If you are using your browser to access your email/calendar, you can view another user's calendar by clicking the grid icon in the top right corner of your inbox page and choosing Calendar :
On the Calendar page, click the drop down link for Add calendar .
From the menu that appears, you can add from a file or from the RVC directory.
If you choose 'From directory' you'll be shown a search box that allows you to look for a specific user/profile:
Once you click on the appropriate user, the associated calendar will be listed under your own on your Calendar page, colour coded in a way that distinguishes their appointments from your own.
To remove a calendar, simply right click on it where it's listed under My calendars and choose Remove :

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/office-365-account/phishing-scams:
Phishing is a form of social engineering where the attacker attempts to trick people into revealing private information by sending spoofed e-mails that appear to be from reputable companies.
Phishing e-mails provide a link to a seemingly authentic website where you can login and reveal your username, password and other personal identifying information.
Online scammers can then use this information to access your accounts, gather additional private information about you, and make purchases or apply for credit in your name.
What can I do to protect myself?
The RVC has sophisticated filters that attempt to protect you from receiving malicious emails and spam emails.
All computers supported by IT have antivirus and Anti-Malware software installed which acts as a second line of defence.
Unfortunately, the perpetrators of malicious email are aware of these defences and are constantly innovating.
Report a phish by emailing helpdesk@rvc.ac.uk.
You can forward phishing attempts to this email.
Spear phishing targets a specific person or group of people (usually within a specific organisation).
Spear phishing e-mails are tailored to match internal communications at the target organisation and may even include personal details.
A good resource to help identify and avoid falling for a phishing scam is Get Safe Online's Spam and Scam email page.
Some tips from Bank Safe Online:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/office-365-account/ransomware:
Ransomware — a type of malware which ‘locks’ the files on a computer and then demands payment to unlock them — is a growing threat all across the world.
Ransomware attacks are launched via phishing scam email and a successful attack could have a major impact on your data and that of your colleagues.
The method of infection depends on what ransomware is being distributed, but the most common means of infection are:
The anti-virus and anti-malware protection should prevent this sort of thing from happening on the RVC PCs, and it is still essential that you have an up to date anti-virus protection on your personal PC/Mac.
Whilst we are taking steps to help prevent infection of this virus, please be vigilant when opening emails and attachments and when downloading files.
If you’re not expecting it you should delete it.
Ransomware emails seen at the RVC have had the following subject lines:
You should take extra care with emails with these subject lines but also be aware that the attacker could use any subject which might hope to attract your attention.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/printing-copying-scanning:
All-in-one printer/scanner/copiers have been installed for student use in common and Open Access areas at Camden and Hawkshead.
These printers make it more convenient and less expensive for students to print, copy, and add printer credit to their accounts.
Other features include:
More detailed printing instructions are available below.
To print from an RVC campus computer:
You can send print jobs on campus via your web browser and collect from one of the printers around the college.
After you have sent a document to the print queue at Camden or Hawkshead can print it from any printer in the building.
Printers and multi-function printer/copier/scanners are located throughout the Camden and Hawkshead campuses:
F4
Hobday
To make a copy of a document, swipe your card on the card reader.
From the main menu on the printer screen, select Copy , place your document in the document tray or atop the scanner window, and follow the directions to make your copies.
The price for copying is the same as printing.
To scan a document, swipe your card and select Email from the main menu on the printer screen.
Because you have used your RVC card to sign in, the email will be addressed to your RVC email automatically.
Place the document you wish to scan in the document tray or atop the scanner window, and select the option to Send Email that is at the top of the screen to send the scanned document as an attachment.
Sending a scanned copy of a document to yourself is not subject to any costs.
Copyright: All members of the College must adhere to UK copyright law.
The College has a license from the Copyright Licensing Authority which sets out what may be copied; i.e.
up to one chapter from a book, and one article from a journal issue.
Such copies can only be used for private study or research.
(Full details of the Copyright Protection Act can be found in the Policies and Regulations section - if in doubt please consult the Copyright officer sjackson@rvc.ac.uk ).
The new system will also allow you to view a history of your transactions and of your recent print jobs, along with any jobs that are pending release.
From the myprint.rvc.ac.uk website you can also top up your credit, upload jobs for printing via your browser and request a refund if any of your pages didn’t print correctly.
For instructions see How to use myprint.rvc.ac.uk (.docx).
All printing and copying done by RVC students and staff is bound by the College's Printing Acceptable Use Policy .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/microsoft-teams:
Microsoft will retire Skype for Business in July 2021.
Software and telecommunication vendors have started migrating and aligning their products and services towards Microsoft Teams.
We have started our preparations to migrate to Microsoft Teams, to ensure a timely and smooth transition, and to make sure our infrastructure is ready for all internal and external communication requirements and demands.
Microsoft Teams is an online team collaboration tool designed to bring staff and students together in an online space.
It provides a platform for video conferencing, real-time discussions, document sharing and editing, and more.
It is fully integrated with Microsoft Office 365 and fits into the College’s existing Microsoft Windows environment.
There are five main components in Microsoft Teams:
Team – A virtual “building” where all invited members enter to collaborate.
Learn more about Team here (external site)
Channel – An individual “room” within the “building” that may be open to all team members or locked as invite-only.
Administrators can create multiple “rooms” with specific categories such as interest groups, sectional groups within a department, special events, etc.
Learn more about Channel here (external site)
Channel Tabs – Allows you to “pin” posts, files, apps, and more to each channel you visit.
They are not universal, so one channel may have different tabs from another.
Activity Feed – Connects all channels like a makeshift hallway so you can receive mentions, replies, and other notifications associated with the channels you visit.
Learn more about Activity Feed here (external site)
Chat – Private chats between you and other team members.
Learn more about Chat here (external site)
You can start familiarising yourself with Microsoft Teams from their training site (external site).
There is also a great collection of “How to” videos on YouTube (external site).
As the migration process continues more support information and guidance on how Microsoft Teams is implemented at the RVC will be available.
Any meetings which are already scheduled in your calendar as Skype for Business meetings will remain on the Skype for Business platform.
You have two choices.
You can either leave these as Skype for Business meetings and join using the Skype for Business client as before, or you can delete them and create them using Microsoft Teams.
If you choose to leave the meetings as Skype for Business meetings, you should be aware that at some stage after the completion of the migration to Microsoft Teams, we will stop using Skype For Business, and it will be removed from all RVC computers.
Notice will be given well in advance of the end date.
You can reschedule any remaining Skype for Business meetings to Microsoft Teams.
Extension numbers are legacy from the old analogue telephone system from years ago.
When Microsoft Teams is rolled out to the College, it will eliminate the need for extension numbers.
In fact, extension numbers will no longer work in Microsoft Teams.
You should remove any references from all departmental documents and your email signatures.
If you are on site and wish to contact someone within the College, you search for them by name on Microsoft Teams and then select the user to connect.
If you are away from your desk, you can download the Microsoft Teams app onto your smartphone, sign in and then contact the user.
If you are off site, you can use the Microsoft Teams app on your smartphone.
You may need to go through multi factor authentication.
Alternatively, you can call the main College switchboard and they will connect you to the user.
If you wish to contact an external person, launch the dial pad on Microsoft Teams and dial the number.
If an external person wishes to contact you, they will call the main College switchboard and they will then connect the call to you on Microsoft Teams.
If you wish an external caller to contact you directly, you can give them your direct dial number.
You can find out what your number is by launching the dial pad on Microsoft Teams and look underneath it in the My number area.
It is your responsibility to decide who to give your direct dial number to .
Anyone who has the number can call you directly.
To make a test call*, select Settings and more next to your profile picture at the top of Teams and then choose Settings > Devices.
Choose Make a test call under Audio devices.
In a test call, you'll see how your mic, speaker, and camera are working.
Follow the instructions from Test Call Bot and record a short message.
The message will play back for you.
After that, you'll get a summary of the test call, and you can go to your device settings to make changes.
*The test call feature is currently only available in Teams desktop app for Windows and Mac.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/lisd/contact-us:
Library, AV and IT Helpdesk staff are based in the Learning Resources Centres at each campus:
The enquiry desks for the Infrastructure Services Directorate (ISD) services are located in the main entrances to the Library at each campus.
IT Helpdesk hours of operation are: Monday - Friday 9.00am to 5.00pm (AV and telephone support from 8.00 am)
The IT Helpdesk also operates an Out of Hours service which can be telephoned for IT advice and assistance on the usual number during evenings, weekends and Bank Holidays.
Monday - Friday
Saturday
Sunday
8.00 am - 8.00pm
9.00am - 6.00pm
12.00 - 4.00pm
Saturday & Sunday
9.00am - 7.00pm
Closed (computer rooms available)
Closed
9.00am - 5.00pm
Many Library services are also available online to carry out information searches, renew books etc.
at any time.
Access the library catalogue
Please note that Open Access computing facilities are still available when the Libraries are closed - alternate access routes to the computer rooms can be used by swiping your ID card at the entrances.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/camden/accommodation:
Committed to the Capital in your first year?
In Camden there are two halls which accommodate RVC students - College Grove (on site) and Mary Brancker House which is a 20 minute walk away in Kentish Town.
Both are self catered and all students have their own ensuite room.
Living in accommodation is a fantastic way to meet new students who are all in the same situation as you (just try not to be the person setting the fire alarm off at 3.00am on a cold February morning while burning your toast!).
Due to increasing student numbers, additional accommodation is sourced with a third party provider, details about this accommodation will be sent at the time of application.
For those going into their 2nd year, unfortunately, it is not possible to remain in Camden accommodation, we therefore strongly recommend getting in touch with the
University of London Housing Services who offer a wealth of advice and support.
College Grove is currently undergoing a substantial refurbishment which will significantly improve the facilities.
It will be available to applicants for the 2025-26 academic year, with 71 rooms in total, each with their own ensuite bathroom.
Rooms are arranged in a group of six (one flat of five) with a shared kitchen/living space.
The weekly rate is set at £285.75 and licence agreement is set for a fixed period of 48 weeks (51 weeks for *Post Grads) September – August (*September).
More information to follow!
Late Spring, colleagues in Admissions Office will send out accommodation packs out to all prospective 1st year students.
If you are successful in gaining a room a confirmation letter will be sent sometime during July.
Upon receipt of A-level results, Unite Students will make contact, by telephone, and will process your application and forward tenancy documents.
You will be asked to pay deposit and first instalment at this time.
Email : accommodation@rvc.ac.uk
The building is monitored 24-7 by CCTV and every effort has been made to make the building as secure as possible.
A maintenance team and a hospitality team are on-hand to help you, with additional support from the student resident coordinators.
Mary Brancker House is located in the cosmopolitan area of Kentish Town within 20 minutes walking distance of the College.
Central London and the West End are easily accessible and the trendy bars and live music venues of Camden are within walking distance.
For everyday essentials, there is a Tesco, Morrisons and Iceland on Kentish Town High Street along with numerous banks and other amenities.
Camden Market is also only a stone’s throw away offering a fantastic selection of global cuisine.
The weekly rate is £285.75 (tariff reviewed on an annual basis).
This is inclusive of utility bills, contents insurance (please see Unite Students Mary Brancker House for details) and use of secure bike storage.
All tenancies are for a fixed 50 week period (September to September).
Internet connection is available in all rooms, this is free of charge.
An advance rent payment of £250 will be charged at time of booking.
Turn right out of Holmes Road and walk straight down Kentish Town Road.
Follow road until it veers off to the left down through Royal College Street (see map).
Alternatively take the 134 or 214 bus from Kentish Town Road, however, journey time approximately 25 minutes depending on traffic and time waiting for the bus.
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7485 7687
You can also visit our main website, where you can find out lots more information and view other properties owned by Unite Students at www.unitestudents.com/london
Garden Halls : Garden Halls | Halls | University of London
Tenancy
Garden Halls : 40 weeks (Sept 2025 - June 2026)
Fees (2025/2026)
Garden Halls : £304.19 - £324.42 per week.
Tariff reviewed on annual basis.
Refundable deposit of £500.00 will be charged
Upon receipt of A-level results, University of London Housing Services (ULHS) will make contact and forward tenancy documents etc.
Read more about www.london.ac.uk/halls
If living in halls doesn’t appeal to you, privately rented accommodation can be found all over London.
However, there are pros and cons to this arrangement.
You will be able to live by your own rules (although preferably within the landlord’s!) but things can be tricky if you have problems with a challenging landlord, or other tenants.
It’s up to you of course, but most students usually consider living in private accommodation after their first year, once they’ve got a feel for the place and know who they want to live with.
University of London Housing Services (ULHS) maintains a landlord registration scheme, operates a contact list for students offering or wanting accommodation, and assists with tenancy agreement, deposit and rent queries.
It supplies a Tenancy Agreement Pack for most self-contained accommodation, a Licence Pack for accommodation with a resident landlord, and lists of registered accommodation agencies, hostels and inexpensive hotels.
University of London Housing Services, University of London Union, Malet Street, London WC1E 7HY Telephone: +44 (0)20 7862 8880 Email: housing@lon.ac.uk www.housing.london.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1707 666 943 +44 (0) 1707 669 358 accommodation@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/boltons-park-farm:
Based at the Hawkshead Campus in Hertfordshire, Boltons Park Farm is our farm animal practical teaching facility.
The farm consists of 200 hectares of mainly grazing grass, along with 14 hectares of wildlife stewardship plots planted last year and 20 hectares of ancient mixed woodland along with the younger woods that we have planted over the years.
Boltons Park Farm is currently milking 100 Premium Cattle Health Scheme IBR and BVD accredited pedigree Holstein Friesian cows and rear 70 young stock.
Students can get involved in all aspects of the dairy.
Also on the farm are 600 sheep of mixed breeds that mostly graze all year in the fields.
Also, 115 laying hens are on the farm with eggs sold to staff, students and local residents.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/museums:
Since its foundation in 1791, the RVC has catalogued and preserved thousands of items, including official records, books, museum objects and memorabilia, all of which record the history of veterinary medicine and science.
Visitors to the College can search our catalogued rare books collection by appointment and using the library catalogue search .
Contact the library to enquire or make an appointment to view the RVC’s rare books collection

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-campuses/hawkshead/accommodation:
Our Hawkshead Campus is near Potters Bar – which makes it within easy reach of central London by train – yet the campus is set in the tranquility of the Hertfordshire countryside.
The 600 acre campus boasts a café and restaurant, state of the art library, outdoor sports facilities, a Sports and Wellbeing Centre that includes a gym, a student bar and comfortable, quiet social learning spaces!
Most students studying here choose to live here – although it’s also perfect for Camden-based students (not applicable to prospective 1st yrs) who would prefer to get away from the hustle and bustle of London.
The Hawkshead Campus has 24 hour security, support from the Accommodation Team, Student Resident Co-ordinators and an onsite Maintenance Team.
Apart from the added bonus of College Close being on campus, it is within walking distance of the local village, Brookmans Park, and a couple of miles from the main town of Potters Bar with good access to shops, supermarkets, banks and public transport.
A free shuttle service is provided to students between the Hawkshead Campus and Potters Bar station seven days a week - see RVC Shuttle Bus Timetable .
There is a regular train service between Potters Bar and Kings Cross – the journey taking just 20 minutes!
Accommodation is offered to our 1st year Veterinary Nursing Students.
We hope to be able to offer a place to all Nurses who apply.
However, if the number applying is greater than the number of places available, preference is given to overseas residents and applicants with home addresses some distance from the College.
For your 2nd, 3rd and 4th year you will you will only be eligible to apply for accommodation if undertaking a placement at the Queen Mother Hospital or if requiring accommodation as a result of extenuating circumstances.
Accommodation remains subject to availability.
The weekly rate is £166.00 (tariff reviewed on an annual basis).
This includes all utility bills i.e electricity and water but excludes a TV licence.
A one week room holding deposit is required following successful application.
As there is a ‘no fixed term contract’ for College Close, short term lets are available, therefore, flexible around theory block and placements.
First years will receive details on how to apply via our colleagues in Admissions, May/June time.
Returning Nurses will be asked to 'express an interest' July/August time.
Accommodation is subject to availability and not guaranteed.
Accommodation Office The Royal Veterinary College Hawkshead Lane North Mymms Hatfield Hertfordshire AL9 7TA
Email: accommodation@rvc.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)1707 66 6943 / +44 (0)1707 66 9358
It is within walking distance of the local village, Brookmans Park and is a couple of miles from the main town of Potters Bar with good access to shops, supermarkets, banks and public transport.
The contract period is for a fixed term of 46 weeks.
Weekly rate is set at £166.00 and is inclusive of all utilities (except TV Licence).
A £300 deposit is required, refundable following a successful inspection at the end of the contract period.
Residence is within walking distance of the local village, Brookmans Park and a couple of miles from the main town, Potters Bar with good access to shops, supermarkets, banks and public transport.
We hope to be able to offer a place in Odiham Hall to all students that apply.
However, if the number of students applying for Halls is greater than the number of places available, preference is given to overseas residents and applicants with home addresses some distance from the College.
This includes all utility bills i.e electricity and water but not the TV Licence.
A one week room holding deposit is required.
As there is a ‘no fixed term contract’ for Odiham Hall, short term lets are available, therefore, flexible around your EMS/placements.
If you would prefer to strike out on your own or share a place with friends, private accommodation is available through local letting agencies or private landlords in and around the Potters Bar area.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/about/our-people/development-and-training:
The RVC supports and actively promotes the professional development of all categories of staff.
This investment provides staff with a means to grow with the organisation whilst developing and improving personal and professional skills.
The aim of Staff Training and Development is to provide professional and administrative support to managers and staff on a wide range of training queries, including the provision of advice and guidance on:
The courses and workshops within our programme are designed to meet the needs of all groups of staff within the College and offer a wide variety of opportunities to improve knowledge and skills and engage in developmental activities increasing their effectiveness as a member of staff.
Note, the training programme is only available to RVC employees - please visit the intranet page: Staff Training Programnme .
The instructions for how to book onto a training course as an internal delegate is only available to RVC employees.
Please visit the intranet page: How to Book onto a RVC Course – Internal Delegates for more information.
Our priority at the RVC is to train our own staff and we tailor our Staff Training & Development Programme to suit their needs.
However, we also welcome applications from external institutions whose staff may attend courses not deemed ‘internal only’.
Whilst we will aim to provide places to external applicants on all relevant programmes, priority will be given to the needs of internal staff.
To make a booking you will need to complete a Training Application Form - External Delegates .
Submission of an application form does not guarantee a place on a course.
Your request will be held on the wait list as we allocate places to external applicants two weeks prior to the course date.
At this time you will receive a booking confirmation and Joining Instructions.
In the event that the course you have requested is fully subscribed or cancelled you will be notified in advance.
The RVC recognises that an annual appraisal system is an important mechanism for ensuring that RVC objectives are communicated to all staff and progress against them can be measured.
As a result, an annual appraisal will be required of all members of staff in the RVC.
The appraisal year runs from October to September with SMART objectives being set to cover this period.
Appraisals are completed online using the Appraisals at RVC system.
Access to the system is only available to RVC employees – for further information and details on how to login, please visit the intranet page: Staff Appraisals .
Mentoring is a development technique where a more experienced staff member provides the opportunity for reflection and discussion, advice and feedback to an individual with less experience - in a safe environment.
It has proved to have a beneficial impact on effectiveness, confidence and career advancement.
Through the mentoring relationship the mentee is supported in coping with the challenges and opportunities that he or she is experiencing in their work.
For more information, please visit the intranet page: Staff Mentoring .
The RVC has developed a unique MSc in Veterinary Education programme utilising the extensive expertise and experience of educators at the LIVE Centre.
The course consists of three levels – the Postgraduate Certificate, the Postgraduate Diploma and the MSc Research project.
New members of academic staff, with the recommendation of their Head of Department, should enroll on the PGCert as part of their probation.
The PGCert, which takes 10 months to complete, consists of two compulsory core modules of 30 credits each: Principles and Practice in Veterinary Education and Current Perspectives in Veterinary Education.
The course will develop individuals as professional veterinary and para-veterinary educators and reflective practitioners and will help them to offer an enhanced learning experience to anyone they teach or train.
Enrolment details and application forms will be sent to eligible staff members in the month of March.
For further details on the course see the Graduate School's MSc Veterinary Education page.
The aim of the HEA (Higher Education Academy) is to support the enhancement of learning and teaching in higher education, their mission is to help institutions, and staff to provide the best possible learning experience for their students.
On successful completion of the PG Cert in Veterinary Education members of staff are encouraged to apply for Professional Recognition from the Academy.
Note, successful completion of the PGCert is an important part of the Academic Probation.
For more information on how to apply for Professional Recognition from the Academy please visit the HEA website .
A Frequently Asked Questions document has also been created for information.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/alumni-news:
Published: 27 Nov 2024 | Last Updated: 27 Nov 2024 12:00:24

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/well-known-did-json:
{ "id": "did:web:www.rvc.ac.uk", "@context": [ "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", { "@base": "did:web:www.rvc.ac.uk" } ], "service": [ { "id": "#linkeddomains", "type": "LinkedDomains", "serviceEndpoint": { "origins": [ "https://www.rvc.ac.uk/" ] } }, { "id": "#hub", "type": "IdentityHub", "serviceEndpoint": { "instances": [ "https://hub.did.msidentity.com/v1.0/45a3be7c-9402-4fbe-ad43-8d1faebfb42d" ] } } ], "verificationMethod": [ { "id": "#f2cf8bff3e844290ac0c4611fdc01918vcSigningKey-41daa", "controller": "did:web:www.rvc.ac.uk", "type": "EcdsaSecp256k1VerificationKey2019", "publicKeyJwk": { "crv": "secp256k1", "kty": "EC", "x": "ucNZtedPp1cZdnAXmMdyzl-dxi7995XxtCX4E2quGzs", "y": "uY08yEPgGfzYMT1sBVXQuCaGk-k-6jkSxqXb8eMQTOg" } } ], "authentication": [ "#f2cf8bff3e844290ac0c4611fdc01918vcSigningKey-41daa" ], "assertionMethod": [ "#f2cf8bff3e844290ac0c4611fdc01918vcSigningKey-41daa" ] }

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/mitigatingcircumstances:
If you feel that you have mitigating circumstances which need to be taken into account during the assessment of your application to the RVC, you need to complete the Mitigating Circumstances form in the My Applications portal.
Please contact the Admissions Office on myapplication@rvc.ac.uk to obtain access to the form in the portal.
Mitigating circumstances are factors that are outside of an applicant’s control and therefore they should: ·
Whilst there is not a definitive list, examples of the types of mitigating circumstances we would encourage applicants to tell us about are:
We are not normally able to consider circumstances such as:
You should ensure that the relevant supporting information is also uploaded, for instance medical documentation and signed supporting letters from your school/college.
For more information on what supporting information is required, as well as further guidance on mitigating circumstances, please see the Admissions Policy .
If you have previously emailed the Admissions Office about your mitigating circumstances you will still need to complete the form and upload your supporting evidence.
The deadlines for submitting the form throughout the application process are as follows:
*Where mitigating/extenuating circumstances are in connection with a qualification or its results, the applicant should include a letter from their school or college in addition to any further supporting information.
Applicants should ensure that the relevant exam board is notified of any mitigating/extenuating circumstances, prior to the issue of results,  and that their relevant mitigating circumstance procedures have been followed.
The RVC expects that the relevant exam board has taken account of mitigating/extenuating circumstances and therefore that appropriate adjustments have been made and are reflected in the results.
We will therefore apply limited mitigation in these circumstances.
It will not be possible to give any consideration to mitigating/extenuating circumstances divulged after the issue of results.
Once your form has been received and considered we will notify you of the outcome via the application portal, please see the Admissions Policy for further details on this.
Where supporting documentation suggests that ongoing circumstances will affect both your studies, interview performance and/or exam results, these will be taken into account throughout your application journey and you will therefore not be required to re-submit the Mitigating Circumstances form after your initial submission.
Applicants who submit a Mitigating Circumstances form after an unsuccessful decision has already been made can only by reconsidered if the form was submitted within two weeks of the application deadline on UCAS/VMCAS.
Otherwise, we cannot reconsider an application.
We only look at the mitigating circumstances you send us during the year that you apply.
If you sent in mitigating circumstances for an application in a previous UCAS/VMCAS cycle, you will need to submit a new form for a new application.
We will tell you if you need to re-submit further evidence.
Applicants should note that applications are considered holistically against our published criteria and therefore the acceptance of mitigating circumstances does not guarantee that an application will progress to the next stage of the assessment process or that we will accept you if you do not meet the conditions of your offer.
You can submit information regarding mitigating circumstances as part of your reference on UCAS - please follow this guidance .
If we notice something detailed in the extenuating circumstances section of your reference we may contact you for further information and to advise that the student completes our mitigating circumstances process as detailed above.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/keepintouch:
We love speaking to you about your career and hearing your news and thoughts.
Over the years, speaking with alumni has allowed us to help many RVC students find work experience.
We also rely on the opportunity talk about the charitable efforts of the RVC and how you could be involved, without expectation or pressure.
If you would like us to keep in touch with you, please update your preferences with us.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/hc-befdedeaff488eeec3c078d16ccf3cc4:
Healthy

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/amr-at-rvc-researchers:
Researchers at the RVC tackle a wide range of aspects surrounding AMR
Queen Mother Hospital for Animals, Hawkshead
Ross has a particular interest in microbial infections of the skin, whether caused by bacteria or fungi, and their role in the exacerbation of pruritic and allergic skin diseases, and in otitis externa and media.
My research interests are in the area of the genetic basis of virulence and host preference in members of the MTBC.
I am particularly interested in the transcriptional regulation of virulence factors and antimicrobial resistance determinants in Mycobacterial species.
I have worked for over 20 years with pathogenic Mycobacteria and my current group are funded by the BBSRC, DEFRA and the International Veterinary Vaccinology Network.
Anette is particularly interested in staphylococcal skin infection, antibiotic resistance and food hypersensitivity.
Anette is also interested in the therapeutic options and management of MRSA and MRSP infections in companion animals and infection control in small animal practice.
As well as supervising small animal dermatology cases, Anette is involved with equine referral cases.
VEEPH Group, Hawkshead
Javier conducts applied research on a range of topics across the animal and human health spectrum, mostly focusing on zoonotic diseases and food safety.
His work combines epidemiological studies in livestock and human populations and analysis of animal and public health surveillance data.
Javier is involved in research in the UK, India, Rwanda, Jordan, Peru and Bolivia
His research focus is companion animal epidemiology and he co-leads the VetCompass Programme that collects de-identified clinical data from over 1500 veteinary practices across the UK.
Ludovic is interested in anaesthesia, pain management and clinical pharmacology.
His research focus is on pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modelling.
He is the co-funder of the APPRAISE research acceletator.
Veterinary Epidemiology, Economics and Public Health, Hawkshead

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/chemistry-champions:
Chemistry is in everything we see, feel, smell and taste!
Although this fascinating subject affects our senses on an hourly basis, Chemistry revision might not be top of your list if you are at college or secondary school.
FREE online live sessions consisting of five lessons with Dr Francis Lister, to excite and enthuse you about the chemical sciences!
These sessions are free for you to join, and are kindly funded by the Royal Society of Chemistry.
These sessions build on knowledge from last year, if you joined us back in 2021.
The first two sessions will be a recap, then Dr Francis Lister will be explaining new topics; Environmental Chemistry; the Chemistry of Food and Personalised Health.
So come along and meet us again!
Pupils in Years 10-13 (ages 14 to 18), or equivalent.
5.30-6.30pm on Microsoft Teams; Monday 10th January- Monday 7th Feb (five week course).
Not only will you find out more to help you pass your Chemistry exams, you will also find out more about how this fascinating subject is evolving in the world today, and where careers with chemistry might lie in future.
No matter which curriculum you are studying (such as GCSE, A Levels, IB, Level 3 Extended Diploma) this course will help motivate you to revise for Chemistry based assessments by demonstrating real life relevance.
Even if you are taking Chemistry with a view to a career in medical, veterinary or biosciences, you will leave with valuable insights about emerging trends in our understanding of chemistry and how it can be applied.
The more sessions you do, the more you will learn; but we will understand if you cannot attend them all.
Francis Lister, PhD M.R.S.C is a scientist who loves organic chemistry and has recently authored the University of London's new A-level equivalent for chemistry.
During his PhD, he created a cell membrane receptor from scratch using organic chemistry.
These shape-changing receptors are responsible for many functions in the human body, including, sight, taste, smell and immune response.
Like coding in a computer program, organic chemistry teaches you how to build and understand the molecules in the world around you.
Biology in particular uses these molecules to communicate and to control the function of life.
If you can build the right molecule you can change the function of living things, to understand how they work better or improve their function - for example, in the design of a new medicine.
Using a wealth of sector specific knowledge (food, start-up, deep/bio tech, cancer research) gained from a series of challenging roles he has undertaken since his PhD, Francis will share his enthusiasm for chemistry with you through real-world examples of jobs at the cutting edge of science.
This course aims to help you both understand the chemistry you are studying now and where it can get you in the world.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/chemistry-champions/lectures:
Thank you for participating in Chemistry Champions!
Here are the recordings.
Those of you who completed the evaluation will have received your certificate of participation.
You may wish to sign up for:
Hope to see you soon!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/pre-vet-summer-school/thank-you:
Application received!
Thank you for applying for our Online Pre-Vet Summer School (Monday 2nd - Friday 6th August 2021)
Please remember to email the following to schools@rvc.ac.uk :
Applications close on Friday 30th April at 5:00pm (BST) and we will be in touch by Thursday 3rd June at the latest
In the meantime if you have any questions about your application please email schools@rvc.ac.uk with OPVSS in the Subject of the message.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/pre-vet-summer-school/reserve-thank-you:
Thank you for applying to join the Reserve List for our Online Pre-Vet Summer School (Monday 2nd - Friday 6th August 2021).
Being on our Online Pre-Vet Summer School Reserve Lists means that we will consider your application if applicants who applied by the deadline decline our offer or are no longer able to attend.
W e will let you know whether we are able to consider your Reserve List application by Thursday 3rd June at the latest.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/newsletters/teachers-and-advisors:
The RVC Widening Participation and Outreach team deliver a huge range of activities, events and programmes to support underrepresented young people throughout the year.
If you would like to be the first to hear about opportunities for young people, events for teachers & advisors, and support for your students' applications, join our termly Teacher and Advisor Newsletter.
Sign up now →
Any questions?
Contact us on schools@rvc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/ucas-exhibitions:
UCAS Discovery Exhibitions brings together Higher Education experts to showcase information about their institution in order to help Year 12 students shortlist the universities that they want to apply to.
RVC staff and/or student(s) will be attending a selection of these nationwide events to engage in in-depth course-specific conversations and provide insight into the application process with students, parents/guardians and advisors.
Students have the option of bringing guests.
Typically, these events are accessible through schools, although students can also book directly with UCAS.
UK University Search Fairs are informative events which provide prospective students of any age with the opportunity to speak to a wide variety of universities, colleges and apprenticeship providers, to help them make informed choices about their educational future.
Typically, these events are accessible through schools, although students can also book directly with UK University Search.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/careers-fairs:
Date : Flexible Time : Flexible Location : Your school Age Group : All Years Capacity : Dependent on your institution Eligibility : All schools are eligible to apply, priority is given to secondary schools.
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) actively participates in a range of careers fairs throughout the year, offering invaluable advice and guidance to a diverse audience, including prospective students, their parents or guardians, and educational advisors.
At these events, RVC representatives engage passionately with attendees, providing tailored insights into the various pathways into higher education, particularly within the veterinary and biological sciences fields.
They are dedicated to answering questions, addressing concerns, and ensuring that each individual's journey towards higher education is as informed and supported as possible.
By attending these fairs, the RVC fosters connections and helps demystify the application process, encouraging attendees to explore the exciting opportunities available at the RVC.
We also participate in dedicated events for teachers, providing them with comprehensive support and training to better equip them in guiding their students through the university application process.
At these events, we address teachers' specific questions, offer expert advice, and share valuable resources on how they can best assist their students in preparing for higher education.
Our goal is to empower educators with the knowledge and tools they need to help students navigate the often complex journey to university, ensuring that both teachers and their students feel confident and well-supported throughout the process.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/animal-aspirations:
Date: Flexible Time: Flexible Location: Your School Age Group: Suitable for all ages Capacity: Flexible Eligibility: Your school must meet a certain number of Widening participation criteria such as having a high proportion of students on Free School Meals or from an ethnic minority background Cost: Free
Visit Animal Aspirations for more information →
‘Animal Aspirations’ began in January 2019 with the help of the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) Widening Participation team and is made up of a diverse group of vet students from various backgrounds.
The aim of the initiative is to engage students from diverse backgrounds through interactive animal and science-focused workshops.
We also aim to promote diverse role models and break the stereotypes of the veterinary and other animal-related professions by having a positive online and social media presence.
Our achievements have so far allowed us to reach out to children from various backgrounds, exposing them to the versatility, ingenuity and value of veterinary and animal-related professions.
If you are interested in Animal Aspirations and want to learn more about the opportunities and information we provide, visit our website at www.animalaspirations.com

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/get-your-grades-online-programme:
Date: Starting Dates for 2026 To Be Announced Time: TBC Location: Online via Microsoft Teams Webinars Age Group: Years 10 and 11 Capacity: Unlimited Eligibility: Anyone can attend Cost : Free
Register Your Interest Here Soon!
→
We are delighted to offer Get Your Grades for GCSE Science:
The aims of the programme are to help increase your Science GCSE grades, and will also be useful revision for A Level/BTEC  students.
Sessions will cover Biology, Chemistry and Physics revision, aimed at Combined Science grade 3 upwards.
Previous participants have said:
"It helped me boost my confidence so I felt more comfortable with the content in the exams"
"Useful tips you don't get told at school"
NB: This course is aimed at GCSE level, however pupils at earlier or later stages are welcome to join.
The software we will be using is MS Teams Webinars, which means that only the presenters are seen.
The sessions will be run as webinars, so you can type questions, however there is no option to turn your camera on.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/rvc-for-me-discovery-series:
Date: Sign up to RVC For Me to find out!
Time: Sign up to RVC For Me to find out!
Location: Online Age Group: Any prospective students can join Capacity: Unlimited Eligibility: Anyone can join Cost: Free
Register to RVC For Me to receive updates on our Discovery Series and access the exclusive Discovery Series portal with past instalments of the series →
The RVC For Me Discovery Series offers a digital opportunity to help support a prospective student's journey to Biological Sciences, Veterinary Medicine or Veterinary Nursing at the RVC; opening a direct line of communication with the Royal Veterinary College so that all your questions can be pro-actively answered by current students, academics, support staff and/or alumni.
This insightful LIVE webinar series will focus on a diverse range of university topics, encompassing all RVC pathways, student life and the all-important application process.
In addition, the recordings of these LIVE webinars, along with other digital media, will provide a bank of accessible resources and materials to help support your journey to the RVC.
Date: Wednesday 27th August 2025 Time: 20:00-21:00 BST Location: Online
Register to Attend our VMCAS Pre-Application Webinar Here →
Date: Wednesday 3rd September 2025 Time: 15:00-16:30 BST Location: Online
Register to Attend our UCAS Pre-Application Webinar Here →

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/free-school-meal-travel-bursary:
Events : Afternoon Anatomy , Farm Veterinary Summer School , Night at the Vet College , Open Day , Open House , Pre-Vet Summer School , Student Selection Interviews, Sutton Trust Summer School , Taster Courses , Work Experience Support Programme and Year 11 Vacation School .
School Year: Years 11-13 Eligibility: Attend a state-funded mainstream school, are currently in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) whilst attending secondary school OR who have been in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) during their secondary education AND who will be under 21 when one plans to join their first undergraduate degree.
NB: Free School Meal (FSM) documentation will be required to prove eligibility.
How to Apply: Please email: schools@rvc.ac.uk with the following:
Download Expense Form →
The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) is committed to supporting under-represented students into higher education and to make applications to our institution.
We believe in the importance of being able to access on campus events as they allow prospective students to explore study options available to them, as well as receive advice and guidance; all of which enables students to make informed choices about the educational future.
The RVC’s Free School Meals (FSM) Travel Bursary offers financial support for prospective students (in Years 11–13)[who meet stipulated eligibility criteria] and a supporter to claim up to £150 to reimburse travel costs incurred whilst travelling to on campus event(s), up to twice an academic year.
Eligibility for this bursary is targeted to support under-represented individuals, as we believe students from every background should be able to access advice, guidance and support in order to help them progress to and benefit from the transformative experience of higher education.
Claims can be submitted the day of the event and up until 30 days post event.
Claims require the completion of a form along with proof of travel expenses e.g.
providing receipts.
This initiative is generously supported by the Convocation Trust, University of London.
The bursary covers travel costs for you and one supporter, up to a maximum of £150 .
To be eligible, you must:
Food and accommodation costs are not covered under this bursary.
You must submit your expense claim within 30 days of attending the event .
To make a claim, please email schools@rvc.ac.uk with:
All travel for which reimbursement is sought must be undertaken by the most economical and reasonably practicable means.
Rail Travel
Rail travel will be reimbursed at the cost of standard class fares.
Oyster Travel
Please use your Oyster Card if you have one.
If claiming for Underground travel, a receipt and journey statement must be provided.
If you have an Oyster Card, ensure it is registered online to access your journey history.
You can do this at an Oyster-accepting train station or by calling the Oyster Helpline (+44 845 330 9876).
Private Motor Vehicle Travel
Reimbursement is based on mileage rates:
Claims must include:
The mileage rates given are calculated on the assumption that appropriate private motor insurance is in place.
The RVC will not reimburse any additional premium costs incurred and/or the RVC will not accept liability for any injury or damage arising from the use of private motor vehicles.
Car Parking
Reasonable parking charges can be claimed with a valid receipt.
Parking fines will not be reimbursed.
Taxis/Uber
We will not reimburse taxi/uber journeys – as public transport is readily available to our Camden Campus and we run a free Shuttle Bus between Potters Bar Station and our Hawkshead Campus.
Claims must be submitted within 30 days of the event.
Reimbursement typically takes around two weeks to appear in your account.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/meet-the-team:
We aim to inspire and support the next generation of RVC students (including those who are under-represented at the RVC) and their supporters (e.g.
parents/guardians, advisors, and teachers) through the design and delivery of a range of programmes/interventions that provide passionate, pro-active, professional and comprehensively tailored advice and guidance, as well as ensuring that our admissions processes are as transparent as possible.
All of which are designed to help empower students so that they can make an informed decision and fulfil their potential and join the RVC.
We also offer more targeted activities for local and under-represented individuals from initial engagement, followed by progression and attainment where appropriate for prospective students, we are meeting the aims of the Access and Participation Plan (APP).
To see the list of all the events we deliver please refer back to www.rvc.ac.uk/visitus
Chris has been a proud member of the RVC since the summer of 2008.
He is responsible for leading the development and implementation of the Royal Veterinary College’s (RVC) undergraduate and postgraduate recruitment strategies both within the UK and internationally.
Ensuring that all activities/interventions are accessible to all (no matter their background/location) and support the student journey from first point of contact through to application and admission.
The Student Recruitment Manager is primarily responsible for, but not limited to; Offer Holder Days, Open Days, Open Houses, RVC For Me Newsletter, RVC on Tour, RVC For Counsellors, International School Events and the Pre-Vet Summer School.
Since graduating from the RVC’s MSci Wild Animal Biology course in 2022, Hester has been an integral member of the Student Recruitment & Widening Participation team.
She is responsible for the planning, development, delivery and review of a range of inspiring events/interventions.
Hester is primarily responsible for; the RVC For Me Discovery Series, Pre-GCSE Attainment Project, RVC For Teachers, RVC Scholars Programme, Year 10 Easter School and Year 11 Summer School.
Jack joined the RVC in the winter of 2024.
Jack is responsible for leading the development and implementation of activities designed to attract and recruit a diverse student population to the RVC, as well as ensuring the integration and/or targeting of specific WP interventions alongside general student recruitment activities
Victoria re-joined the RVC in the spring of 2025 and is responsible for supporting the organisation, delivery, and development of a wide range of Student Recruitment and Widening Participation (WP) events/interventions.
Victoria is primarily responsible for International Campus Tours, Afternoon Anatomy, prospectus distribution, and collaboration between Student Recruitment and Widening Participation and Animal Aspirations; As well as supporting all REC/WP events.
The External Relations Student Ambassador Scheme is a trained collective of selected current students who are committed to sharing their insight and passion for the RVC at a wide range of events/interventions that provide advice, guidance and support the journey of prospective students and their supporters until enrolment at the RVC.
Student Ambassadors also have the opportunity to support a wide range of other events across the RVC e.g.
Public Engagement, Alumni events and Graduation etc.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/international-visits:
The RVC is aware of the multi-faceted considerations associated with studying overseas, so regularly attempts to bring the RVC experience to prospective international students, parents/guardians and advisors.
Typically, we visit North America and Asia throughout the year; attending careers fairs, guidance meetings, presentations, exhibitions, symposiums and conferences.
Please contact Schools@rvc.ac.uk to enquire about the RVC attending your school/event overseas or meeting in person to learn more about the RVC.
International Campus Tours are an opportunity for prospective overseas students, parents/guardians, and advisors to learn about the RVC through a private student-led tour of the RVC’s historic Camden Campus, London and/or rural Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire .
The tour of the Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire , which stretches over 575 acres, will explore the brand-new Student Learning Centre, hospital and clinical teaching facilities, laboratories, sports centre and student wellbeing spaces.
Please contact schools@rvc.ac.uk to enquire about International Campus Tours.
Please Note - We are unable to accommodate International Campus Tours over Weekends, Bank Holidays, or throughout the month of August.
Apologies for any inconvenience caused.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/meet-us/scholars-programme:
Date : 9 events in Year 1, 8 events in Year 2 (typically on a Saturday) Time : All day Location : Camden Campus, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU and Hawkshead Campus, Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA Age Group: Year 12 Capacity: 10 Eligibility: See below for full details Cost: Free
Application Deadline : 5pm on Friday 29th November 2024
Apply now →
Eligibility* - You must meet ALL the following criteria:
And be ONE of the following:
If the programme is oversubscribed, we will give priority to those who meet all or most of the following criteria:
The application form will require a reference to support your application, this should confirm your suitability for the programme both academically and professionally.
For more information on our commitment to improve equality of opportunity for under-represented groups please read our Access & Participation Plan (APP): www.rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/access-and-participation

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/vacation-schools/easter-school-year-10:
Date : TBC for 2026 Location : Camden Campus , London (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) Year Group : Year 10 Capacity : Up to 50 pupils
Register your interest for 2026 →
This 2-day introduction to higher education is a fantastic opportunity for students who are considering studying a Biological Sciences, Veterinary Medicine or Veterinary Nursing.
Students selected to join the Easter School will have the opportunity to experience university life and teaching; including animal handling and practical sessions, in world-class laboratories as well as investigating animal anatomy through specimens.
Throughout the event students will be supported by RVC Student Ambassadors, Staff and the opportunity to build a network with like-minded students who have a passion for improving animal health and welfare.
The Year 10 Easter School is free to attend.
The following expenses are covered: Food and drinks whilst on campus, transport to and from the campus, all equipment and activities.
Applications Open: 30th January 2025
Applications Close : 7 th March 2025 at 5pm GMT
The RVC is dedicated to being an organisation in which equity, diversity and inclusion underpin all that we do.
Eligibility for this opportunity is targeted to support under-represented individuals, as we believe students from every background should be able to access advice, guidance and support in order to help them progress to and benefit from the transformative experience of higher education.
“It has been great being able to explore my passion more.
I really hope I can join RVC in the coming years!”
“This has really helped me solidify my future plans to go into vet med at the RVC in the future and get myself ready to meet the requirements for a level I hope to see you again.”
“Getting to go there genuinely means so much to me and getting the chance to speak to actual students was so special.
RVC is such a warm and welcoming place and I think it’s great how inclusive it is for everyone regardless of circumstance”
“I just want to say how much I enjoyed this course, it was so much fun and I met so many inspiring people!"
If you are a teacher, adviser or learner who is interested in finding out more about the RVC Sutton Trust Summer School, please contact us at schools@rvc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/vacation-schools/summer-school-year-11:
Date : Wednesday 27th August - Friday 29th August 2025 Location : Camden Campus, London (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU United Kingdom) & Hawkshead Campus , Hertfordshire ( Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA, United Kingdom) Year Group : Year 11 Capacity : 50 pupils
This unique 3-day programme, for those students who are aspiring to study a degree in Biological Sciences, Veterinary Medicine or Veterinary Nursing, provides the opportunity to experience what studying at the RVC’s London and Hertfordshire campuses is like.
Comprehensive support and expert advice is delivered by RVC Student Ambassadors and staff throughout the Summer School to help build confidence and a sense of belonging.
During the programme, like-minded students will engage in practical activities and a range of animal handling work experience as well as develop skills and knowledge to help support university decision-making.
The RVC Year 11 Summer School is free to attend.
Applications Open : Monday 17th March 2025
Applications Close : Friday 13th June 2025 at 5pm BST

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/vacation-schools/sutton-trust-summer-school:
Date : 18th August - 22nd August 2025 Time : Week long residential programme Location : Camden Campus (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU United Kingdom) & Hawkshead Campus ( Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA, United Kingdom) Age Group : Year 12 Students Capacity : 50 pupils
The Sutton Trust Summer School is amongst the RVC’s most immersive residential programmes.
This free to attend Summer School sees students live on RVC’s Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire with all meals and equipment provided.
Students, no matter their previous contact with animals, will have the opportunity to complete a variety of animal handling placements across a number of the RVC’s facilities that can contribute towards work experience requirements.
This Summer School is designed to provide an authentic experience of what studying at the RVC is like with time spent at both campuses ( Camden Campus, London and Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire ).
The academic schedule will include lectures on a wide range of veterinary topics, conducting a research project, engaging in group-led teaching, learning practical clinical skills, and trying to solve a real-life veterinary case!
To complement the teaching, learning will take place within a welcoming and inclusive environment alongside peers from similar backgrounds, all with aspirations to study Veterinary Medicine .
Students will be allocated a Student Ambassador as a mentor to support and guide their academic and professional development during the Summer School.
Dedicated RVC professionals will provide comprehensive sessions around the application process with the aim of empowering students to fulfil their potential and join the RVC.
To support the comprehensive schedule there is a full social programme that facilitates the integration of Summer School students as well as providing an environment to develop skills, attributes and friendships.
In past years this has included: sporting events, cooking together as a house and a quiz night.
This Summer School, funded by the RVC and the Sutton Trust , is a free to attend, 5-day residential course for fifty current Year 12 (England and Wales), Year 13 (Northern Ireland) or S5 (Scotland) pupils from under-represented backgrounds.
All costs for the week, including the cost of travel, accommodation and food is covered by the Sutton Trust and the RVC.
We also offer scholarships for students from Widening Participation backgrounds in both our Farm Veterinary and Pre-Vet Summer Schools.
If you're interested in these programs, please visit their individual pages to learn more and apply!
Applications Open: Tuesday 14th January 2025
Applications Close: Thursday 6th March 2025
Applicants will be assessed in reference to your achieved/predicted grades, in accordance with the below.
Academic
" I really enjoyed the clinical skills sessions and the placement days as they were especially informative.
They were also enjoyable and very interactive"
"I particularly enjoyed the placement days as this was a really good introduction to animal handling which was great to learn about and gain some practical experience, it was also super interesting when the ambassadors spoke about animal health when teaching us how to do physical health checks.
I also to my surprise enjoyed all the group activities such as sports as everyone was really nice and got along really well.
Speaking to ambassadors on the veterinary medicine course was also good as this taught me a lot about the application process such as the importance of supplementary forms and what to expect in interviews."
"Thank you so much for this experience!
It was such an eye opening and inspiring experience to have and I am truly thankful for all that you have done to help this stage in my life.
I never thought this would be as amazing as it was, and I'm glad I have so much to take from the summer school"
"I thought the student ambassadors all were incredibly kind, welcoming and supportive and did an amazing job as well as being a bridge between a guide for the summer school and learning and also being a support system."

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/vacation-schools/pre-vet-summer-school:
Date(s): Sunday 3rd - Friday 15th August 2025 Location: Hawkshead Campus ( Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA, United Kingdom) & Camden Campus (Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street, London, NW1 0TU, United Kingdom) Age Group: 16+ years old Capacity: 50 Eligibility: See eligibility criteria in the dropdown below Programme Fee (2025): £3,365 (Scholarships are available, see below)
Pre-Vet Summer School Objective
To pro-actively facilitate an inclusive, supportive and exciting learning environment that helps to develop the next generation of RVC students by immersing them into all things RVC, including our Veterinary (BVetMed) Pathways, in order to provide participants with the opportunity to:
Pre-Vet Summer School Programme*
The Pre-Vet Summer School is one of the RVC’s most immersive, preparatory programme for students with an aspiration to study Veterinary Medicine.
This 13-day residential Summer School is based at RVC’s Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire and offers work experience in cutting-edge animal hospitals and animal handling environments with students gaining between 25 and 30 hours that can be used towards an application.
Students, no matter their previous experience, typically undertake placements in the RVC’s Queen Mother Hospital for Animals , Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital , Equine Referral Hospital as well as non-clinical environments such as Boltons Park Farm .
To complement placements, students will experience university-level lectures from RVC academics on a wide range of veterinary topics at both the Camden Campus, London and Hawkshead Campus, Hertfordshire .
They will also as conduct a research project, engage in group-led teaching, learn practical clinical skills, and try to solve a real-life veterinary case!
Throughout the academic and social programme there will be the opportunity for students to meet and learn from veterinary professionals in order to gain real-life insight into the veterinary profession/career.
To support the comprehensive academic/placement schedule there is also a curated social programme, to facilitate the integration of Summer School students and establish an environment in which to develop skills, attributes and friendships.
In past years this has included: exploring London’s famous landmarks, visiting ZSL London Zoo, attending a West End show, competing in an RVC Bake Off competition and experiencing animal handling opportunities.
*The RVC may (at its sole discretion) change the format of the event at any time, whether or not due to a Force Majeure Event, in each case without liability.
Programme Fee: £3,365 per place.
This is an all-inclusive residential experience; the programme fee includes accommodation, catering, appropriate equiment, Sunday collection from Heathrow Airport [if required] and Friday Drop Off at Heathrow Airport (2:00pm-3:00pm) [if required] e.g.
Personal protective equipment (PPE), for the duration of the programme.
It does NOT include travel to and from the Summer School.
Unforunately, we are unable to offer payment plans for the programme fee.
However, if you are in receipt of Free School Meals check out our FSM Bursary to expense your travel to us.
Scholarships: The RVC will award three individual scholarships covering the Tuition Fee Cost of the course
Applications Open: Thursday 30th January 2025
Applications Close: Tuesday 22nd April 2025 @ 17:00 BST
Please note, this is a competitive programme with around 50 places available to the strongest applicants.
As well as being assessed on your academic suitability, we will also use the personal statement part of the application to help us decide who to offer places to.
English Language
Other
"The Pre-Vet Summer School was an experience I will never forget.
I learnt so many new things from the amazing student ambassadors, staff, and vets on placement days.
It is great to be able to get a real feel for what the veterinary profession is like.
We also got a feel for what the veterinary medicine course is like, only making me more excited to apply here." - Pre-Vet Summer School attendee from 2024
" At first coming here was nerve racking, being my first time in the UK I wasn’t sure what to expect, however over the past two weeks I have met people that I never want to leave.
I now know how great this community is and would like to join it as a student." - Pre-Vet Summer School attendee from 2024
"This summer school has been an incredible experience.
It makes you feel like you're already a vet student and it gives you such a unique experience that gave me so much motivation to keep going.
It has not only given me a huge insight into the world of veterinary medicine but also into other careers and the diversity of pathways you can take after a degree in veterinary medicine.
You will learn so much and get to meet so many incredible people, students, staff and vets that are always there to answer any questions you can possibly think of." - Pre-Vet Summer School attendee from 2023
"The Pre-Vet Summer School was incredibly informative and inspirational.
The course has given me the ability to explore my passions in-depth and meet other students who are traveling the same path.
It has given me a view of the veterinary profession I could not get elsewhere." - Pre-Vet Summer School attendee from 2023
If you have any questions about our Pre-Vet Summer School, the application process and/or our academic courses please get in touch:
The Royal Veterinary College, Royal College Street London NW1 0TU, UK
Email: schools@rvc.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)7595411477

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/vacation-schools/farm-veterinary-summer-school:
Date: Sunday 17th - Friday 22nd August 2025 Location: Sparsholt College, Westley Lane, Sparsholt, Winchester, SO21 2NF, United Kingdom Age Group: 16+ years old Capacity: 20 Eligibility: UK Prospective Students Programme Fee (2025): £1,505 (scholarships are available, see below)
The course will be a combination of educational visits by coach to livestock enterprises (surrounding farms, a livestock market, potentially an abattoir), some hands on experience at Sparsholt College (milking cows at 4:30am one morning (!), animal handling, pig pregnancy scanning, parasite diagnostics and attending a post mortem) and seminars and group discussions on topical issues.
The maximum number of students is 20, so there is plenty of opportunity for discussion, interaction, exchanging ideas, making friends and questioning teaching staff and the host farmers.
The course is run by three farm vets from the Royal Veterinary College and supported by two student ambassadors who are currently studying to become vets.
We are planning sessions on the following topics, but this may be subject to change, and no guarantees can be given:
Visits (most by coach between 9:00am and 5:00pm, some at Sparsholt College) :
Accommodation
Is in single en-suite bedrooms and full board catering will be at Sparsholt College.
The Staff
Apart from the educational benefits and an in-depth knowledge of farming and farm veterinary issues the course
Students who complete the programme will be issued a certificate at the end of the course, and after the course we can provide a reference for any application(s).
Programme Fee (2025): £1,505 .
This is an all-inclusive residential experience; the programme fee includes accommodation and catering for the duration of the programme.
However, i f you are in receipt of Free School Meals check out our FSM Bursary to expense your travel to us
Scholarships: The RVC will award two individual scholarships covering the Programme Fee
Applications have now closed for 2025.
You will be assessed in reference to your achieved/predicted grades, in accordance with the below:
Please note, this is a competitive programme with around 25 places available to the strongest applicants.
" Peter, Theo and Ayesha and all the other staff who helped with the camp were amazing!"
"I especially enjoyed the beef suckler farm, as I found it very educational learning about the benefits of a grass fed herd and learning about biodiversity and welfare whilst walking around the farm.
I also enjoyed the morning milking as I found it to be one of the most hands on aspects of the week.
The staff and ambassadors were amazing at teaching us about being a farm vet and answering questions about farm animal conditions.
I also thought that the balance of visiting farms and talks in the evening was good."
"I enjoyed getting hands on with the milking and practicing practical skills like the suturing"
"I really enjoyed meeting new like minded people!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/visit-us/sex-in-3-cities:
Professor Joyce Harper is an author, academic, scientist and educator.
She is Professor of Reproductive Science at UCL, Head of the Reproductive Science and Society Group, and Director of the Embryology and PGD Academy.
She started her career as an embryologist, then moved into reproductive science and genetics.
Now she is researching into fertility education, FemTech, IVF add-ons, gamete donation and the menopause.
She is co-founder of the UK Fertility Education Initiative and founder of the International Fertility Education Initiative .
Bioscience at the RVC
If you are interested in studying Bioscience at the Royal Veterinary College, please have a look at our array of Bioscience undergraduate courses, which can be taken as a 3 year BSc, 4 year MSci, or 4 year Applied MSci, including;
As well as our postgraduate courses;
We also teach Veterinary Medicine and Veterinary Nurse, please check out Undergraduate Stud y page for more details.
If you would like to be updated with more information about events such as open days, please sign up to our RVCforMe newsletter, and if you would like more support and information about university applications, see if you are eligible for our Animal Academy online community.
The Bioscience stalls and reception will be a chance for you to talk to current RVC Bioscience students, if you have any questions about applications or student experience

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/anatomy-art-with-our-junior-and-teen-vet-clubs:
Published: 01 Jun 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:21:22
Do you want to work with animals when you grow up?
Then you’re a perfect fit for our Junior and Teen Vet Clubs!
On the 30th May the Widening Participation team held a day of fun activities for our members, who are all thinking about becoming vets, vet nurses or biologists in the future.
The day focused on the theme of ‘Anatomy Art’, which has been very important throughout the course of history as Dr Grace Mackintosh Sim explained in the big show.
Art is a wonderful tool to describe and record our natural world, and Dr Grace took the audience through how it has been used in the past, from ancient zodiac to Edward Wilson’s ground-breaking specimen paintings.
The first session of the day was just for junior vets (aged 7-12), and they got their artistic brains going with a spot of animal Pictionary, and volunteers helped up pin the anatomy on our horse painting.
Teen vets (ages 13 – 18) came later, and their show led them on a journey back in time, to when natural philosophers (scientists) would advertise for artists to join their yearlong voyages to ‘unknown lands’.
The teen vets were asked “would you take the job?”, and it looks like we’re going to have some adventurous scientists in the near future!
After the show, the young vets got stuck in doing some serious specimen drawing with our amazing array of animal skulls, from a ram to a broad snouted caiman!
They used pencils and chalks to create drawings similar to those voyaging artists from the time before Instagram.
They could then dress up in our real vet surgery gowns, learn to bandage our (toy) animals, and get some fantastic photos with their new piece of art.
Afterwards it was time to meet a scientist who uses patterns in their work.
Emily Madsen from UCL’s CBER research group talked about her amazing work in the Masaai Mara reserve in Kenya.
Emily is looking at the big cats in this area and so, needs to be able to tell the individuals apart.
The young vets were asked to ‘spot the difference’, and pair cheetah together based on pattern recognition from their back leg.
Before photography was available, people had to draw the animal’s specific patterns on paper, so our young vets got to draw their own cheetah ID sheet or simply make a multi-coloured, star spangled cheetah.
It was a fantastic day, and the chance for many of the young people to see inside a university and consider their future careers.
Anyone can join our Junior or Teen Vet clubs, simply follow these links Juniors (7-12) or Teens (13 - 18)
If you’re interested in anatomy art, the Royal Vet College and Royal Society of Biology run a joint competition called the Nancy Rothwell Award, specifically for specimen drawings.
https://www.rsb.org.uk/get-involved/rsb-awards/nancy-rothwell-award

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/cally-road-festival:
Published: 18 Jun 2018 | Last Updated: 25 Jul 2023 11:51:11
The Cally Festival On Sunday 17th June the Caledonian Road was transformed by its annual festival with parades, markets, music and a fantastic kids zone where our widening participation team will be showcasing some of the RVC's cutting edge animal tracking technology!
Our fantastic team of ambassadors talked to visitors about the Junior and Teen Vet Clubs, the Beaumont Sainsburys on site veterinary services, and our structure and motion labs work with wild animals.
Many members of the community got involved in the day i ncluding the Mayor of Islington, and they were very interested to find out more about our cheetah and lion collars,
If you want to find out more about the Structure and Motion Lab click here

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/brookmans-park-village-day:
Published: 20 Jun 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:19:42
On Saturday 16th June our ambassadors had a great time at the Brookmans Park Village Day, which takes place just 15 minutes from our Hawkshead campus in potters bar.
It was the 59th annual village day and this year, the theme was Movie Magic.
Armed with an array of exciting specimens; both bones and plastinated organs, our students discussed animal anatomy with the visitors, and the importance of vets and scientists understanding of what goes on inside an animal.
They also had the chance to dress up like a vet in our surgery gowns, and practice bandaging an 'animals' paw, tail, or sometimes whole body!
It was also an opportunity for budding vets to join our Junior and Teen vet clubs via our sign-up leaflets, as well as learn more about our clinical services such as the dog and cat blood transfusion clinic.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/big-bang-fair-south-east:
Published: 02 Jul 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:18:49
On the 27th and 28th June, a team of RVC Student Ambassadors hosted a stand at the Big Bang Fair South East 2018, on the site of the South of England Showground, Sussex.
The two-day event was attended by over 9000 primary and secondary school children with the aim of inspiring them to pursue a career in science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM).
The students got the chance to try out their bandaging skills using toy animals as well as quiz the Student Ambassadors on the bones, X-rays and plastinated specimens on display.
A keen talking point was the cow magnet .
Many were surprised to learn that the magnet can be inserted into a cows stomach to prevent accidentally-ingested metal debris from penetrating the stomach wall and causing inflammation and damage to the heart.
With many sign-ups to the RVC Junior ( here ) and Teen ( here ) Vet Clubs and teachers enquiring about school visits ( here ), it was a busy few days but well worth it to inspire the next generation of scientists, vet students and animal enthusiasts!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/rothamstead-festival-of-ideas:
Published: 09 Jul 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:17:56
The Widening Participation team had a fantastic weekend at the Rothamsted Festival of Ideas in Harpenden, North London on the 23rd and 24th June 2018.
The day started by getting all of our props (including a stuffed toy cow) to the edge of the sports field, a beautiful spot where visitors could walk around the stalls, get a photo sat on a tractor, have some lovely festival food, and meet the scientists of Rothamsted.
In total 8000 people turned up to take part in the festivities, so it was a very busy but extremely enjoyable weekend.
Our activity discussed our 'mystery specimens'; bone and organs of animals that the visitors has to ask questions to figure out what they were, xrays, dairy cow pedometers and of course bandaging our toy animals!
We had some fantastic visitors, the kids really enjoyed our stall and event the PCSO's got involved!
The theme of the event was agriculture, so stalls ranged from ' What is most important to you, when choosing your food?', so looking at insects under microscopes, and understanding the science behind cows burps.
We also met a very special dog, Archie, who had a life saving operation when he was a puppy to remove a blockage form his stomach.
His owner came over to thank us, and tell us Archie's story.
We are so happy to be able to meet people the RVC impacts in such a positive manner.
We were also very happy to supply fresh water to all the dogs in attendance over the weekend, which meant we got to give out plenty of pats!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/careers-with-animals-in-collaboration-with-baylab:
Published: 11 Jul 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:17:08
On the 3rd and 6th of July, the widening participation team had the amazing opportunity to deliver events in association with BAYER at their state of the art facility; Baylab in Reading.
The sessions were designed to spark an interest in veterinary or biology careers, or help those already determined to work with animals along the way.
First of all, the visitors came in and were given a special lanyard with their own Dr name on it, and a sticker to say if they were a 'Flea' or a 'Tick', to help split them into groups later on.
We gave a quick introduction to everyone, including our student ambassadors and the trained Vets and Vet nurses who work for Bayer, and then it was time to start the activities!
The RVC created a carousel of different aspects of animal related professions, such as animal bandaging, comparative anatomy; specifically looking at the hearts of different animals, learning how to check an animals pulse (and your own), and figuring out mystery specimens.
We were able to use our own collection of plastinated organs and prepared bones, as well as Bayers 'CPR dog', which allowed the students to check its 'femoral pulse' just like a vet.
Bayer also put on their own activites, one part included state of the art body scanners and virtual food, as well as testing the students jumping ability against a flea's.
They also had the opportunity to don lab coats and head into the laboratory to check out parasites that may effect animals under the microscope.
Check out the video BAYER have produced about the day (link at the bottom of this page).
We had a fantastic time and we hope the students did too!
Video Link

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/bwa-homework-club-end-of-year-session:
Published: 11 Jul 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:15:41
The Widening Participation team have been facilitating a homework club at the Bengali Workers Association in Camden, for students from both primary and secondary schools.
Each session we help out with homework that has been set form school, as well as providing our own activities on a theme.
We have covered literacy, maths and science in the past three terms, and on Tuesday 10th July we had our last science themed session.
The students were looking at comparative pathology, they were given the labelled diagrams of human skeletal and organ anatomy, and were asked to label the animals.
They would choose between lots of different animals but many picked the Dinosaur!
As they went through we asked them to point to the bone or organ on themselves, and we would discuss the scientific names for each.
After labelling they got to colour in their animal, and take it home.
Older students had the opportunity to go through GCSE past papers or discuss the anatomy in greater detail.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/latitude-festival-kids-area:
Published: 06 Aug 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 15:44:51
The Widening Participation team had the chance to go to Latitude festival in Suffolk this year, to meet hundreds and hundreds of young people interested in the world of Veterinary Science.
Latitude is no normal music festival.
The combination of workshops, live acts, beautiful forest art and wilderness activities make it a perfect place for families, and that's where we were situated: in the Kids Area.
We had an amazing circus tent all to ourselves throughout the day, and we had a host of interesting activities for people to get involved with.
There was 'A visit to the vet', where you could follow a pets journey through it initial health checks, taking their heart rate and blood pressure, right up to its x-ray (if you looked closely, you could see the pet in question had swallowed an action figure!).
Visitors had the chance to try out all our equipment and see for themselves how their heart rate changes once they do some running on the spot.
We also had mystery objects, where visitors could guess what our bones and plastinated organs might be, and we helped them along the way explaining where in the body it might be found, and what function it has.
Then we had Vet Tech, where we looked at the different ways technology can help both vets and biologists working with animals.
We had amazing cheetah collars which have been out on animals in Botswana with our researchers, a farm directory which helps farmers get the best genetic material for their animals, and even a cow pedometer!
We also had with us our trusty Labrador Otis.
Sadly Otis isn't a real Labrador, although many festival-goers thought he might be.
Otis still enjoyed coming round the arena with us and experiencing the fun festival atmosphere, Check out some of his adventure below
You've got to look cool at a festival!
Otis here modelling our RVC shades.
No Helter Skelter for Otis as the sign didn't specify the price per Labrador, however he did get to go on the merry go round, and see plenty of amazing live acts.
The Widening Participation team had an amazing time at Latitude, and we met some incredible people with fantastic knowledge about animals and anatomy.
We would like to thank the Kids Area organizers, and everyone who came to visit us over the three days.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/junior-teen-vet-club-adaptable-animals:
Published: 06 Aug 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:14:19
On Wednesday 1st of August the Widening Participation team held a day long series of events, starting with a fantastic visit from the University of Hertfordshire summer school pupils.
Their summer school was Harry Potter themed, so we discussed how anatomy and adaptations were important when creating the creatures for the various films, and gave them the change to create their own mythical creature drawing, using our specimens.
Then we welcomed our Junior and Teen Vets, part of our vet club program.
They settled down in the Alumni lecture theater for a talk about amazing animal adaptions.
We covered our own adaptations for running, as well as how animals jump and fly, as well as unusual adaptations like mimicry and weaponry.
Hands up!
Can we guess what our Outreach officer Lucy is miming at the front?
Next the junior vets were able to put their anatomy knowledge to the test, and recreate the internal anatomy of a horse onto their very own unicorn!
The teen vets were able to use our specimens to create a fantastic new creature, or simply draw a beautiful representation of what they saw in front of them.
These drawings could be the first step in submitting to the Nancy Rothwell Award, a art competition for young people run by the Royal Society of Biology in collaboration with the RVC.
If you are interested, information on submissions can be found here
Everyone also had the cahnce to visit our circus of activities, from gowning to listening to your own heartbeat, cheetah collars to mystery objects.
The visitors were really engaged and had some fantastic answers, as well as their own questions.
We really enjoyed welcoming so many new faces, particularly to our Hawkshead campus.
We hope to see you all again in the future.
Any future Vet Club events can be found here , and to sign up to be a club member, follow the links below Junior (7-12) Teen (13-18)

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/causeway-education-personal-statement-workshop:
Published: 06 Aug 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 15:54:55
On Monday 30th July the RVC's Widening Participation team facilitated a session run by Causeway education , who work to;
"Improve the life chances of children and young people by supporting them through key educational transitions" Causeway Education Mission
This session focused on a key aspect of the transition into higher education - writing a personal statement.
This can be a challenge step for many young people, who have likely never had to write about themselves in this manner before; showcasing yourself as being able to undertake further study in a specified field.
Causeway's team discussed the first question, who reads your personal statement?
Then they went on to how to structure the statement with the audience in mind; what should and shouldn't be included, what information is very important and which can be omitted?
Using examples the group created a template as what points they should try to cover, and what language is appropriate in a formal document such as a personal statement.
We hope that they left the session with a greater understanding of what a personal statement is, and more confidence in their own writing skills.
We also gave a short introduction to the RVC, both the veterinary course and the less well known biological sciences/ bio veterinary/ animal behaviour and welfare and postgraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/the-big-event-science-communication-conference:
Published: 06 Aug 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:11:09
Our Widening Participation team member Lucy Eckersley won a bursary to visit the BIG conference this year, after submitting an application detailing what our team would get out of the experience.
The BIG event is a three day conference covering aspects of science communication, a skill which is vital for public engagement.
This year the event was held in Winchester planetarium, and so Lucy arrived to take part in activities.
The Winchester science centre and planetarium itself offer a huge range of exciting ways to learn about science, from space suits, to star arrays, optical illusion rooms, and even a fully interactive anatomy model touchscreen
The sessions were varied and the schedule was packed so sadly some had to be missed, but some of the most interesting an exciting ideas came out of the session 'Craft in STEM', where we created badges, hama bead pieces, origami and even soft electronics, all with a Science Technology Engineering and Maths (STEM) theme.
Lucy made an anatomically correct feline skull badge out of shrink plastic for a badge.
Another fascinating session was called 'Building a diversity toolkit', and comprised of groups of discussions all focused around the issue of diversity.
They included 'Having difficult conversations' and 'LGBT+ community in STEM'.
There was also the demo competition, where science presenters tried to get across a concept in a fun and engaging way in under three minutes.
The winner created a loop of flame circling a track of referee foam, which was pretty exciting to watch.
The winner of the demo competition was announced at the BIG barbecue, next to Winchester cathedral it was a fantastic opportunity to network and meet new collaborators.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/the-sutton-trust-summer-school:
Published: 06 Aug 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:06:56
We had an absolutely incredible time with our Sutton Trust Summer School students this year.
They manged to do so much over the five days that it will be difficult to summarise, but here are some of the highlights!
The RVC Sutton Trust summer school is a 5 day residential school at our Potters Bar Campus.
The students arrived into central London and stopped off at our Camden Campus to meet each other and their RVC student ambassadors.
After a session about Pet First Aid, it was time to head off to the Hawkshead Campus and dive straight into activities.
The students had the opportunity to meet lots of animals, particularly those at our on site farm.
They learnt about the life cycle of the farm animals, as well as how to handle a sheep like a vet!
At an average of around 70kg each the sheep proved difficult patients, but its a very useful skill if the students decide to progress on to veterinary science.
Back at the campus, they visited our clinical skills centre where they learnt how to do suturing (using silicone mats just like our vet students), as well as bandaging and sterile gloving and gowning.
Suturing was very popular, as it is something students are often apprehensive about trying and have had little experience of.
Our student ambassadors gave them the time to learn and make mistakes in a friendly atmosphere which helped to build their confidence.
The students were taught by experts in their field, across a wide range of disciplines from Dinosaur bio-mechanics (the Dawn Dinos team), to how to take care of a 7ft long boa constrictor (with the amazing Wild Fangs ), and understanding horse anatomy with the RVC's equine diagnostics team.
Alongside their activities, the students were given the task of creating a presentation AND poster, in time for a conference on the Thursday afternoon.
With the topic of zoonotic diseases, presentations ranged from Lymes disease, to Toxoplasmosis, preventing mad cow disease, and even to the historical importance of the Bubonic plague.
Every team did fantastically, showcasing brilliant presenting skills and confidence.
They even included complex things like audience interaction and narrating videos.
A massive well done to all!
In their free time the students had the opportunity to take part in sports activities, or settle down to create their own art pieces.
On the finial day the Student ambassadors teamed up to create the brilliant Animal Olympics, where students competed throughout a series of grueling 'veterinary themed' obstacles.
These included horsey hurdles and match the wellies.
The students were living in houses throughout their time at the campus, and each house got together to compete in the Bake Off night.
Everyone had the same ingredients but the dishes created were totally different, with a lot of thought gone into each one.
We had the pleasure of sharing one students birthday morning on the finial day, complete with a card signed by all the students and ambassadors (and cake!)
Then all too soon it wad time to go.
We hope everyone had a brilliant time, we enjoyed meeting each and everyone one of you, and we wish you luck for the future.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/babble-talks:
Published: 15 Aug 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 16:01:39
On 8th August, Widening Participation Outreach Officer, Lucy Eckersley, met with the creators of Babble Talks to take part in a talk/interactive session.
Babble Talks are a young company, with a particularly young member- their 10 month old Julian.
After Julian arrived, parents Ruth and Ian wanted to create an event where parents could meet up, where babies were welcome, but where the topic of conversations wasn't totally baby related.
Previous talks have covered gut microbes, Jurassic Park and climate change, but this time Lucy focused on the world of macro-biology, specifically Scottish Wildcats.
These felines, once abundant across the UK are not critically endangered and Lucy discussed the reasons why, what conservationists are doing about it, and how the next generation could help.
After the talk, the audience got involved with some 'babble scrabble', to un-jumble the scientific words, a Q&A, and playing true or false with some wildcat facts.
The event was genuinely brilliant to be part of, and the RVC welcomes mature students who may have taken a break from academia, or realised their passion for animals after, say, having a baby.
Initiatives like this allow parents a bit of 'mental time-off', as well as a chance to meet new people in similar situations, it's great to see community-driven informal talks happening across our busy capital.
Babble talks have events twice a month, one at their Tooting location, and one in East Dulwich.
Parents are welcome to come along and bring their children to a number of our events, have a look at our eventbrite page for upcoming events

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/year-11-summer-school-2018:
Published: 03 Sep 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 15:53:40
For three days at the end of August, 30 year 11 students had the chance to visit the Royal Veterinary College.
They were there to learn more about careers with animals and get some excellent experience including clinical skills, animal handling, and lectures from experts in their field.
After meeting all of our new visitors, and introducing the student ambassadors (who all explained their journeys to study at the RVC), the students were taken to the lab with Dr Laureen Peters, a lecturer in clinical pathology.
They used their new knowledge to figure out where some mystery specimens came from, and even figuring out what might be wrong with some patients.
It was a busy first day for the students, as after a short break they also got to hear about PhD student Winnie Ntao-Boahene's journey into working with antifungals.
In the morning of the second day, the students met the Dawn Dinos team, starting with a short lecture about paleobiology; when did dinosaurs roam the earth, and how did they become successful?
The team believes the answer may lie in the 'Locomotor superiority hypothesis', basically they moved better than their competitors.
It was then off to the lab to test out this theory, complete with 3D printed bone specimens, and some funny walks.
Again we packed in plenty of experience for them, with PhD student Kate Mellor telling us all about antibiotic resistance, Dr Nicola Blackie explaining farming practices with 'unusual' animals such as alpaca, deer and ostrich.
We finished the day with Dr Madeleine Campbell discussing the importance of ethics when working with animals, and our students had the chance to debate on the topic of cloning animals.
On the finial day we took the students to our on site farm; Boltons Park, where they learnt about farm practices, what their future work experience might entail, and who lives at the farm.
They also looked at husbandry of animals like goats, pigs and alpaca, and had the chance to learn how to properly handle a chicken.
Our chickens are egg layers, and the student ambassadors demonstrated the correct way to hold them and check their health.
Thankfully it was a lovely sunny day, so we walked back to the RVC Hawkshead campus for lunch, getting ready to get stuck in at our clinical skills centre.
Dr Nikki Coombes, head of the  centre, allowed us to showcase the facility which is open to students 24/7.
There RVC students can practice any of their clinical skills, and our student ambassadors demonstrated how to properly glove and gown in a sterile manner, and how to bandage an animal.
Throughout the three days we were extremely pleased by how engaged the students were, and we hope we have given them the information they need to make informed decisions about their future paths as they start their A level years.
A special thanks to all staff and student ambassadors involved!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/news/kentish-town-young-farmers-visit:
Published: 03 Sep 2018 | Last Updated: 28 Sep 2022 15:50:11
On 22nd August, the widening participation team had the pleasure of welcoming 26 young people (aged 7 - 15) who currently volunteer at the Kentish Town City Farm.
They help out by cleaning out animals, taking them for walks, feeding them and generally ensuring they are happy, they are taking time out of their weekends and holidays to look after these animals.
Therefore, it is clear they all have a genuine love for animals, which may progress into a career working with them, possibly as a vet, vet nurse, or bio scientist.
We hosted a day of fun activities for them to experience what its like to be studying for an animal related career, starting with a look at what each of the positions do.
Then we headed to the lab to hear from Dr Charlotte Lawson and Elaine Shervill, where the volunteers had the opportunity to stain a set of real tissue samples, then look at them under the microscope and figure out which organs they came from.
This was a pretty hard task but they managed to get them all correct!
Afterwards they split up into two groups (goats and lambs, as named by the farm), and half headed down to our  museum to do an anatomy quiz with Andrew Crook, our head of anatomy.
Here they were asked to pick up the (real) bone specimens, and walk around the museum to try and find similar structures to find out what bone, and hopefully what animal it is.
The other half looked at clinical skills such as gowning, animal bandaging (using our very reliable toy animals), as well as learning to use our stethoscopes and blood pressure monitors.
Then of course the groups swapped round so that everyone had the chance to try out all of the activities.
The volunteers were very positive about their visit, which for many was their first trip to a university.
We hope they learnt new skills which will help develop their love for animals into a career.
Kentish town city farm is a free entry local community charity, check out their website here

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/widening-participation/opportunities:
Learn about animal careers and study, gain new skills, talk to current students at the RVC, and meet other people passionate about animals!
Eligibility for these events are targeted to support under-represented individuals, as we believe students from every background should be able to access advice, guidance and support in order to help them progress to and benefit from the transformative experience of higher education.
Go to our Visit Us page to see even more events available to you!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/widening-participation/opportunities/gdpr-statement:
This notice tells you about the ways we the Royal Veterinary College collect and use your personal data.
Before you sign up you should read it through with your parents or carers and make sure you understand what information about you that you are sharing with us and what we will do with it.
Your “Personal data” means any information that we or others can use to identify you.
It may include your name, address, birthday, and other information about your life.
If we collect information about your race or your religion or about your health this is called ‘special category data’ and we have to make sure that we have a good reason for collecting it and that we treat it with extra care.
Because we collect your personal data and decide how we will use it we are also called a Data Controller.
That means we are responsible for how we use your personal data, for treating it with care and for letting you know what we will do with it.
When you sign up we collect:
Why do we collect it?
We collect your information to do two main things.
If you have signed up for Animal Academy, we will keep your personal data until you tell us you no longer want to be a member.
We will then stop sending you information, and anonymise any data we hold about you (take your name and personal details off it).
The law says that you can ask us:
If you have any questions or concerns about how your personal data is used, or please contact the College’s Data Protection Officer: data@rvc.ac.uk
Further information, for you and your parents or carers, including our Data Protection Policy, can be found under Policy and Legal (Information Compliance) .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/widening-participation/schools-outreach:
Schools outreach at the RVC aims to provide opportunities and support for under-represented young people to: experience higher education, develop their interests and learn skills for their future.
Check if your school or college meets our Widening Participation eligibility criteria , then view the programmes we have available below.
Be the first to hear about opportunities and support from RVC: join our Teacher and Advisor Newsletter for termly updates and reminders tailored to you.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/widening-participation/eligibility:
All of our Widening Participation programmes are funded by the RVC’s Widening Participation funds, to support learners who are under-represented at RVC.
In order to be eligible for our Widening Participation activities, you must meet the essential criteria.
You will be more likely to be selected if you meet a number of additional criteria.
In order to be eligible for a Widening Participation programme you must meet both of the following criteria:
Priority will be given to students who meet any of the following under-represented criteria:
If you have any questions around eligibilty please email schools@rvc.ac.uk .
Eligibility for these activities are targeted to support under-represented individuals, as we believe students from every background should be able to access advice, guidance and support in order to help them progress to and benefit from the transformative experience of higher education.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/supporting-all-students/support-at-the-rvc:
Our Finance team have information on all the funding options to support you, including scholarships and bursaries.
Once you’re here at RVC, they give one-on-one advice and guidance on Money Matters , such as:
There are job opportunities on campus so you can earn money around your studies: from working in the bar, hospital or sports centre, to being a Student Ambassador at RVC events.
The Student Union also runs a shop to get the equipment you need at low cost.
My scholarship has allowed me to dedicate all my time to my studies.
In first year of university, I was working 20 hours a week while studying, but now my scholarship allows me to dedicate all my time to the university, for work and social events.
I now feel very prepared for my future career, as I have been able to dedicate that time.
If you’re thinking of applying for a scholarship, go for it!
I faced some financial hardship and the university was able to support me through a bursary during this difficult time, there are so many bursaries out there .
Our Learning and Wellbeing team are here to help all students make the most of their time here, offering:
It's nice to know that the Advice Centre are there if things do go wrong in any circumstance, academic or personal, but also that they can be a point of contact for even minor issues before they have escalated.
My advice to a first year student would be not to see the Advice Centre as a place you only go if you have a problem – talking through things can be the best way to tackle a situation, and you'll feel much better for getting extra help sooner rather than later!
Our Chaplaincy runs regular events, from interfaith trips to Pride marches and iftar meals.
They can also advise on religious and cultural accommodations, e.g.
working with certain animals.
There’s a society or event for everyone in our active Students’ Union – meet people like you or try something new!
Join the LGBT+ Society, South Asian Society, Mature Students’ Society, clubs for sports, music, art and more.
Many events are alcohol-free and/or cost-free, and they can help you get discounts to make the most of London’s cultural highlights!
Our two campuses at Camden and Hawkshead are designed to meet the needs of our diverse students, with unisex toilets (single gender toilets and accommodation also available), prayer rooms, parking spaces for carers, and 24-hour security support.
Our Digital Learning platforms are suitable for screen readers, and the campuses are made physically accessible with automatic doors and wheelchair accessible accommodation options.
We welcome prospective students to Visit Us , and work with diverse audiences through our Widening Participation programmes .
We also run engaging events for our local communities.
From outside the UK?
International students can find more help and advice here .
In our Access and Participation Plans for 2020-21 onwards , the RVC sets out its commitment to diversifying our student body, and the specific targets we’re reaching to ensure the very best students study and succeed here.
Got more questions?
Contact us on outreach@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/animal-academy/life-at-the-rvc:
Studying at the RVC is a fantastic opportunity to learn about animals and develop your career.
But what's it really like?
Find out here...
Students at the RVC study their subjects through a mix of lectures, practical lessons, group projects and even experiencing clinical work (e.g.
in our animal hospitals).
Around study times they enjoy social events, sports clubs and more.
There are lots of different kinds of people to meet, ways to learn, and social activities to take part in, so everyone can find the right opportunities for them!
We're even part of the University of London, so as well as the RVC clubs and events, you could take part in bigger ones with students all across London.
See the RVC Students' Union website for what our students are up to right now.
Listen to current students tell their stories about starting at RVC, and what made them feel welcome and at home.
There is also lots of information about what we do to support students , from money advice to access needs, inclusive events, and being there to listen!
A group of RVC students run Animal Aspirations , to promote diverse role models and encourage people from all backgrounds to study veterinary and animal science.
Their website has lots of tips, resources and experiences all from the students themselves - check it out or see what they're up to on Instagram .
The RVC is made up of two campuses; the Camden Campus, which houses the first two years of the BVetMed course, the Gateway year, and the majority of the Biological Sciences students.
Next door is the Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital .
The Hawkshead campus has a more ‘countryside’ setting, near Potters Bar, north of London.
Here the final three years of the vet degrees are carried out, as well as the full vet nursing degrees, and some Biological Sciences.
Here we have the Queen Mother Hospital (the largest small-animal referral hospital in Europe), and Boltons Park Farm , where we teach all about livestock animals.
Getting between the two campuses is a simple 15-minute direct train from Kings Cross to Potters Bar, where a free shuttle bus collects students on a regular schedule: dropping off at the campus, the farm, a big Tesco and even a local gym.
The RVC is known around the world as a centre of excellence in teaching animal science.
You can learn more about the different options below, and download our undergraduate prospectus here .
Then look at Applying to the RVC after you have selected your course.
To be able to practice as a Vet, you would need to take either this course, or the Veterinary Gateway course below.
For detailed information about the course and entry requirements click here .
This course recognises that some students with the capacity to be fantastic vets, may not be able to achieve the entry requirements for BVetMed, due to their personal circumstances.
Gateway is an additional year before the BVetMed course designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills you need to study veterinary medicine: from communication and problem solving skills, to handling and care of farm animals.
To find out more about the course and the Entry Requirements, click here .
These courses qualify you to work as a Veterinary Nurse, covering clinical skills, diagnostic techniques and applied science.
You can study either the Foundation (FdSc) 3 year degree , or add on an additional year carrying out research in an area of clinical interest in the 4 year BSc .
These degrees train you as a scientist, and lead to a wide variety of careers.
They all follow the same modules for the first two years, to learn the core of animal science, then each one specialises - see below for examples:
Hear from a student on the Bioveterinary Science course:
Hear from a student on the ABBWE course:
Test your new knowledge about the RVC's courses, careers and student living with our online quiz - you can sign in with a google account if you have one, or any email address.
Our Reflection sheet will help you to take notes of what you have learnt, and reflect on the new skills and knowledge you're gaining: Download our reflection sheet and start recording your growing experience!
Use these notes to help you think about what you need to do next to achieve your goals, and prepare for interviews and personal statements: look how much you've learnt.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/animal-academy/working-with-animals:
You may have only heard of a few career options for people who want to work with animals, but there are actually lots of jobs that involve animals in some way, for example;
You can find out more about each job, including the qualifications required here .
At the RVC, we have staff working in all kinds of roles to improve the health, welfare or conservation of animals.
Learn more about what their jobs are really like through the links and videos below.
A Veterinary Surgeon (Vet) works to diagnose sick or injured animals, and treat them alongside a veterinary team.
They diagnose illnesses, prescribe medication and conduct surgery, and they work with animals every day in a variety of situations.
Salaries for vets can range from £30-50,000 per year.
Hear from three working vets about their daily work and why they enjoy being in the veterinary profession.
You can see more of Theeb, Fabian & Issa's work on the BVEDS youtube channel .
Natalie is a graduate of the RVC's Gateway course, here she talks about her work and her career path.
Learn more about becoming a Vet , Hear what current Vets enjoy about their job , and read the UCAS page on Veterinary surgeons.
Vets can specialise to work with different types of animals, or in different environments: for example you could become a farm Vet , zoo Vet or specialist in zoological medicine , work in equine (horse) internal medicine or equine reproduction , pathology , emergency care , or even working with dogs in the army !
Some Vets do research to increase our understanding of treating animals, like the RVC’s Jonathan Elliot .
There are so many possibilities of veterinary careers to explore - which one are you interested in?
Hear from Kelly what it's really like to be a Veterinary Nurse:
A veterinary nurse cares for unwell or injured animals.
Working closely with other members of a veterinary team, they assist in surgical procedures, take samples from the animals, and give medications.
Vet nurses have the opportunity to be hands-on with animals every day and can work in a variety of environments, from charities to private practices.
They can also specialise in a number of areas, such as exotic animals, surgery and anaesthesia, nutrition , and even dentistry.
Salaries are usually £18-26,000 per year.
You can learn more about starting a career in veterinary nursing , and the different roles of vet nurses , as well as the difference between a Vet and Vet nurse , and read the useful UCAS page on vet nursing.
Download This awesome book made by Veterinary Nursing Graduate Remi Onabolu, all about what she wish she knew about being a Vet Nurse!
Biological scientists conduct scientific research about living things.
Our "bioscientists" at the RVC focus on improving our understanding of animals, their health and welfare by conducting field and lab studies, interpreting data from veterinary practices, and analysing case studies.
Biologists can work in a variety of environments, for example, Winnie, a PhD student at the RVC works mostly in the lab and with computers, analysing data.
Emily Madsen who graduated from an RVC masters programme, works out of a tent in the middle of the Masai Mara in Kenya for six months of the year, returning to the UK to analyse her data on computers.
Biologists, even those working in the field with wild animals, have less contact with animals than Vets as they try to not disturb wildlife and don’t work to care for injuries or illnesses.
Some biologists however can work closely with animals during observational studies.
Salaries depend on the job and can range from £14-70,000 per year.
Biological studies open up a variety of careers .
Read about how biologists make a difference and learn more about Biologists and Zoologists on the UCAS website.
Check out this video all about Dr Lucie Bourne's journey to becoming an RVC bioscience researcher - after studying at the RVC!
Animal Care Workers maintain the health and welfare of animals, and are skilled in husbandry, animal nutrition and enrichment.
They ensure the enclosures/kennels/stables are clean and safe for the animals, provide a healthy diet and enough exercise, and interesting objects to keep the animals happy using their natural behaviours.
They also keep track of animal health through weight check-ups, and administer medication prescribed by Vets.
Animal Care Workers may work in organisations like zoos with many types of animal, in specialist places such as bird of prey sanctuaries, aquariums or dog shelters, or large open spaces such as safari parks, riding schools and farms.
They may have some hands on time with animals, particularly when providing food and enrichment, training or exercise, but follow strict rules to keep themselves and the animals safe.
Salaries depend on the job but often start from £12-25,000 per year.
Learn more about the route to becoming a Zookeeper , and the career on the UCAS website , or check out Chester Zoo’s " So you want to work in a zoo ?"
Got some ideas of careers you might like to work towards?
Use our reflection document to take notes about what you've learned, and work out the next steps you need to take to reach your goal.
Download our reflection document

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/animal-academy/work-experience:
To apply for some of the courses at the RVC, you need to have completed a certain amount of work experience: find out more about the requirements on the course pages .
For example, for the Veterinary Medicine course you will need to complete 70 hours of clinical, and 70 hours of non-clinical experience.
You do not need to do more hours than the required amount, or work in lots of different places - though it's a great idea to experience a variety of jobs if you can.
C heck your course's page for the full details ( e.g.
BVetMed here ).
If you are unsure whether a certain placement would count, or be clinical or not, feel free to contact admissions@rvc.ac.uk
Reflect on what you have learnt: After each placement, think about what you learnt and enjoyed, what was hard, what was different to what you expected, and which environment you liked the most.
R eflect on what you have learnt about the profession, how does this reinforce your decision to be a vet, what skills and characteristics did you realise a vet needs, and how can you demonstrate you have them?
Make notes of this as you might forget!
You need to take responsibility of finding your work experience placements, and they can be competitive so it's best to book in advance!
The below are suggestions of how you can go about finding work experience, not endorsements by the RVC, or a guarantee that we will accept them as clinical or non clinical work experience hours.
Finding a vet: U se these tools to find vets in your area, and look up their contact details
RCVS find a vet Medivet find a vet Vet for Pets find a vet CVS find a vet Vet Partners find a vet IVC Evidensia find a vet Independent Practice's find a vet
Finding a farm / stables
NSA Lambing placements - Sign up to this service to find lambing placements British Horse Society find a stables The Livery List find a stables ABRS find a riding school or yard Social Farms & Gardens - check out local city farms to see if they house animals Find a Farm Shop - look for local farm shops, then see which farm supplies them Farm Sunday find a farm
Other places to look : Use these tools to find zoo's, aquariums, wildlife parks and rehab centres, and animal charities.
BIAZA find a Zoo RSPCA rescue centres Cats Protection find a local branch WWT wetland wildlife centres Donkey Sanctuaries Dogs Trust centres British Wildlife Rehabilitation Centres Help Wildlife Rescue Centres Pets at home find a store Pets Corner find a store
Work experience gives you an idea of what a job really looks like, what people in that career do on a daily basis ( find out about jobs working with animals here), and the skills they use .
While you may not be able to go to a work experience placement, check out these videos and activities to learn some of the skills you'll need as an animal professional:
Go on a virtual tour of our Clinical Skills Centre.
This is where many of our students practice skills such as bandaging, suturing and gloving.
It is open 24/7 so you can practice whenever suits you!
Why not try out some of our clinical skills yourself?
You can practice these at home with household objects
Toby a past Student Ambassador demonstrates how to approach and examine a dog
Alana and Steph, two past Student Ambassadors demonstrates how to safely approach and examine a horse.
Tegan, a current Student Ambassador demonstrates how to handle her pet rats.
Viewing specimens down a microscope is one of the first things you will learn in an animal-related degree- you can work on your skills with these demos.
Learn all about what blood looks like down the microscope - this video demonstration looks at mammal blood cells under a microscope.
Here you can see a thin section of a rat heart on a slide that has been digitised.
You can zoom in to see the different types of cells.
Try to find cardiac muscle cells and red blood cells.
Vets who work with companion animals (pets) do these common procedures regularly - some may happen every day!
Watch these videos to learn about the skills they use:
Giving vaccinations
Brushing a dog's teeth
Trimming nails
Restraining an aggressive cat
Drawing blood from a dog
Surgery on a cat's stomach
Test your new knowledge with our online quiz - you can sign in with a google account if you have one, or any email address.
Our Reflection sheet will help you to take notes of what you have learnt, and reflect on the new skills and knowledge you're gaining: Download it here and start recording your growing experience!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/animal-academy/learn-about-animals:
Learning how to study independently is an important part of university life.
You can give yourself a head start, and enjoy learning more about the animals you love, by trying out some of the activities here: these are ways that students at the RVC study, from watching lectures, to discussing case studies.
They will help you develop your knowledge of animals, and also prepare you for things like coursework, projects, and eventually, university!
Hear from Dr Beth Preston during our live event - Animal Academy: Mini Lecture
University style teaching and learning may be a little different from what you have experienced at school or college.
Lecturers are experts in their field, carrying out research as well as teaching and the lessons are often faster paced.
Watching our taster lecture video will help you prepare for university, and you'll learn some exciting new animal facts from an RVC expert.
Although this is a taste of University level learning, the below lectures may not be reflective of any RVC course in the future Ethics in Animal Science - Professor Madeleine Campbell
Listening to a lecturer and taking notes to revise from later might be a little new to you, so we have made a PDF of all of our Top Tips for Note Taking at university.
Case studies are examples of real-life scenarios you might encounter working with animals: below are some great ones to get started.
For each, think about your first assumptions as to what is wrong with the animal, and consider what you might do.
As you learn new words and discover new techniques used by animal professionals, keep a note of them in your Reflection notes (download: reflection sheet ).
Pete the Vet Hear the stories of animals with different personalities, temperaments, histories and treatments.
Think about how an animal behaves might change how a vet or nurse works with them, and all the different ways you can help an animal have a happier life.
Davies Veterinary Surgery T he cases of Alice the Cocker spaniel and Holly the Labrador are common cases in the veterinary world.
Animal Welfare Foundation - Forgotten Flopsy This case looks at the welfare needs of an animal, and how they can be harmed if these needs aren't met.
It also gets you to think about the people involved and how they might feel, which is a great thing to practice for you work experience and interview.
It also goes into law and policy, but don't worry, you don't need to know about that just yet!
At university, it is often up to you to decide what and when to revise, and you may even be asked to do research on an entirely new topic.
It is a great idea to spend some time revising the subjects that are important for your future career goals - like Biology!
Our Sutton Trust Summer School students this year completed group projects on 10 different animal health issues, which you can download below; Diabetes in Pets: Download Hip Dysplasia: Download Metabolic Bone Disease: Download
The interactive presentations below will test your learning about dog and cat behaviour, click on each one to go through them.
Animals can’t tell you what they are feeling, so understanding their behaviour is key to working safely with them:
Here are some useful activities and links that focus on biology and animals:
Download this PDF for instructions on how to develop your own mini-research project about an endangered animal!
Developing your knowledge of species will help you understand conservation principles and help you learn more about careers with animals.
You can choose the format of your project, it could be a poster, a mind map, a presentation, or an essay.
Send us your completed projects and we can feature them on our social media, and send them on to our Junior Vet Club, who are 7-12 year olds interested in working with animals.
They will love to learn from you about new species!

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/animal-academy/applying-to-the-rvc:
Applying to university can seem daunting, especially if you're the first in your family to go into Higher Education.
The Royal Veterinary College is the perfect place for any student interested in working in animal science.
As an undergraduate you can choose to study Veterinary Medicine, Biological Sciences or Veterinary Nursing , and there are postgraduate degrees too .
Our Veterinary Gateway course is for students who meet Widening Participation criteria (like this Animal Academy website) - click here to find out if you might be eligible.
For short videos about the courses see Life at the RVC , and for more detailed info read through our online prospectus .
Year 9
Check what qualifications (e.g.
A Levels) and subjects (e.g.
Biology) you need.* Check how many hours of work experience you need (e.g.
for BVetMed ) – And check when you can start counting your hours from!
Apply!
Check your course's page for the full details ( e.g.
*An important point : If you are taking A Levels and working towards Veterinary Medicine / Gateway, your third A Level subject choice can be anything (except general studies).
That means it can be Art, Maths, English Literature, Media Studies, anything (except general studies or a course that overlaps with Biology and Chemistry, like Biochemistry.
Just choose a subject you will do well in.
If you are unsure, get in contact with us and we can check!
Students apply to study at the RVC through UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
Depending on the course you would like to study, the dates and process vary (e.g.
for some courses there are additional "supplementary forms" to submit - don't forget!).
Here is the basic timeline to plan for:
You can find out about RVC Fee's and Funding on our webpage here
You can find out lots of useful information about how and when to apply to university as well as tips on writing your personal statement on the UCAS website .
There are loads of other useful websites with advice and insights from students:
Interviews can be intimidating but they needn’t be!
At the RVC we do Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) for our Veterinary Medicine, Gateway and Veterinary Nursing courses.
MMIs are a series of short interviews that explore different skills that we think are important for our students to have.
What they're like At the RVC interviews, there are usually six “stations”, each assessing a range of different skills and attributes, from communication to critical thinking.
Each takes five minutes to complete and you are scored independently by a different assessor each time, which means you get a fresh start at each station.
You will also take part in a short teamwork task with some of the other applicants.
Our interview days also include presentations to give you more information about the course and the College, as well as a tour of our campus.
Dress code You are not required buy a new suit to wear to the interview but you wouldn’t want to come dressed in your Christmas jumper and running trainers!
Something smart-casual, like a shirt or blouse and plain dark trousers or a skirt would be appropriate.
Try to choose something you feel comfortable in and remember your campus tour will include some walking!
Thinking about your outfit beforehand will stop any last-minute panics the night before the interview.
Preparing for questions It’s important to prepare before any interview to help you to do your best on the day.
There are a lot of great resources online to help you practice and prepare for MMIs - while lots are focused on medical interviews, it is quite easy to apply the questions to a veterinary setting.
When you receive your invitation to interview, we will give you some information about the skills and qualities we are looking to test.
Think about the sorts of questions you might be asked to explore these skills, and practice answering them with your friends and family, or record yourself speaking out loud.
If you can, get people to ask you different questions so that you can practice coming up with answers on the spot.
If you are the sort of person who talks a lot, practice being brief and getting your point across quickly!
Around 55% of communication is delivered through body language, so be mindful of how you come across.
It’s completely normal to feel nervous during an interview, particularly at the beginning, but try to relax, sit up straight, smile and make eye contact with the assessors - showing them you are taking the opportunity seriously.
Hear from one of our Ambassadors, Sioned, about her interview experience at the RVC
Here is some more specific information of what you need to do and focus on in each year if you want to apply to the Gateway Veterinary Medicine course
Use this flowchart to calculate your Gateway Eligibility Criteria points You need 15 points to be eligible, but check how many points you would meet in total.
There are links below to check Contextual schools and IMD
Low household income could be shown by: Child Tax Credits, free school meal eligibility, 16-19 bursary, or a government assessed income award that demonstrates low household income Level 2 contextual schools can be checked here Level 3 contextual schools can be checked here Polar 4 postcode checker IMD postcode checkers - England / Scotland / Wales / Northern Ireland - Please ensure you include the space before the last 3 characters, for example NT1 0TU, rather than NW10TU

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/animal-academy/chat-to-us:
If you have any questions for our team, or would like to speak to a Student Ambassador, get in touch:
Send us a live chat message by clicking on Chat to us in the bottom corner of this page - if we're online (usually 9-5 Mon-Fri) we'll help you straight away!
If we're not around type in your email address and we'll be sure to get back to you within 48 hours.
Email us anytime at Outreach@rvc.ac.uk
Have a chat with us or RVC students and get to know other people like you on The Student Room Forum - the UK's biggest student community.
You can ask for advice on courses from current uni students, or ask questions about finance, accommodation or part-time jobs.
You can also read student reviews about their university experiences and connect with other young people interested in studying at the RVC.
See you there...
We are a small and friendly team, our job is to support you on your journey to becoming a student at the RVC!
Lucy Eckersley is the Outreach Development Manager at the RVC, and works on developing and delivering sessions for people interested in working with animals.
Lucy completed a Biology degree at the University of Sheffield, then studied a Wild Animal Biology Masters at the RVC and ZSL London Zoo, working on captive and wild animal welfare, disease and conservation, and specialising in Scottish Wildcats.
Lucy loves bird watching, animal photography and travel (which often revolves around birds and photos!)
We also work with almost 200 Ambassadors who are current students at the RVC, coming from a huge range of different backgrounds and studying many different degrees!
Student Ambassadors are role models for future students: they raise awareness of what life and studying at the RVC is like, and help you to make informed decisions about your future.
You might meet them at our events we run, or if they visit your school.
They are also available online to answer your questions about what it’s like to be a student here at the RVC.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/animal-academy/get-to-know-each-other:
Lead paragraph
Second paragraph
Notes
From the outline:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/teacher-pack:
The Royal Veterinary College is the perfect place for any student interested in working in the realm of animal science.
There are multiple pathways for students to choose from, see below an overview, then check more information on the following pages.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/committee:
The College’s Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Committee (EDIC) was established over eight years ago and oversees all aspects of equality, diversity & inclusion.
The committee provides annual reports for the College Executive Committee and College Council.
The Committee is made up of representatives from each department, who are named Equality & Diversity Champions with the remit to drive forward the equality, diversity & inclusion agenda at the College.
Each Champion is working with their department to produce a departmental Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan based on the requirements set out in the Athena SWAN Action Plan and the College Equality Objectives and Action Plan.
For further information please contact the EDI office on EDIUnit@rvc.ac.uk .
Below is a list of the Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC) members, whose remit is to promote equity, diversity and inclusion across the College.
The role of the EDIC member is to support their department to develop and promote an environment in which principles of equity, diversity and inclusion are embedded as part of the departmental working culture.
AS: Athena SWAN TU: Trade Union SU: Student Union
The College has developed the following Equality Policies:
It is the intention of The Royal Veterinary College to provide a working and learning environment which promotes equality and diversity in all aspects of College life and activity, and to be a community which is safe, supportive and free of intimidation, bullying or harassment.
The Dignity at Work and Study policy applies to all employees and students of the College and they are expected to comply with it.
Its purpose is to:
Employees, students, visitors, consultants, clients and contractors to the College should be treated with courtesy, fairness and respect and are expected to treat others in the same way.
This policy applies to all College premises, and all College Employees and Students working at other premises.
Click this link to read the full Dignity at Work and Study policy.
Dignity at Work Ambassadors are members of staff from different parts of RVC.
They have been trained to offer informal support and information to anyone at work who feels they have been inappropriately treated, bullied, or harassed, whether this is by a peer, someone junior to them, or someone senior to them.
Refer to the Dignity at Work Policy for further information which is available on the RVC intranet.
Alternatively, you can contact the EDI department on EDIUnit@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/athena-swan:
We’re delighted to announce that we’ve been successful in renewing our Athena Swan Bronze award!
The award is a framework used across the globe to support and transform gender equality within higher education (HE) and research and is given by Advance HE.
The renewal award is the culmination of months of work by our Self-Assessment Team (SAT), led by co-chairs Professor Nicola Menzies-Gow and Dr.
Sharon Kendall.
Our thanks and congratulations to Sharon and Nicola for their leadership, and to the whole team for their hard work on our submission.
Here’s a link to the full news story .
A Self-Assessment Team (SAT) was established to support the preparation for the Athena SWAN renewal award in 2022.
Athena SWAN Revised Final Action Plan
Athena Swan Renewal 2022
Annual Updates and Progress Reports
Athena SWAN Progress Update December 2020
Athena SWAN Progress Update December 2019
Athena SWAN Progress and Updates 2018
Athena SWAN Progress and Updates 2017

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/family-friendly:
The College actively promotes equality and diversity for all of our staff and recognises that this includes developing practices to assist those with caring responsibilities outside of work.
Elderly Relatives
If you are responsible for the care or wellbeing of an elderly relative and would like information regarding options available for accommodation, finances or care.
Emergency Family Leave
Employees with dependants have a statutory right to reasonable unpaid leave to deal with family emergencies.
Employee Assistance Programme
Care First offers a counselling and advisory service to all RVC employees as an additional source of workplace support.
This is free, impartial and confidential.
Click here for further details.
Flexible Working
Flexible working is a provision that can enable you to adjust, by agreement with your manager, the balance between your home and work responsibilities, subject to operational and business needs.
Please see Flexible Working Guide for further details.
The college offers a number of practical and financial provisions to support parents and those soon to become parents in addition to the statutory requirements inferred on the college by government.
Childcare vouchers (ChildcarePlus)
The RVC Childcare Voucher Scheme, administered by Edenred, has now closed and we are unable to accept any new entrants to the scheme.
You may still be entitled to tax free childcare which is now administered directly through the Government website .
On this website, you will be able to check your eligibility, make an application and find out more information on help available to pay for childcare.
If you are currently in the Edenred scheme, you can stay in it so long as you remain employed by the RVC and do not take an unpaid career break of longer than a year.
Feeding rooms
The College has provided a room on each campus for those wishing to breast feed or express milk.
These rooms can be found;
New Parents
Preparing for a new child, although exciting, can be a very hectic time.
There are a series of guides to provide detailed information regarding your entitlements and giving clarity on the process you will need to follow.
Parental Leave
Parental Leave is a provision which allows employees to take unpaid leave for the purpose of caring for a child and is available to all parents of an eligible child.
Please see Parental Leave Guide for details.
Pregnancy Parking
Pregnancy car parking is a provision in place where women in their third trimester can be given access rights to park in disabled parking spaces on campus.
Please contact Hawkshead Security for more information.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/disability:
Studying with a disability or a specific learning difference can require planning.
At the RVC we offer specialist advice and support to help you succeed on your course.
If you have a disability, learning difference or long term physical or mental health condition you should register with the Advice Centre in order to access support to assist you with your studies.
The Advice Centre has a dedicated Disability Adviser who can provide advice and guidance on the support available including special exam arrangements and other reasonable adjustments as well as applying for specialist funding support.
Accessing Support
Declaring that you have a disability or learning difference on entry does not mean support will automatically be in place for you.
Students still need to register with the Advice Centre by booking an appointment with the Disability Adviser and providing appropriate medical or diagnostic evidence.
Dyslexia screening service
If you have ever wondered whether you have Dyslexia, the RVC offers a screening service to help students decide if they wish to pursue a full diagnosis.
The screening involves an online test and a questionnaire and will indicate whether you might be dyslexic.
Once completed the Disability Adviser can provide further guidance in terms of onward referral and funding assistance for a full assessment if appropriate.
To have a confirmed diagnosis of Dyslexia students have to be seen by an Educational Psychologist or appropriately qualified Assessor.
We are unable to provide a screening service for ADHD or Autism.
These conditions require a medical diagnosis and you should talk to your doctor in the first instance.
You are welcome to discuss referral mechanisms for this and the potential support available after a confirmed diagnosis with the Disability Adviser.
For more detailed information please visit the Advice Centre web pages or contact us at disability@rvc.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/our-commitment:
Mindful of recent events, we are developing an online resource for staff and students to use to report (anonymously or otherwise) racist incidents.Meanwhile, I wanted to remind you of the current reporting processes that are available to you.
Students who wish to report a racist incident involving themselves, another student(s) and/or staff should report to the Advice Centre .
The Advice Centre can advise on available support and options and will liaise with the senior tutor team who will investigate the issue further using the existing RVC Misconduct procedure if that is what you wish to happen,
Any serious incident that indicates a student may have broken the RVC charter may be dealt with under our fitness to study/fitness to practice procedure which can be found here .
Any member of staff wishing to report an incident that has impacted on students should report to the Advice Centre as above.
Staff wishing to report an incident that has impacted them or another member of staff should follow the procedures outlined in the Dignity at Work Policy .
This Policy includes a range of options including reporting an incident anonymously, through to submitting a formal complaint leading to an investigation and potentially, disciplinary action against the accused.
Any individual who wishes to informally report an incident is directed to one of our trained Dignity at Work Ambassadors in the first instance.
The College also in partnership with ‘Care-First’ offers a counselling and advisory service to staff.
Counsellors are experienced in providing support to individuals who have been subject to racism.
Further information can be found on our intranet .
Alternatively, you can report a racist incident to our Diversity and Inclusion Manager: Ferhat Nazir-Bhatti .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/retg:
At the direction of the Principal, the RETG has been established by the RVC Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC) to consider and address issues (both actual and perceived) undermining race equality at the RVC.
The group will work with staff and student representation to engage the RVC community in identifying issues of mutual concern, agree measures to address them and actively promote diversity and inclusion at the College.
The RETG will prepare a Report and supporting Action Plan for consideration by the EDC during the spring term of the 2020/21 academic year.
The Report will be shared with be shared with the College Executive Committee (CEC) and the RVC Students’ Union in due course.
The RETG will:
If anyone has any questions or comments, we would love to hear from you so please get in contact any of the RETG members.
Chair of the RETG - Professor Daniel Chan - dchan@rvc.ac.uk
Three staff representatives:
Dr Donald Palmer – dpalmer@rvc.ac.uk
Dr Mehroosh Tak – mtak@rvc.ac.uk
Revd Andy Marshall – Chaplain - Asmarshall@rvc.ac.uk
Three student representatives:
Students' Union President – Quentin Wedmore - supresident@rvc.ac.uk
Students' Union Equality Officer - Olivia Craddock - suequality@rvc.ac.uk
Animal Aspirations President - Lavinia Economu - leconomu5@rvc.ac.uk
The RETG is further supported by an Internal Advisor (Rebecca Costello - rcostello@rvc.ac.uk ) and an External Advisor (Dr.
Avtar Matharu - University of York - avtar.matharu@york.ac.uk )
Since our inception in July 2020, the RETG has met 18 times as we explored issues relating to race, diversity and inclusion faced by students and staff at the RVC.
We have listened and learned a great deal and we have begun drafting our report of recommendations to the Equality and Diversity Committee and College Executive Committee.
Although the RETG will soon complete its yearlong task, the journey to ensure the RVC continues on a path to become a thriving diverse and inclusive community has just begun.
We are currently planning a series of Listening and Learning Exercises so that the RVC can learn from our community and become better for it and we hope you will join us.
In the meantime, please take a few moment to watch the following video – its truly worth a view
John Lewis: It’s not OK
It has been a year since the world witnessed the murder of George Floyd; an African American man killed by a white police officer.
The global protest following this most horrifying event has been sustained, and the sense that all of society needed to take urgent action against racial discrimination, palpable and irrefutable.
In our own community, as a result of the significant stimulus from a group of our students reminding us that actions speak louder than words, under the auspices of the Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC), a Race Equality Task Group was established.
Comprised by equal numbers of staff and students and chaired by Professor Dan Chan, the group was asked to provide prioritised actions for the EDC to take forward.
The group will present its report and recommendations in June 2021, to the EDC.
Importantly, and in the immediate aftermath of George Floyd’s death, testimony of staff and students led to immediate changes to some of our processes.
For example, our reporting protocols were neither clear nor had facility for anonymity; we addressed this by adopting the Report and Support system for students and staff, following the lead of others in the sector.
We also recognised the importance of the student voice – and in particular our own Students’ Union and especially Animal Aspirations , a group of BAME students promoting HE and the professions locally, nationally and, most recently, internationally.
We also committed as an organisation to the Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter .
In order to address the critical issue of safeguarding our students during work-based placements, we have instituted changes to improve the support students receive during, and following placements, should they experience any type of discrimination.
As part of our widening participation initiative, we are committed to increasing the diversity of our community with the ‘RVC for All strategy’ and have set ambitious goals for increasing access for BAME students.
Beyond increased access, this work also includes initiatives to engender a sense of belonging and support for the success of BAME students.
We are currently evaluating our Equality and Diversity training with a view to providing a programme that is more interactive and that directly addresses issues of race.
We are also embarking on work to consider the actions we can take towards decolonising our curriculum, making it more inclusive and culturally competent.
Given our close involvement with the veterinary profession and recognising the issues we face are intersectional and extend well beyond the campuses we occupy, we are also engaged with a number of  wider initiatives: For example, the For The Record Podcast featuring four veterinary students’ stories about their experiences relating to their race in their journey to become vets, the RACE Together Veterinary Survey , and initiatives led by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, the professions national regulator .
We are in the early days of our endeavours, but we remain firmly committed to addressing racial discrimination of any form and we invite you all to help achieve the change we want to see.
It may take time before we see the full impact of some of the initiatives but above all, we want ours to be a welcoming place where BAME students and staff, alongside everyone else, feel that they are valued, that they can be who they are, and thrive.
We hope our efforts will make positive and sustainable changes that go some way towards honouring the memory of George Floyd.
Professor Stuart Reid – Principal Dr Christine Thuranira-McKeever - Chair of the Equality and Diversity Committee Professor Dan Chan – Chair of the Race Equality Task Group
We like to take for granted that in today’s society, members of a community can feel safe and protected.
But sadly, the wave of anti-Asian hate that followed the COVID-19 pandemic has members of the Asian community, even in our own community, feeling fearful, ostracized and alone.
Events in the past week, where 6 of 8 victims in a shooting spree near Atlanta, Georgia were Asian women were not just tragic, but deeply hurtful as the world struggled to take notice.
Campaigns to raise awareness of the rise in anti-Asian violence and abuse go seemingly unnoticed despite unprecedented rise of this form of hate crime.
Members of the Asian community ask “Where’s the outrage?
Where’s the rejection of cowardly acts that target the elderly and women?
Where is the allyship?” Instead of ‘raised fists in defiance’ and ‘battle cries of solidarity,’ people are more preoccupied with ‘when will they get their vaccine’ or ‘when they can go on holiday.’
It was heart breaking to read a message circulating in Asian social media networks that read “Don’t talk back, its not the time to be strong… its more important to stay alive, than be strong.” Its not just the palpable fear in the message that is upsetting, it’s the acceptance that no one else is going to look after them.
For years, Asians have been called the “silent or model minority” – they don’t complain and just get on with life despite widespread prejudice and abuse.
The failure to notice the current plight of Asians in our society make them feel like the “unheard” and the “unseen” minorities.
Is it ironic that the Japanese proverb “See no evil, hear no evil and speak no evil” aptly describes the ignorance and seemingly acceptance of despicable acts against Asians?
At the beginning of the pandemic, there were reports of acts of violence against Asians for simply wearing masks in London – until mask-wearing became “normalised” – but the question is will acts of violence and abuse against Asian become normalised?
Throughout human history, the worse of humanity manifest itself in scapegoating.
And the best of humanity is when they stand together as one, where all can live free of fear, prejudice and persecution.
At the RVC and in our community at large we must do more than make overtures of being anti-racist, we must stand with our Asian colleagues and speak out against aggressors.
We must not look down and walk away – we must provide safe-harbour.
Many people ask, ‘What can I do?’ – One important step is to hear their stories and learn what they are going through.
Below I have listed a number of stories from news sites that share their accounts.
But we, as the RVC community, must also listen to the struggles of those affected by these acts of aggression so that we can better support members of our community.
Please look out for an upcoming invitation to an open forum that will serve as a safe space to allow members of our community to share their stories and ideas about making the RVC more inclusive.
I also want to again put a spotlight on the RVC’s and SU’s Report and Support services for anyone in our community that have been affected by anti-Asian sentiment and aggressions.
The RVC’s Race Equality TaskGroup and our team of Mental Health First Aiders also stand ready to lend support to all in our community.
Firstly, I would be remiss not to wish everyone Happy Chinese New Year!
– The Year of the Ox (Or the Spring Festival or Lunar New Year to be more inclusive as its celebrated by more than the Chinese – about 20% of the world’s population).
( To learn more about it click here ).
At our most recent RETG meeting we had a very frank and insightful discussion with the Directors of Animal Handing EMS and Clinical EMS to discuss the process when veterinary students report any form of discrimination during placements.
We also discussed what measures have been implemented to improve the system but more importantly, we discussed what further work can be done to improve the reporting and support of students in these situations.
We felt there are opportunities to enhance clarity of our expectations to placement providers, collection of student feedback but also how students can be encouraged to discuss and report issues encountered and how the RVC can better support both students and staff in these situations.
With the recent launch of the RVC and RVCSU Report and Support system we discussed how we can have better integration of efforts which can ultimately improve the student experience and safeguard their wellbeing.
A set actions and recommendations were discussed and we look forward to further improvements to the system.
Whilst there are still many improvements to be made, there is a well-known Chinese proverb that comes to mind:
Each 10,000 mile journey begins with just one step.
千里之行，始於足下
qiānlǐ zhī xíng, shǐyú zú xià
Laozi
This week, between the 1st and 7th of February marks the first ever, Race Equality Week, a UK-wide initiative launched by a not-for-profit community interest company, Race Equality Matters.
This initiative aimed to unite hundreds of organisations in addressing barriers facing race equality in the workplace.
Each day this week, the RVC has been posting messages on our social media platforms in support of the movement and prompts for open conversations relating to race issues within our community.
One of the key activities outlined by the campaign was the creation of “Safe Spaces” whereby brave and often uncomfortable discussions need to take place.
Underpinning the concept of Safe Spaces is the creation of an environment where people affected by race issues can have their voices heard , where people will listen, and where actions will follow.
In support of Race Equality Week, I would ask that you click on at least one of the links below, which very much align with these principles, so that you can learn more about the issues at hand and what actions have taken place in the RVC to support our quest to have a more inclusive and diverse community.
Finally, I leave you with the following quote:
"If you can’t fly then run, If you can’t run then walk, If you can’t walk then crawl, But whatever you do you have to keep moving forward”
- Dr Martin Luther King, Jr.
In the last RETG meeting held on the 20th November, we explored some of the issues relating to recruitment, retainment and promotion of staff from ethnic and minority groups.
We discussed that there are many challenges in obtaining the appropriate data we need in order to better understand possible reasons for the disparity we have.
Our upcoming meetings we will:
As mentioned in my previous update, we are excited to announce that the College have signed up to the Advance HE Race Equality Charter (REC) membership and have fully endorsed the REC principles highlighted below.
The REC aims to improve the representation, progression and success of minority ethnic staff and students within higher education sector.
In doing so, the College is committed to the promotion and advancement of Race Equality.
For more information and updates please see the section within the Equality and Diversity website under REC .
REC members are committed to following these guiding principles :
If anyone has any questions or comments, we would love to hear from you so please get in contact any of the RETG members.
Members of Staff:
Members of Student Body:
Advisors:
Dear all,
The Race Equality Task Group (RETG) convened our fifth meeting in October and we would like to provide the following updates:
October marked Black History Month in the UK and a number of activities were organised by the Students’ Union and the RVC and we hope everyone was able to take part in these activities and help celebrate Black History Month.
If you would like to see some of the highlights please check the Equality and Diversity Pages
One highlight worth a watch can be found here: https://rvc.uk.com/BHM-in-conversation
To close out the month, perhaps very fittingly, the Principal signed the commitment of engagement with, and subscription to, the Equality Challenge Unit’s Race Equality Charter.
Finally, today, 3rd November, many around the world will be looking at Election Day in the US with great interest.
As with all elections, there are implications for many issues, and a key impact may be on race relations not only in the US but further ashore.
At a time where there is a great need for strong leadership, I leave you this non-political video clip shared with me by a colleague.
It is only 5 minutes long – and trust me, its worth a viewing.
To me, this is what true leadership looks like: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hkUrnHT1VvI
The Race Equality Task Group (RETG) convened our fourth meeting this week since the inception of the task group and would like to provide the following updates:
Best wishes,
Dan
The Race Equality Task Group (RETG) is fully committed in providing our community with regular updates on our activities.
We have met for a second time on the 26th August and began exploring findings of a survey conducted by the Student Union on race-related issues encountered by students.
As there were many areas highlighted by the survey, careful exploration of issues identified is the current focus on the RETG agenda.
We also discussed the urgent need to gauge RVC staff views on the issues of race equality and how we could progress this next step.
We are currently exploring options to undertake this important work within the working timeframe of the RETG.
Recognising that we have much work to do, we have agreed to meet more frequently than monthly to allow greater discussions of the issues identified.
We are meeting this week and again in the next two weeks.
We will also be seeking to form subgroups from the wider RVC community (staff and students) to help us better understand the issues staff and students consider crucial in our quest to make the RVC more diverse and inclusive.
For those wondering the difference in these goals, I offer you this quote:
“ Diversity is being asked to the party; Inclusion is being asked to dance.” — Verna Myers
I hope all are well.
I wanted to update everyone on the activities of the newly formed Race Equality Task Group (RETG).
We held our inaugural meeting on the 22nd July and are meeting again on the 26th August.
Our plan is to meet monthly as we work through our ambitious but important agenda.
As a group, we feel transparency is crucial to our goals and so we would like to share with you the subject of our first meeting which was to discuss our objectives, structure and membership.
Below is a summary of our discussions.
Purpose of the Task Group:
At the direction of the Principal, the Race Equality Task Group (RETG) has been established by the Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC) to consider and address issues (both actual and perceived) undermining race equality at the RVC.
The group will work with staff and student representation to engage the College community in identifying issues of mutual concern, agree measures to address them and actively promote diversity and inclusion in the College.
The Task Group will prepare a report and supporting Action Plan for consideration by the EDC during the spring term of the 2020/21 academic year.
The report will be shared with the College’s College Executive Committee (CEC) and the RVC Student Union in due course.
Terms of Reference:
The RETG will:
Membership:
Chair - Professor Daniel Chan
Dr Donald Palmer – Associate Professor of Immunology Dr Mehroosk Tak – Lecturer in Agribusiness Revd Andy Marshall – Chaplain
Students' Union President – Quentin Wedmore Students' Union Equality Officer - Olivia Craddock Animal Aspirations President - Lavinia Economu
The RETG is further supported by an Internal Advisor (Ferhat Nazir-Bhatti), an External Advisor (Dr.
Avtar Matharu - University of York) and an administrator (Vanessa Charlesworth)
Our plans going forward is to provide regularly updates to the RVC community including the Student Union and Alumni network via a number of communication channels.
If anyone has some questions or comments, please feel free to contact any of the RETG members.
Best wishes, Dan
Chair – Race Equality Task Group

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/black-history-month-2021:
October is Black History Month (BHM) in the United Kingdom, a month that celebrates the contributions and achievements of black people and communities, throughout the globe.
BHM gives us an opportunity to learn more about black history and culture, and to celebrate the contributions of our black communities.
This month is also a time when we should reflect on, and reinforce our commitment to fighting racism.
We celebrate BHM with recognition of the value of diversity and inclusion in our College and beyond.
This year’s theme is ‘Proud to Be’ and the RVC, RVC SU and Animal Aspirations are all pleased to stage a series of events that will celebrate and showcase the invaluable contributions, experiences and heritage of our black community.
These will include resources for students and staff, invited keynote speakers, and film screening.
As we value and recognise the principals of diversity and inclusion, Black History Month is also a time to reflect on the part we, the RVC community, play in creating an environment where all Black and Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff and students are respected, valued and treated fairly.
The RVC is committed in its duty to challenge prejudice, combat discrimination and promote equality.
I graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Ghana in 1999, before coming to the UK in 2001.
I then studied for a professional accountancy qualification with the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), qualifying in 2008.
In 2017, I graduated with an MSc from the University of London International Programmes.
I obtained my first accounting role in the UK in 2003, working with Waltham Forest College in a part-time role.
I joined the Higher Education Sector in 2009, when I worked with the Institute of Education, University of London as a Project Accountant, and then the RVC in 2013.
Before that, I worked with the Medical Research Council and the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment.
I am an Associate Professor of Immunology at the RVC and Honorary Senior Lecturer in Immunology at Imperial College London.
Prior to joining the RVC in 2002, I worked at Imperial College London and Cancer Research UK.
I attended Bradford University, King's College London and obtained my PhD at MRC Clinical Research Centre, Northwick Park Hospital.
My main research interest is focused on understanding the effect of age on the immune system.
I teach on several undergraduate courses at the RVC and am currently Senior Tutor.
I also supervise undergraduate and postgraduate projects.
I am on the Editorial Board of various scientific journals and am currently Education & Careers Secretary of the British Society for Immunology.
I am highly committed to the public engagement of science and widening access to Higher Education and contribute to several projects and organisations.
One such project, was being selected as one of the 10 British Scientist that contributed to a project commission by the Royal Society, about diversity in British Science .
I am Chair of Governors to a school in North West London.
I am the Chair of the Equality and Diversity Committee and Director of Distance Learning at RVC.
In my academic role, I have responsibility for academic leadership and strategic direction for a number of postgraduate distance learning programmes and the Professional Doctorate Programme.
I contribute to the teaching on these programmes and in other RVC courses.
I am a Commissioner of the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK and am also a member of a number of other educational networks.
Prior to joining the RVC, I worked at the Centre for Tropical Veterinary Medicine, in the University of Edinburgh.
After graduating from the University of Kent at Canterbury and the University of Manchester, I went to work for the International Committee of the Red Cross, where I spent some time working in the Great Lakes and the Horn of Africa regions supporting communities whose livelihoods had been devastated by conflict.
This marked the start of my enduring interest in international development and supporting marginalised communities.
I then moved to working in research at the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) in Nairobi/Addis Ababa.
Following my time at ILRI I embarked on a PhD at the University of Edinburgh, looking at the economic costs of livestock disease to smallholder farmers in developing economies.
My motivation has always been to undertake work that has real impact and I am committed to promoting equality and inclusivity in every aspect of the work I am involved in.
I am the Chief Information Officer and chair of the IT Operations and Management Group at the RVC.
In my role, I am responsible for defining the IT strategy, and overseeing the operational activities to ensure that IT services are efficient, effective and tailored towards the evolving requirements of the College.
I am responsible for the security of our computer systems and information assets.
I took my Bachelor’s degree at the University of Hertfordshire and pursued a career in software engineering in the private sector before moving to the NHS, and then to the RVC in 2009.
I have since gained a Master’s degree and progressed into my current role as the College’s CIO.
I am passionate about equality and diversity, and I actively support initiatives to create a level playing field, where opportunity is available to all, and reward is based on merit.
As we draw a close to Black History Month and in line with this year’s BHM theme of Proud to be….
I am pleased to share the reflections of RVC emeritus Professor Peter Lees on Professor Amoroso, who was a pioneer in the veterinary world and was the first black staff member employed by the RVC in 1935 (see below).
During his life, Professor Amoroso received a number of awards, which reflected his achievements and contributions.
He left behind his legacy - the Amoroso Award.
This award was instituted in his memory and is presented for outstanding contributions to small animal studies by a non-clinical member of University staff.
Peter Lees was the first recipient.
The Amoroso Lecture was established in 1984 in his honour.
Amo, as he was generally known, was an extraordinary character.
Latin scholars will know that his shortened name means simply “I LOVE”.
And love he did – his fellow humans, life, challenge and science.
A Trinidadian (one of 12 siblings) who studied Medicine in Dublin, he graced the Royal Veterinary College with his presence from 1935 to 1968; he was the first staff member of colour at the RVC.
In the history of RVC, he has, I believe, pride of place as a scientist.
He remains number one.
His specialisms were reproductive physiology, placentation, anaesthesia, pharmacology and many more.
He received many prizes, honorary doctorates, public honours (CBE) and, most significantly, Fellowship of the Royal Society in 1959, followed by a Honorary Associate of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons in 1960.
He was fluent in five languages and had some knowledge of Arabic; he was a gifted orator.
Professor Roger Short (Reproductive Biologist) wrote of him many years ago:
That he was able to overcome the prejudices of race and colour, so prevalent in British society in the earlier decades of this century, is a tribute to his great personal charisma, his ability to speak in many tongues and so endear himself to people in nations and cultures very different from our own, and to the sheer force of his intellect.
Professor Amoroso’s philosophy:
Consider the past for what is relevant to the present.
Consider the present for what is relevant to the formation of the future.
Consider the future for what may most enlarge man’s freedom and fulfilment.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/race-equality-charter:
The College have signed up to the Advance HE Race Equality Charter (REC) membership and have fully endorsed the REC principles highlighted below.
Under the direction of the Principal, a Race Equality Task Group has been established to provide the strategic guidance to further develop this agenda.
Further information on the RETG can be found here .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/black-history-month-2022:
Tuesday 11th October
As we continue to celebrate Black History Month in the UK, we are pleased to share a catalogue of events that are going in RVC , in and around London and virtually.
Please take the time to have a look and join in where you can.
Black History Month 2022 Events .
Of particular note, is our BHM talk & - “Involve to Evolve: Beyond October” - on Monday 24th October, 1.00-2.00pm, on Zoom.
Please do make an effort to attend.
RVC Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC), RVC SU, Animal Aspirations
Monday 3rd October
October is Black History Month (BHM) and we look forward to this year’s celebration of the culture and histories of black communities.
We will be advertising a number of events to educate ourselves and help us reflect on the contributions, achievements and experiences of black people in our communities and further afield.
This year’s events will be based around the UK and the US Black History Month themes: “Time for Change: Action Not Words” and “Black Health and Wellness”.
In preparation for BHM, we want to hear from you!
We’re inviting staff and students to highlight and share the history and achievements of black people who inspire you.
We’d also like to hear any ideas and suggestions you have for activities that you would like to see during the month.
We’ve created a padlet wall for you to post your contribution.
The link is here:
Padlet Wall - Black History Month 2022
You can choose how you want to contribute – a quote, an image, your own words – be as creative as you’d like to be!
We look forward to your contributions and to an interesting, educational and inspiring BHM.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/international-women-s-day-2023:
Today is International Women’s Day (IWD) – a global day celebrating women’s achievements around the world, both past and present.
This year’s challenging theme is #EmbraceEquity and it’s fantastic and really heartening to see so many of the RVC community striking the pose in support of  women: https://twitter.com/i/status/1633409781611233285
Collective activism is what leads to change and IWD is an annual reminder of our role in being part of the movement to drive positive change for women.
This year’s theme highlights the important distinction between equity and equality.
Equity is about recognising that people have different starting points, different advantages and challenges and it’s about acting on this, to give individuals the support, opportunities and resources that they need in order to achieve the equal outcome.
Equality remains the goal, equity is the means by which we achieve it.
As you will be aware, we successfully renewed our Athena SWAN Bronze award, given by Advance HE in recognition of an institution’s commitment to promoting gender equality.
Led by co-chairs Professor Nicola Menzies-Gow and Dr.
Sharon Kendall, the RVC Self-Assessment Team (SAT) worked over a period of 15 months to consider and further develop the RVC’s ongoing efforts in ensuring the continued improvement of the recruitment, retention, and promotion of female academic, research and professional services staff.
In celebration of some of the achievements of RVC women today, we are pleased to share the experiences of a few colleagues who have participated in the Aurora Leadership Programme and the South East Action Learning Programme (SEAL) - see below.
We would also like to share with you some IWD stories, historical information and events list.
Please feel free to add your comments and share any relevant information.
https://rvc.padlet.org/jthomas478/international-women-s-day-8th-march-embraceequity-op95iemlpfsqppea
I currently work as Infrastructure Operations Director within the Infrastructure Services Directorate (IT, Library and Estates).
I have worked at the RVC since 2002 in various role and began my management career in 2009 following the merger of the IT and Library services.
I also mentor RVC participants on the Aurora programme which is a national initiative that aims to address the under-representation of women in leadership positions in the sector.
I have been fortunate enough to advance my career from working school hours as a single mum to work my way up and assume more significant responsibilities in line with my children growing up.
I have taken on various roles within the organisation and am grateful to the RVC that my hard work, dedication, and leadership skills have been recognised.
In 2017, I earned an MA in Human Resource Management, I see continual learning as vital to growing professionally and I have leveraged my knowledge and skills to support the college's staff and students, ensuring they have access to the services and resources they need to excel.
As a woman in a male-dominated field, I have faced challenges along the way, but I have persevered and become a role model for other women who aspire to achieve success in their careers while raising a family.
On International Women’s Day I hope that my story in some way inspires women who strive to balance their personal and professional lives while pursuing their dreams.
My hard work, dedication, and commitment to my family and career serve as an example of what is possible when women are given the support and opportunities they need to thrive.
From October 2022 until March 2023, I undertook the Aurora Leadership Programme which aims to encourage women in academic and professional roles in HE to gain confidence in leadership, develop their own style and approach and inspire them to take on more leadership roles.
There were six online attendance days and there’s just about to be one final face-to-face day at the end of March, all of which have been held during my normal working hours and I’ve had the full support of my line manager to attend all of these days.
On one or two occasions I had to juggle my workload and switch a couple of meetings around, but, we were given all of the Aurora dates at the start of the programme which allowed me to plan ahead very effectively and keep these dates free.
Having a mentor is one of the requirements of the programme, and I have a wonderful and very encouraging mentor, whom I’ve met with regularly to discuss how I’m finding the Aurora programme and importantly, to nudge me to think about how I’m going to apply the concepts, learning and strategies from the programme to my day to day work and future professional career development.
I feel very positive about my experience.
It was inspirational to be taught by so many encouraging and motivational female leaders during the programme.
During each of the online Aurora days, we were on Zoom with almost 300 other women also working in academic and professional roles across universities in the UK.
Being part of this forum and being given the opportunity to share, discuss and learn from each other through the guided break-out room activities means I’ve also been able to build up a network of colleagues involved in a wide range of courses and roles within HE.
I’ve developed more confidence in leadership and am not afraid to develop my own style of leadership.
Importantly, I now have a hugely supportive and talented network of people I can contact to share ideas, or concerns or for support.
I was fortunate enough to be allowed to participate in the South East Action Learning (SEAL) programme in spring 2022.
I initially signed up to the course as I wanted to work on ways to improve my leadership approach/style.
Although not in a leadership role as such, I felt it would be very helpful for teaching having previously developed an interest in this area following completion of the NHS Edward Jenner leadership course.
My line manager supported me to attend all the meetings and was flexible with arranging cover or allowing rearranging of teaching commitments so I could attend all the meetings.
Flexibility in student tracking rotation teaching allowed me to attend meetings around seminars and farm visits, with colleagues taking on some teaching for me to cover my absence.
The SEAL course provided me with a safe environment, with a group of amazing women from a variety of universities and areas to discuss challenges that we were encountering, no matter how small or trivial they may seem.
I think it was a fantastic course, and really emphasized how to question challenging situations and actively listen.
The importance of full attendance (with no emails/phone distractions) to these meetings was stressed prior to the start of the course.
The two hours per month allocated to SEAL sessions provided thinking space for reflection, allowing for consideration of peers’ situations onto similar challenges.
I think ensuring that we had no distractions was really important to get the most out of the course which would not have been achievable without a supportive workplace.
This course has significantly impacted my career, as well as others in my group, giving us the confidence to speak up.
The majority of my SEAL peers progressed into new positions or were promoted which was fantastic to see everyone growing and developing together across the course.
I am fortunate that my group continued, after the course ended, with our own self-run meetings.
However, attendance is more of a struggle now across the board due to all our other commitments.
A great opportunity provided by RVC to help early career women in leadership.
In 2017, I moved from Edinburgh where I was working as a post-doc, to London to start a lecturer position at RVC.
I moved with my husband and two young children.
The transition was not easy since we did not have a support network here.
The plan was to start my own research group and start writing grant applications.
Indeed, in a short period I was managing a team of 6.
At that point, I realised a transition from a post-doc to a PI responsible for many people and projects.
Although, I was very well supported by my more experienced RVC colleagues, who made me feel welcome, I sensed that I would benefit from formal management and leadership training.
At that point, the AURORA leadership programme was launched and I applied with the support of my line manager and selected to attend.
That was a very inspirational course where women in different leadership positions from the academia were discussing their challenges and achievements.
This was a good opportunity to interact with colleagues from other universities, share experiences, discuss difficulties, and create a network.
The AURORA programme made me aware of the unique skills of a woman leader, raised my confidence and, with that in mind, I managed to fast-track my probation.
Moreover, the experience in the AURORA programme inspired me to get involved initially in the Equality and Diversity Committee at RVC and later in the Athena Swan working team.
Subsequently, I attended a number of internal management courses including “Developing the Confidence to Lead”, which was excellent and made me even more aware of how much energy and time one needs to invest and what kind of soft skills to build in order to successfully lead a happy team.
More recently, I applied for the SEALs programme which is addressed to more senior staff and I was selected.
This programme follows a coaching approach where I discussed specific work-related problems with colleagues from other universities towards finding realistic solutions That was an amazing and empowering experience, which made me understand that the issues a woman comes across in the working place are universal, and if you have a support network and think through properly you can come up with a workable solution for all involved.
With the support of this course as well as my line manager, head of division, and other colleagues at RVC I am now a Senior Lecturer, have a wonderful research team and tutees and feel strongly about the importance of women in academia and how much we can offer if we have the opportunities.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/pride-2024:
LGBTQ+ Pride is a powerful celebration of identity, resilience, and progress within the LGBTQ+ community.
Its origins trace back to the Stonewall Riots of 1969, a pivotal moment when LGBTQ+ individuals stood up against police harassment and discrimination in New York City.
This courageous act ignited a global movement advocating for equal rights and acceptance.
Pride Month commemorates this rich history and the ongoing fight for equality, serving as a reminder of the community’s struggles and triumphs.
By coming together to celebrate Pride, we promote this essential time for raising awareness, fostering inclusivity and celebrating the diverse identities that make up the LGBTQ+ community, ensuring that everyone feels seen, heard and valued, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.
As part of RVC’s ongoing commitment to fostering an inclusive culture, we have created different initiatives online and in person across both Camden and Hawkshead campuses:
LGBTQ+ Book Social Event on Campus (open to all students and staff):
Join us in Camden for an exciting LGBTQ+ Book Social Event followed by pizza and soft drinks!
Discover new reads, share your favourite books, and connect with fellow book lovers in a relaxed, friendly atmosphere.
Don't miss out on this great opportunity to ignite your passion for reading and make new friends at the RVC.
Talk: 'Gender Identities: How We Can Support our LGBTQ+ Students and Colleagues'
We are also excited to announce our Pride speaker, Morgan Page, Trans Manager at Stonewall, who will talk about “Gender Identities: How We Can Support our LGBTQ+ Students and Colleagues”.
This event will take place on the 17th of June, from 1-2pm, online .

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/equality-and-diversity/black-history-month:
In the UK, October is the dedicated month for honouring and celebrating the remarkable contributions of Black individuals to our society, culture and history.
Throughout the centuries, Black Britons have played pivotal roles in shaping our nation's progress.
Black History Month is an opportunity to recognize and amplify the voices of those whose stories may have been overlooked in the past.
It's a time to reflect on the enduring strength and resilience of Black communities in the face of adversity, as well as a chance to celebrate Black communities’ creativity, innovation, and contributions to every aspect of British life.
This year’s theme for Black History Month was “Reclaiming the Narrative” and we invited Baroness Valerie Amos, Master of University College Oxford, to talk on this subject.
The talk can be found on the EDI section of the intranet under links and resources.
In addition, for 2024 Black History Month we also invited everyone to join us in ‘Reclaiming the Narrative’ and to watch our showcasing of some pioneering figures on the screens of Hawkshead and Camden.
From Jessica Huntley’s groundbreaking publishing venture creating a platform for Black voices, fiction and non-fiction, poetry and children’s literature, Wangari Maathai’s “Green Belt Movement” in planting trees across Kenya to alleviate poverty to end conflict and Baroness Doreen Lawrence of Clarendon’s unwavering motivation in publicly challenging the institutional failures and racial biases that hindered Stephen Lawrence’s justice.
We also showed Sidney Poitier , a respected actor and humanitarian who redefined roles for African Americans by rejecting parts that were based on racial stereotypes and Marcus Rashford , professional footballer, who launched a program during Covid lockdown to deliver meals to disadvantaged children, reaching 4 million in the first few months.
Our Student Union members also arranged events along with a film night for the occasion.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/get-your-grades-2024-recordings:
Our Science GCSEs FREE 5 week online course designed to help students increase their grades for Science GCSEs (and will also be a useful revision for A Level/BTEC students).
This course is supported by: the Royal Society of Biology; ZSL London Zoo; Royal Society of Chemistry, the London Biosciences Innovation Centre and the Institute of Physics
Watch the recordings below:

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/rvc-is-open-for-all/get-your-grades-2025-recordings:
Our Science GCSEs FREE online course designed to help students increase their grades for Science GCSEs (and will also be a useful revision for A Level/BTEC students).

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/one-health:
Qualification: MSc
UKPASS Code: P051476
​Study Mode: Full-time/Part-time
UK Tuition Fees: MSc: £15,990
EU and International Tuition Fees: MSc: £28,920
Course Location: Camden
Application Deadline: 31 Jul 2025
Changing environmental, social and agricultural conditions are a threat to animal and human health and welfare.
Many infectious diseases can pass between animals and humans, while food production, human diet and community stability are harmed by diseases that infect livestock and wildlife.
Emerging veterinary infectious diseases and human diseases, such as highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses, emphasise the threat posed by these issues.
The One Health approach recognises the relationship between health and disease at the human, animal and environment interfaces and has become an important focus in both medical and veterinary science.
It promotes a “whole of society” treatment of health hazards and a systemic change of perspective in the management of risk.
If you are interested in One Health and the control of infectious disease (particularly in the developing world), then this unique course could be for you.
We welcome applications from individuals with a background in public health, veterinary sciences, animal or biological sciences, social and environmental sciences, ecology and wildlife health.
If you are interested in this field, but do not have the relevant background, please speak with the course directors who can consider such cases on an individual basis.
The course is delivered jointly by the RVC, University of London and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM).
The course will provide you with:
At the end of the course you will be able to:
The MSc may be completed full-time in one year or part time over two years, and consists of eight taught modules and a research project.
The course starts in September each year and you will split your time between the RVC and LSHTM.
Students then undertake a four-month research project on a topic of their choice.
There is a two-week orientation period that includes an introduction to studying at the Royal Veterinary College and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, followed by four compulsory modules:
All students take three compulsory modules:
In addition, students choose a fourth module from the following which will run from Weds afternoon to Friday for the second half of the term:
For part-time students, there are two available options.
Each option requires the completion of 4 modules in Year 1 and 4 modules in Year 2, followed by the Research Project.
Option 1:
There is a two-week orientation period that includes an introduction to studying at the Royal Veterinary College and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, followed by completion of the following four compulsory modules in Year 1:
Requires completion of the following 4 Modules in Year 2:
Option 2:
The Research Project runs in Term 3 from April through to the end of July.
Here are some examples of the research projects undertaken by previous MSc One Health students:
Find out more about what veterinary nursing at the RVC can offer you, your career and your team.
To apply for the MSc One Health: ecosystems, humans and animals, you must have (or expect to receive) a first or second class Honours degree.
Please contact our Admissions Office if you are unsure whether your degree is equivalent to a UK first or second class Honours degree.
We invite applications from candidates from a range of backgrounds, including with degrees in medicine, veterinary medicine, biological sciences, animal sciences, social sciences, statistics and economics.
If you are interested in this field, but do not have the relevant background, please contact us in advance of applying so we can consider such cases on an individual basis.
A good working knowledge of scientific English is essential in order to follow the course.
All applicants must have an acceptable English Language qualification:
For those without IELTS, please see our English Language Requirements page for a full list of qualifications we will accept as alternatives.
If you intend to apply for the course under the Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme, please note you will need to apply to both the CSC and RVC directly by the deadlines below.
Please ensure that you are eligible before submitting an application.
You will need to make clear in the Funding section of your RVC application that you are a Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme applicant.
Applications for 2025 Commonwealth Shared Scholarships are now closed.
They will re-open for 2026 entry in November 2025.
Applications to the RVC from Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme applicants need to be received by 31st January.
Priority applicants NB: Applicants who have met the English language requirements for the course (and uploaded/sent us their results) by 3rd March 2025, as well as those from the countries listed below, will be prioritised for consideration.
We have listed the equivalent qualification to a UK Bachelor Honours degree for each country, which will be needed to meet our entry requirements.
Where a qualification is not listed there is not an equivalent qualification from this country which would meet our current requirements, but qualifications studied elsewhere which are equivalent to a UK Bachelor Honours degree would be accepted.
Note: only those who have submitted applications to both the RVC and the CSC by the deadlines above will be shortlisted.
A postgraduate degree from the RVC and LSHTM is highly regarded and recognised internationally.
This course is one of very few face-to-face One Health courses designed to develop the skills and knowledge needed for resolving complex health challenges.
Ministers of State and international agencies have endorsed the One Health approach and governments are establishing joint committees between public health and veterinary authorities, with close links to wildlife and environmental agencies, with a view to developing inter-sectoral programmes.
Our Masters provides training to fulfil this growing demand.
Our graduates have a track record of successful careers in Government, research and other organisations where they are involved in the implementation and management of human and animal health programmes.
Please see the testimonial below of Jessica Floyd, one of our successful One Health graduates, who has gone on to work on human and livestock movement patterns in Kenya, and the associated risk of zoonotic disease transmission:
Jessica Floyd testimonial
Dr Pablo Alarcon : Course Co-Director (joint with Dr Sian Clarke) and Module Leader Lecturer in Animal Health Economics
Dr Rob Noad : Deputy Course Director and Module Leader Lecturer in Molecular Virology
Professor Damer Blake : Module Leader Professor of Parasite Genetics
Dr Virginia Marugan-Hernandez : Module Leader Lecturer in Molecular Parasitology
Dr Julian Drewe : Module Leader Senior Lecturer in Veterinary Epidemiology
Dr Barbara Haesler : Module Leader Lecturer in Agrihealth
Dr Louise Whatford : Module Leader Teaching Fellow in Ethics & Wildlife Welfare
Dr Imadidden Musallam : Module Leader Postdoctoral Researcher
Prof Dave Brodbelt : Module Leader Professor of Evidence Based Veterinary Medicine
Dr Ruby Chang : Module Leader Senior Lecturer in Statistics
Prof Sian Clarke : Course Co-Director (joint with Dr Pablo Alarcon) and Module Leader Professor of Epidemiology
Dr Kaha Abbas : Module Leader Associate Professor
Prof Simon Cohn : Module Leader Professor of Medical Anthropology
Prof Francesco Checchi : Module Leader Professor of Epidemiology and International Health
Dr Justin Dixon : Module Leader Assistant Professor
Prof Mishal Khan : Module Leader Professor of Global Public Health
Prof Adam Kucharski : Module Leader Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology
Prof Jo Lines : Module Leader Professor of Malaria Control & Vector Biology
Prof Michael Miles : Module Leader Professor of Medical Protozoology
Dr Ai Milojevic : Module Leader Assistant Professor
Dr Matthew Rogers : Module Leader Associate Professor
Prof Mark Rowland : Module Leader Professor of Medical Entomology and Malaria Control, and Head of Department
Prof Carolyn Stephens : Module Leader Honorary Professor of Urban Health
Miss Nina van der Mark : Module Leader Research Fellow
The tuition fees for students commencing the course in 2025/26 full time are as follows:
£28,920
For part-time fees please see this link https://www.rvc.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/fees#panel-tuition-fees-for-postgraduate-taught-and-research-students
We have a variety of scholarships, bursaries and other funding to help you with tuition fees and living expenses.
Find out more .
+44 (0) 20 7468 5147 admissions@rvc.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/residencies/small-animal/internal-medicine:
The internal medicine residency at the RVC is a three-year programme that satisfies the requirements for certification in both the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine – Small Animal Internal Medicine (ACVIM-SAIM) and the European College of Veterinary Internal Medicine – Companion Animal (ECVIM-ca).
The primary goal of the programme is to ensure that you become a diplomate of at least one of these colleges on completion of your residency.
The objectives of the medicine residency are as follows:
There is an emphasis on clinical duties, with the majority of the residency being spent participating in the clinical services of the QMHA.
While on the internal medicine service you will see referred cases, take responsibility for patients transferred from the emergency and critical care (ECC) service and also undertake evening and weekend duties on a shared rota.
The service is supported by ten faculty members; typically three or four of these will be on clinical service at any time and responsible for the day-to-day supervision of residents.
The degree of supervision is modulated as you progress through the programme.
The internal medicine service additionally benefits from the multi-disciplinary strength of the QMHA with close collaboration with other services for the optimal management of patients.
The faculty of the internal medicine service at the RVC have particular strengths in the areas of gastroenterology, endocrinology, haematology and nephrology/urology and these are our current areas of active clinical research although it is possible for residents to develop research projects in other areas.
See here for further information about the faculty of the QMHA Internal Medicine Service .
You will also undertake rotations in the following areas: anaesthesia, emergency & critical care, diagnostic imaging, oncology, cardiology, clinical pathology and neurology.
Additionally you will have a four week ‘elective’ block in the second year of your residency during which you are encouraged to visit external institutions, often abroad.
Examples of recent elective rotations include radiation therapy, haemodialysis, interventional radiology and feline medicine within the veterinary field, as well as visits to human hospitals.
All internal medicine residents are required to complete the MVetMed programme.
We encourage any prospective medicine residents to visit us, speak with our current residents and see first-hand how the service operates.
Ideally this visit would be timed before we meet to decide who to select for interview, typically this is 2 weeks after the closing date for applications.
Visits to the QMHA can be arranged by emailing QMHvisitors@rvc.ac.uk
Along with the attributes and qualifications required it is also desirable if you have:
If you have any queries about the internal medicine Residency please contact Professor Harriet (Hattie) Syme ( hsyme@rvc.ac.uk ).
For general information about the programme see: Residencies .
For details see How To Apply .
Applications for 2025 entry have now closed.
Residencies will commence on Monday 7th July 2025.
Interview dates: Interviews will likely be held in January/February 2025.
Exact dates to be confirmed.

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/support-for-students/getting-support/advice-centre/money-matters/other-funding-sources:
This page gives a number of opportunities which students may like to explore for additional funding and support while studying at the RVC.
Grants and bursaries detailed below are from grant making organisations such as educational bodies or charities.
These organisations provide grants to assist students who are in financial hardship or who are looking for help towards books, equipment and course costs.
Grants are not guaranteed to all applicants and are usually a one-off payment.
As such they should not be relied upon as part of your regular funding/financial support.
The RVC Student Union offer help with short term support to purchase essential groceries via the SU Pantry .
Complete the brief form on the RVC SU website: SU Pantry .
Successful applicants are provided with a high street food voucher via your RVC email address.
If you are having financial difficulties, we encourage you to contact the Student Money Adviser to discuss your situation and potential options: moneymatters@rvc.ac.uk .
We update this page regularly but if you are an RVC student and are aware of any other funding opportunities you feel other students would benefit from, please email moneymatters@rvc.ac.
uk and we will add to our resources when possible.
Please see below for a number of charitable organisations who offer financial grants.
Please take a look at the individual websites for details of eligibility, deadlines and now to apply.
If you would like help applying to any of these funds, please book an appointment with the Student Money Adviser or email moneymatters@rvc.ac.uk .
Here are a few websites that offer database search facilities to find details of organisations and charities that most closely fit your profile and requirements.
This is by no means an exhaustive list.
This is a list of other avenues of funding you may wish to pursue.
Some of these are aimed at students on a particular course or completing a particular placement.
For eligibility criteria, application details and more information, please visit the individual grants' website.
If you would like support when applying for any of these grants, please contact the Student Money Adviser: moneymatters@rvc.ac.uk .
advice@rvc.ac.uk 020 8051 3500
If you would like to speak with someone outside of our office hours, you can contact any of the following: Samaritans 116 123 London Nightline - 6pm-8am term time only 0207 631 0101 Vetlife Helpline 0303 040 2551
Student Centre, Camden Campus or Next to the Sports and Wellbeing Centre, Hawkshead Campus

New sentences found on https://rvc.ac.uk/study/support-for-students/getting-support/advice-centre/disabilities-dyslexia-and-long-term-health-differences/disabled-students-allowance:
Last updated 19-06-25
TIP: If you have applied for Disabled Students Allowances from SFE, check on current DSA processing times on the SFE website .
Contact the Disability Team for advice if your DSA application seems to be taking longer than stated on the SFE site.
The DSA is not means tested, which means that any other income you receive i.e.
your student loan does not affect your entitlement.
Your parent’s income will also not be taken into account.
The DSA is only available to UK students - see information for International/EU Students below.
More information about DSA from the relevant UK governments can be found in the following external links:
The application process for DSA can take some time so you are strongly advised to start the process as early as possible, even if you have not yet decided which university you want to attend.
The Disability Team at RVC are happy to advise current students about DSA and help them through the application process.
The team can also offer advice to prospective students on the DSA application process.
Existing students can book an appointment to find out more about DSA by following this link .
Prospective students can contact us on disability@rvc.ac.uk
Important: If you are experiencing a significant delay with your DSA (or other funding body-related funding) being processed, don't assume this is just because they are very busy.
Mistakes do happen and this can cause significant delays to students getting the support they need in place for the start of their course.
You can get an idea of the time your funding body should be taking to process your DSA application by using the Student Finance England (SFE): Current application timescales page , which SFE regularly update.
You can expect other UK funding bodies to operate to a similar timescale.
Some other countries or funding bodies operate a similar scheme to DSA so do check if you are not a UK home student to see what might be available in your home country from your local or national government.
For example, some part-funding can be provided for EIRE students from the Fund for Students with Disabilities .
Students funded by their research council may be eligible for support via the UKRI DSA Framework .
You can apply for the DSA if you meet the following criteria:
The definition of disability is broad.
Students with a formal diagnosis of specific learning differences, neurodivergent conditions, mental health conditions, physical disabilities, sensory disabilities and chronic health conditions are often eligible to apply and can receive invaluable support from DSA while studying.
If you are unsure if you might be eligible to apply for DSA, the Disability Team will be happy to advise you on the type of information you could provide your funding body with to help them establish your eligibility.
Students who would meet the disability criteria for DSA but are not eligible for other reasons can try other sources of funding for support, for example the Snowdon Trust .
DSA is only available for UK Home Students.
For example, some part-funding can be provided for EIRE students from the Fund for Students with Disabilities.
Students funded by their research council may be eligible for support via the UKRI DSA Framework.
Speak to the Disability Team for information about support available to international students with disabilities/learning differences at the College.
What DSA can fund can vary across funding bodies but in general it will pay (or help pay for) the cost of specialist assistive technology software, a computer on which you can run the software, ergonomic seating and posture aids if you have a physical disability that might affect ability to interact with the computer or other study aids at home, specialist training in the use of software, specialist ongoing study skills support if you have specific learning differences, specialist non-therapeutic practical mentoring support if you have mental health difficulties, BSL interpreters, specialist support professionals for visually impaired students, extra printing or consumables costs.
DSA can also help pay for additional travel costs incurred if you can't make effective use of the public transport fellow students can use to access your course.
DSA won't pay for costs not connected to a disability or costs you'd have to cover irrespective of whether you were a student.
It won't pay for medicines or specialist treatments.
DSA won't pay for the cost of diagnosing a condition.
Students who are eligible for DSA will be asked to undergo a DSA Needs Assessment, where they can meet with an experienced specialist assessor who can advise the student on the range of specialist strategies, software and support that DSA can fund and can present a case for appropriate items of equipment, software and support to be funded from DSA to the funding body.
Students can help their DSA Needs Assessor ensure they provide appropriate recommendations in their needs assessment by directing them to the RVC Information for DSA Needs Assessors page.
As an international student or if you are from the European Union, you are not eligible for the DSA.
The Royal Veterinary College may have other funding available to support you if you have additional study-related costs, Contact the Disability Team to discuss this further ( disability@rvc.ac.uk ).
You can find useful information about student funding at the RVC Student Money Matters page.
You do not have to be eligible for DSA to receive support from the college.
The college provides Reasonable Adjustments for students who have disabilities and / or learning differences, including students who have not been able to access DSA funded support.
Disability and Learning Differences are accepted and understood in UK universities and there is robust legislation in place to ensure we cannot discriminate against anyone with a long-term health condition, disability or learning difference.
We are required by law to make ‘reasonable’ adjustments for you.
We can only make individual adjustments for you if we know about your additional study needs.
You are encouraged to share information about any conditions you may have at the earliest opportunity with the Disability Team.
Your enquiry will be treated in confidence and will not jeopardise your place at the RVC in any way.