# Site: https://www.salford.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 497
# --------

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk:
Clearing is now open.
Find your ideal course and start in September.
Find out about Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study and research at the University of Salford
Explore our Doctoral School
Discover how to apply for an apprenticeship
Become an International student at the University of Salford
Study and work abroad opportunities
Information for Parents, Carers, Guardians and Supporters
As a Salford graduate, your relationship with the University continues long after you graduate
Online mentoring and networking - make the most of being part of the Salford alumni community
Help us to provide opportunities and change lives
Donate to get involved and make a difference
When you're ready - we're here!
Apply for a course through Clearing and start in September.
Contact us now to apply.
Search our courses
Come along to one of our Open Days and explore our campus in person for a taste of student life at Salford.
Learn more about us and all we have to offer by taking a virtual tour of our campus.
From student life to facilities and research, explore our institution.
Life on campus
Learn about our campus and facilities, from our sports centre to clubs and societies.
In the city
Did you know we're only a 20 minute walk from Manchester city centre?
Our accommodation
Where will you live when you study with us?
Learn more about our great accommodation options.
Sport at Salford
Keep fit while you study by joining our sports centre, based in the heart of campus.
Current students
Helpful resources you might need during your time studying us.
Our facilities
Our hands-on curriculum is supported by our industry-standard facilities and equipment.
Find out the latest at the university
Tips on navigating university life, making friends, settling in and more!
At the University of Salford, we find solutions to the problems facing the world around us.
Transforming lives and realising potential
We improve healthcare, help people with their energy bills and make the world sound better.
Driving positive change together
We empower small enterprises, large businesses and charities to innovate and deliver growth.
Where ideas are formed that shape the world
Take a walk in Celeste's shoes to see how our research impacts your daily life.
Find a course
Open Days
Virtual tour
Accommodation
Student support services
Copyright ©
                  2025
                  University of Salford

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/current-students:
A Student Handbook filled with helpful links you might need during your time studying at the University of Salford.
Below you will find four key sections outlining the different parts of the student journey - Your Responsibilities, Your Services, Your Studies, and Your Student Life.
Helpful links to the wide variety of services you have available to you as a student.
This could be everything from Wellbeing and Counselling to askUS, the best place to go when you’re not sure where to go.
Helpful links outlining some of the key responsibilities you have as a University of Salford student.
Here you can find everything from our student conduct policy to how you deal with attendance or absence during study.
Where you can find key information and course support you may need during your studies to help you achieve your potential.
Where to find links to help you make the most of your time as a Salford student.
Not sure where to go?
Our askUS team is here to help.
Below you can find helpful links to the wide variety of services you have available to you as a student.
Below you can find helpful links outlining some of the key responsibilities you have as a University of Salford student.
Student conduct
The expectations of student conduct, and the processes which the University will use to consider instances of inappropriate behaviour.
Here you can find key information and course support you may need during your studies to help you achieve your potential.
Skills
Free resources including workshops, 1-1 appointments and programmes to help you develop your academic skills.
Here you can find links to help you make the most of your time as a Salford student.
Our askUS staff can give you the right advice when you need it most, whether you have a question about finance, wellbeing, faith or visas and immigration or if you need support with your studies, your career or a disability.
Want to find more specific information?
You can speak to someone on our askUS helpdesks across our campuses or online by visiting our askUS topics section or check our askUS FAQs .
Virtual queries (telephone, email and live chat):
Face-to-face queries: Monday to Friday
There are no services at MediaCity during Trimester 3 and Vacation times.
However, you can catch the 50 bus between campuses for free by showing the bus driver your student card.
Speak to a member of the askUS via live chat between 09:00-17:00.
Support articles and automated help is available after hours.
Find links to our most commonly requested help areas.
These include: Letter requests, Exceptional Circumstances and Student Handbook.
Facebook
Instagram
X

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international:
Study at a top 10 UK university for international students - as voted by students in the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2024.
Get all the information you need before you apply to study here.
From funding and scholarships to getting your CAS and applying for your visa, we've gathered all the details you need.
If you are interested in applying to study at Salford and you are from overseas, you should read the information on this page...
We are proud to have supported over 2,500 international students with...
For country-specific information, including entry requirements, details of education consultants (agents) and information about...
As a student at the University of Salford, you will need to pay for your tuition fees and cover your living expenses.
Find out...
If you have an offer to study one of our courses and are applying from overseas, this page will tell you how to get a Student Visa...
There's so much to explore on our campus and beyond.
Find out about the facilities and services available to you.
Our students love our location for many reasons.
We’re based just minutes from Manchester, which was voted the second-friendliest...
Discover what life as a student is like at Salford, from places to eat to clubs...
We want you to enjoy your time studying here, but we understand that there may be times when you need a little extra support...
Living in student accommodation is a great way to get settled into university life, meet new people and immerse yourself in the...
We're passionate about helping our students explore career options, start up their businesses and showcase their strengths to...
Like our Facebook page
Follow us on Instagram
Join us on WeChat
Read our Made in Salford blog, which is full of content about life at Salford.
From student stories and graduate success blogs to fun things to do in Salford and advice to help you settle in, there is content for everything you need to know before joining us.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/library:
Use Library Search to discover a wealth of academic resources, including books, articles and more, from a huge range of sources.
Popular pages on the Library website
Walk-in access to study and PC spaces is available in the Library, or if you would like to book a seat prior to your visit we have specific areas in the library which are pre-bookable for study tables, PCs, Macs and study rooms.
If you would like to pre-book, decide what type of study you want to do, and where (these spaces are highlighted in blue on the floor plans), and you will be directed to the correct booking form.
We provide high-quality resources to help make your studies a success.
We recommend you start with Library Search - the gateway to our print and electronic resources, including books, journals, newspapers and databases.
The “Let's Chat” pop-up button on the bottom of this page is the best way to contact the Library.
The Library Champion Scheme is an initiative developed between The Library and the Students' Union to give students a voice in the...
We've compiled a series of subject guides to help you get access to the very...
We aim to make our facilities inclusive for all library users.
Please let us know if you notice something we could improve.
We've brought together a selection of the key resources we provide for Postgraduate Researchers.
We have extensive experience in developing online and face to face resources to support students' academic skills.
Learn about the key IT services and resources to support your studies; how to access online training , trainer-led webinars , and add IT qualifications to your CV with our Microsoft Office Specialist certification programme .
Essay mills (organisations that sell essays and assessments) target students via email and social media by offering writing support.
Essay mills are illegal and using them is plagiarism, which is a serious breach of our Academic Misconduct Procedure.
Do not respond if these companies target you.
Instead, report the email to our Digital IT team via Outlook or directly on social media (for being illegal) and block the sender.
You're not expected to know everything during your studies.
There will be times when you need support with your learning.
Whether you need guidance on university assessments or skill development there are resources for you.
Remember, plagiarism isn't the answer.
Find the right support on the Skills website .
We want to build a collection which is inclusive of all members of our student community.
We want to ensure it champions all voices, particularly those that are traditionally underrepresented in curricula and on reading lists.
Help us by suggesting a title which has motivated and inspired you, helped you with your research, developed your awareness, promoted discussions between you and your friends, challenged your perceptions or just something you have really enjoyed reading.
The books can be fiction or non-fiction, textbooks, or leisure reading, written in any language – if you want it, we will try our hardest to get it.
Action Learning in the Archives

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campus:
We are located across three campuses, Peel Park, Frederick Road and MediaCity.
Our multiple campuses feature a variety of incredible services and facilities.
Explore our services, facilities, security team, and how to travel to and from campus including travel disruptions.
The university provides a wide range of facilities and services for staff and students.
Research shows that the more a student engages with the library, the greater likelihood of them getting a higher grade degree.
On campus the University of Salford Sports Centre has 5 fitness suite rooms, a 25-metre pool, dance studio, 30+ fitness classes a...
From historic to futuristic, the University of Salford has a range of facilities to suit every event.
Discover what life as a student is like at Salford, from places to eat to clubs and societies available for all.
There are improvement works currently taking place across our campuses and around Salford which may cause delays to your journey...
Whether you need a quick bite to eat while you’re on-the-go or you fancy a filling sit-down meal, we’ve got a wide range of options that cater to a variety of needs, with catering now managed entirely in-house.
We're committed to providing sustainable and ethical catering.
We've thought carefully about every step in the process from how we...
We are investing in our campus infrastructure and green spaces to ensure that we have the best environment and facilities possible to deliver on our ambitions.
Stay updated on our building developments and how it could affect travelling to the university.
There are several improvement works currently taking place across our campuses and around Salford which may cause delays...
The University of Salford’s Campus Connectivity Plan (CCP) is the major...
We are committed to providing a proactive service that will make the campus and surrounding community a safe place in which to study, live and work.
We provide a security service that is available for advice and assistance 24 hours a day.
We are committed to providing a proactive service that will make the campus and surrounding community a safe place in which to...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/corporate-information:
By collaborating with industry we lead the way in transforming lives, stimulating discovery and realising our students’ potential.
Learn more about the bodies and teams that govern and lead the University.
Learn more about our social and economic impact, operating context, outlook, strategy and performance.
Our forward thinking approach has powered progress for 125 years.
Today, our unstoppable institution is bolstered by countless industry initiatives and innovative research programmes, building a thriving education community in Salford and beyond.
Keep up to date with the latest updates and developments from the University of Salford, as well as the many great successes of our alumni community in the latest edition of From Salford magazine.
We are dedicated to improving outcomes for people, communities, the economy and environment through everything we do.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/corporate-information/heritage:
The University of Salford formed from a merger of technical colleges and institutes, created to educate and train a growing workforce.
With a past entrenched in industry, we have continued to build on our principles of getting students work-ready.
Read more about our heritage and how it has shaped the organisation we are today.
Our past is rooted in the great Industrial Revolution of the 19th Century, which changed the world.
Salford’s thriving textile industry was fed by the Manchester Ship Canal, which opened in 1894 and gave the city direct trade access to the sea.
The Salford docks brought employment until the latter half of the 20th Century.
When the old industries went into decline, demand for new industrial skills led to the formation of the Pendleton Mechanics Institute in 1850 and the Salford Working Men's College in 1858.
These merged at the end of the century to form the Royal Technical Institute, Salford, which was opened by the Duke and Duchess of York (who later became King George V and Queen Mary) in 1896.
In 1921 The Royal Technical Institute, Salford was renamed the Royal Technical College, Salford.
In 1958 this split into two organisations: The Royal College of Advanced Technology and Peel Park Technical College.
Peel Park Technical College became Peel Park Technical Institute in 1961, the Salford College of Technology in 1970, and University College Salford in 1992.
On 10 February 1967, the Royal College of Advanced Technology became the University of Salford when Queen Elizabeth II handed over the Royal Charter.
University College Salford and the University of Salford finally merged into a single institution in 1996 – exactly 100 years after the formation of the original Royal Technical Institute.
Since receiving the Royal Charter in 1967 we have become a truly global institution that serves the needs of industry, commerce and education.
Our university community encompasses over 23,000 students, 2500 staff and 170,000 alumni who come to study, teach and research here from all around the world.
Our thriving industry-focused research is cutting edge, rising to the challenges and opportunities of the fourth industrial revolution.
As ‘thinking machines’ continue to replace human tasks and jobs, and smart cities become a reality, our focus for the next few years is to strengthen our position specifically in robotics, digital and smart living.
We already have a solid base on which to build from, as these three areas cut across everything that we already do.
Whether it be: research into ‘gentle’ robots that can handle delicate items on a production line, working with industry to deliver our leading prosthetics work that helps patients recover their movement more quickly, or students learning about systems that will safely carry people from A to B in autonomous vehicles; everything we do works alongside industry in innovative ways to meet the needs of our environment and workforce of the future.
With these strong foundations, we look forward to even greater achievements in the future.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news:
Greater Manchester Mayor Andy Burnham has visited our world-leading research facility...
A University of Salford student has spoken about landing her dream internship at a Formula...
A major donation from a national funder will enable experts at the University of Salford...
Over 44 attendees were welcomed to ‘Ripping Up the Research Rulebook: Bridging Gaps in...
University of Salford academics have hosted an essential skills programme to prepare...
Engineering firm Farrat and the University of Salford have signed an agreement to...
Bringing science to the palm of your hand, Salford academics hosted a brand-new event...
It is with great sadness that we mark the life of Jean Oglesby CBE, who has passed away...
Previous
Next

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff:
Welcome to our staff page
Technical Engineer (KTP Associate)
A.A.A.H.Aboumoemen@salford.ac.uk
More info
Less info
Lecturer in Quantity Surveying
R.Abowen-Dake1@salford.ac.uk
Professor
H.L.Ackers@salford.ac.uk
Postdoctoral Research Fellow
V.Acun@salford.ac.uk
Lecturer
K.R.Adams@salford.ac.uk
Lecturer in Cyber Security
A.A.Adeboye@salford.ac.uk
Research Fellow
S.Adelipour@salford.ac.uk
A.A.Adeniji@salford.ac.uk
Research Officer
I.Adeyemi@salford.ac.uk
E.Adu-Gyamfi@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/corporate-information/our-schools:
The university comprises the Salford School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology, the School of Health and Society, the School of Science, Engineering and Environment and Salford Business School.
University English Language and Modern Foreign Languages Teaching Centre.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/press-office:
Whether you're looking for a quote from one of our many media experts, want to get hold of good photography or would like to know about any of our initiatives, our media team will be happy to help.
Media enquiries communications@salford.ac.uk
Helen Jones Head of Communications h.m.jones@salford.ac.uk
Maria Dickinson Senior Communications Manager m.j.dickinson@salford.ac.uk
Loughlan Campbell Communications Manager (Salford School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology) l.r.campbell@salford.ac.uk
Laurissa Hackett Interim Communications Manager (Salford Business School) l.p.hackett@salford.ac.uk
Jessica Luczka (currently on maternity leave) Communications Manager (Salford Business School) j.l.luczka@salford.ac.uk
Roisin Schofield Communications Manager (School of Health and Society) r.l.schofield@salford.ac.uk
Sam Wood Communications Manager (School of Science, Engineering and Environment) s.e.wood@salford.ac.uk
Susie Mackean Communications Manager s.mackean@salford.ac.uk
Elizabeth O'Brien Communications Manager (Research and Knowledge Exchange) e.c.obrien@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability:
By embedding sustainability we will enable our university community to create positive change for society and environment.
Our campus is alive with biodiversity - from birds and bees to fungi and flowers, you could explore it with us.
Join our iNaturalist project and help us document the species around us, take part in a guided Nature Trail event, or use our self-guided Greenspaces Map!
Want to make a difference and help reduce the environmental impact of The University of Salford?
Get involved with Green Impact!
Out staff sustainability engagement programme is a great way for you to enhance sustainability at the university and receive recognition for your efforts.
Registration is now live for 2025!
Students can also gain valuable transferable skills through volunteering to support the programme.
The University of Salford is a member of WARP-it (Waste Action Reuse Portal) , a redistribution network, which works in a similar way to Ebay or Freecycle but for organisations rather than individuals.
WARP-it makes it easy for departments to give away, loan or claim items unwanted by others within the organisation and beyond.
Items which can be reused include furniture and stationery.
If you are from a local organisation interested in receiving donated items, please get in touch: eps-sustainability@salford.ac.uk .
Environmental sustainability blog
Register for our monthly newsletter
/SustainabilityattheUniversityofSalford
/sustainabilityUoS
@UoS_Sustain
/uossustain.bsky.social
@uos_sustain
/uos_sustain

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/contact-us:
If you are looking for information we can help direct you to the right team, whether you are a current student (including new students), prospective student, graduating or an alumnus.
Check out our student contacts list to find the section right for you.
These contacts are best for our new students as well.
They are trained to help you with a wide range of questions and support needs, and can get you connected into more specialist support if needed.
If you are a prospective student, teacher or careers advisor, there are plenty of ways that you can get in touch with the team, get your questions answered and find out more information.
Where to start if you are looking for information about graduation or to contact our alumni team.
This includes alumni benefits and services, including our online networking mentoring hub, From Salford.
For call forwarding and other enquiries Call: +44 (0) 161 295 5000
For call forwarding and other enquiries
Our askUS Team Registration and Administration Programmes and Studies Student Support Teams Wellbeing and Counselling IT Support and Student Log Ins Campus Safety Urgent Assistance Campus and Travel
Call: +44 (0)161 295 5000 Email: askus@salford.ac.uk Want to find more specific information?
You can speak to someone on our askUS help desks across our campuses, or check our askUS topics section and askUS FAQs .
You can contact the Registration team by phone or email.
Call: +44 (0)161 295 0023 Email: registration@salford.ac.uk
You can contact us about programmes and studies by reaching out to askUS.
Call: +44 (0)161 295 5000 Email: askus@salford.ac.uk
The best place to start is always to reach out to our askUS Team , they can help direct you to the appropriate team for your enquiry and help with booking appointments and providing contacts.
If you already know the relevant support team you can find additional information and contact information below.
If you are a student, you can access free and confidential counselling through the HealthHero phone line - available 24 hours a day, seven days a week: +44 (0)800 970 1080 .
Wellbeing Advisors offer phone triage and face-to-face sessions throughout the week, as well as follow-up sessions where appropriate.
Call: +44 (0)161 295 5000 Fill in the online self-referral form (A Wellbeing Advisor will contact you by phone to discuss your support needs and appointment options.)
You can contact our Digital IT Service Desk team by logging a self-service ticket or Live Chat​ ​​​​​​via our IT Service Portal .​ If you require urgent support, please call us on +44 (0)161 295 2444 between 08:00-17:00, Monday to Friday (except bank holidays).
Face to face help from the team is available at the Tech Bar on the ground floor in Clifford Whitworth Library.
It is staffed Monday to Friday, 09:00-16:00 (excluding bank holidays and the University closure period during the Winter Break).
You can contact our Digital IT Service Desk team by logging a self-service ticket or Live Chat​ ​​​​​​via our IT Service Portal .​
If you require urgent support, please call us on +44 (0)161 295 2444 between 08:00-17:00, Monday to Friday (except bank holidays).
Our campus security team is available for advice and assistance 24 hours a day.
We are based at Maxwell Building and can be contacted on the following phone numbers: Control Room: +44 (0)161 295 4773 Emergencies (for emergencies only and not IT issues): +44 (0)161 295 3333
We are based at Maxwell Building and can be contacted on the following phone numbers:
If you feel seriously at risk or are at immediate physical threat call 999 to ask for the police.
Control Room: +44 (0)161 295 4773 Emergencies (for emergencies only and not IT issues): +44 (0)161 295 3333 If you are concerned about the immediate wellbeing and welfare for either yourself or a fellow student, then you can find the relevant support on concerns including violence, suicide and any other immediate risks to individuals.
If you are concerned about the immediate wellbeing and welfare for either yourself or a fellow student, then you can find the relevant support on concerns including violence, suicide and any other immediate risks to individuals.
View our student contacts
View our perspective student contacts
View our Alumni or Graduating contacts

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing:
Interested in studying at the University of Salford?
Clearing 2025 is now open!
When you've received your results, contact us to apply.
Make exciting plans for your future.
This is your time to become unstoppable.
Call +44 (0)300 555 5030
Request a call back
We are open from 10:00 to 16:00 Monday to Friday.
Call +44 (0) 300 555 5030 now to explore your options and apply.
Every year, thousands of students find their ideal university course through Clearing.
Whether you've changed your mind about what or where you want to study, you don't get the exam results you need for your firm or insurance choices, or you're applying to university for the first time, Clearing gives you another opportunity to find the perfect course for you.
You can apply through Clearing if:
If you're thinking about applying to university through Clearing, we recommend getting a head start on your research.
That way, you'll be well prepared when you're ready to apply.
You can apply for one of our courses through Clearing as soon as you've received all your results.
The best way to apply is to call our Clearing hotline on +44 (0)300 555 5030 – this is the fastest way to reach us and secure your offer.
When you call our team, we'll ask you how many UCAS tariff points you've got from your qualifications.
Not sure?
Don't worry - you can use our handy UCAS tariff points calculator to work it out in seconds.
If calling isn’t convenient right now, you can also request a call back or apply online .
After you’ve submitted your form, we’ll be in touch within one working day or sooner.
At the University of Salford, we’re dedicated to providing you with the best university experience possible – and that starts when you apply for a course.
When it comes to your future, it’s experience that counts, and through our courses, we like to put you in real-life situations that give you a taste of what your future career will be like.
Industry at Salford underpins everything we do, and many of our courses are created with industry wrapped around them.
Whether it's the opportunity to study abroad, or to showcase your talents on a work placement or internship, our courses can provide you with an edge that is sought after by employers in many sectors across the world.
We offer a wide range of courses here at Salford, so you can find options that match your interests and goals.
Whether your passion lies in science, technology, healthcare, humanities, business, media, or the arts, our courses are designed to equip you with the skills and experience needed to launch your future career.
You can browse all our courses in Clearing using our course search tool or explore some of our most popular courses, including:
The best way to prepare for Clearing is to make a head start on researching courses and universities that are a good fit for you.
It's also good to familiarise yourself with the process of applying through Clearing, as this can differ depending on your circumstances.
Browse our full range of courses in Clearing .
With many options available, you're sure to find one that matches your interests and career goals.
When you call to apply for a course through Clearing, we’ll ask how many UCAS tariff points you have to check if you’re eligible.
UCAS points turn your qualifications (like A-levels or BTECs) into a single score, which helps us assess your application.
When you've got your results use our UCAS Tariff Points Calculator to work out your points — it’s quick and easy.
We've put together a straightforward guide so you can find out everything you need to know about Clearing – from how it works to when to apply.
Whether you already have your results, or you're waiting for results day, read our FAQs now to make sure you're fully prepared.
Applying to Salford through Clearing is simple, and we've made it even easier with our Early Access Club .
It's quick to join, and we'll send you a dedicated phone number for priority access to our Clearing team.
Get advice, guidance and support in Clearing.
We'll help you take the next step.
Hear more from Elizabeth, Sara, Lloyd and Rebecca, who all secured their places at the University of Salford through Clearing.
Discover their experiences of applying and find out what they’d recommend to other students going through the process.
If you have a question about any of our courses or are ready to apply, contact us today.
The quickest way to reach us is by phone.
Call us on +44 (0)300 555 5030 to speak with a member of our team.
If you're unable to call at the moment, you can also request a call back or apply online .
You only need to complete one of these steps – once we have your details, we’ll be in touch.
To find out more about how Clearing works, take a look at our Clearing 2025 FAQs .
Clearing home
Clearing FAQs
Student Clearing stories

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/undergraduate:
Choosing a university is one of the biggest decisions you'll make - and we want to help you make the right one.
Want to start your course this September?
Apply through Clearing and take the next steps towards university life.
Make Clearing your breakthrough moment.
Learn more today – and once you’ve got your results, apply.
At our Open Days you’ll get a real sense of what studying with us is like.
You’ll get to take part in talks and Q&As, speak to staff and students, tour our campus, explore our accommodation and much more.
Explore our campus, learn more about our courses and discover your potential here at Salford through our virtual platform.
Visit our Made in Salford blog and find out how to make friends at university,  things you didn't know you could do in Salford, life on campus and more!
If you're living off-campus or considering commuting to university from a little further afield, we’re well set up with transport links and on-campus facilities to help you settle into university life.
Search now
There are countless reasons why our university could be the place for you, including our unbeatable links to industry, state-of-the-art facilities and award-winning academics.
But the thing we love most about Salford is the community our staff and students have built together, to make our campus a warm and welcoming place to live and study.
Discover the vibrant city life of Manchester and Salford, from the beauty of the...
Did you know that if you apply for a loan through Student Finance, you won't start paying this back until you're earning over £25,000?
Find out more information about fees and additional funding, including bursaries and scholarships, and when you can apply for financial support.
Once you've had an offer accepted with us, you may start thinking about where you're going to live once your studies begin.
Whether you're considering staying in university accommodation, living off-campus or commuting from home, we've provided the key information you need to help you make a decision.
The majority of our undergraduate applications are via UCAS, but there are some exceptions.
See our how to apply page for further information to help you get started.
Once you've made an application to study with us, you'll receive a decision on whether your application has been successful.
Find out more including what to expect next, information on fees and funding and key dates for your diary.
If you don't have enough UCAS points, there are alternative options to consider, such as the Salford Alternative Entry Scheme .
At Salford, we have a number of support systems in place to help you thrive while you study with us.
See what support services are available.
Whether you want to order a prospectus or ask a question, get in touch with us and one of our friendly team will be able to help.
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on TikTok
Undergraduate events
Information for parents and supporters
Search for a course

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate:
Whether you want to follow your passion, advance your career or enter the world of academia, here’s where you start.
Have a look at our postgraduate study options then join one of our events to find out more.
Our range of master’s courses can give you the next step in your career, or provide an opportunity for you to take a different direction.
Follow your passion and join our supportive community in our Doctoral School.
In addition to our full courses, we also offer a range of single modules that can be studied over one semester.
If you’re not quite sure if postgraduate study is right for you, or want to find out more about one of our courses, why not come to one of our events?
If you’re unsure of the difference between an MSc and a PhD, or confused about how to access funding options, have a look at our FAQs.
If you are from overseas and interested in applying for postgraduate study, you can find more information about entry criteria, application deadlines and scholarships below.
Postgraduate open days
How to apply

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/doctoral-school:
Becoming a world-class researcher is challenging yet rewarding.
It takes dedication, hard work and a lot of support.
It doesn’t matter whether you’re a current or prospective research degree candidate, our Doctoral School is here to provide that support.
It's an exciting time for research at the University of Salford.
As part of our vibrant and diverse research community, you’ll be guided by our experienced academic supervisors and helped by a team of highly trained administrators, researcher developers and managers - all focused on enabling your success.
Because we understand that your research journey is as unique as you are, we tailor our training and development opportunities to your needs, helping you become the best researcher that you can be.
We are always thinking across disciplines, working with industry and delivering research with real world impact.
We provide an imaginative and engaging range of social activities and a broad programme of research specific seminars, wellbeing workshops and conference style development days.
This way, you’ll be exposed to innovative research ideas and made aware of opportunities; all while making friends, building your network, developing your resilience and rising to the challenge of becoming a successful researcher.
All of this means that by the time you graduate - whether you continue your career in academia or take up a role in industry - you can take that next step with confidence.
The Doctoral School is delighted to be offering 10 PhD widening participation scholarships for UK candidates whose studies commence in September/October 2024/25 and 15 Research Masters (MPhil) UK fees scholarships for University of Salford graduates, for the academic year 2024/25.
We offer a wide range of training and support designed to meet your specific needs including:
Find out more about what it's like to be a postgraduate research student at Salford.
Read about the experiences of some of our students below.
PhD student in Prosthetic Science
PhD student in Business and Management
PhD student in Breast Imaging
Research supervision is a demanding and complex role.
To ensure that you receive the highest standards of supervisory support, we have invested significantly in the development of our supervisor training programme.
Our academic colleagues complete this programme before supervising a research student and refresh their knowledge and skills every three years.
We also have a Supervisor Network that supports and develops best practice and offers opportunities for supervisors to meet and discuss topics.
Research students working in STEM subjects can request a creative coach as part of their supervisory team who can advise on impact, public engagement and ways of thinking differently about the research project.
The Doctoral School has a Steering Group, run by and for our postgraduate research community, who focus on wellbeing and a healthy work/life balance.
The Doctoral School organises social events, days out, craft sessions and networking lunches.
A full-time PhD takes three years to complete.
However, at Salford there are several other possible options to choose from; for example, a part-time PhD which takes five years.
Below is an example of a typical timeline for a full-time PhD.
For details of the timelines for all other study modes, and more information on studying a research degree have a look at our PGR study guide .
Start
Year 1 (12 documented supervision meetings)
Year 2 (12 documented supervision meetings)
Year 3 (12 documented supervision meetings)
Viva Voce
You will need to pay annual tuition fees, which vary depending on the programme you’re studying.
We offer a range of discounts to our postgraduate research students including a 20% reduction if you’re a Salford graduate and choose to continue your studies with the university.
You can find out more about fees, including the discounts you may be eligible for, on our postgraduate research fees and funding page.
Applications for postgraduate research degrees are centered around your research proposal.
To help you with this, we've outlined important dates, the information we require, tips on constructing your proposals and the contact information for each school's Admissions team in the link below.
Science, Engineering and Environment pgr-supportssee@salford.ac.uk Health and Society pgr-supportshas@salford.ac.uk Arts, Media and Creative Technology pgr-supportsam@salford.ac.uk Business School pgr-supportsbs@salford.ac.uk You can also contact individual central PGR support team members by using the following details: Dr Katherine Yates - Director of the Doctoral School - k.l.yates@salford.ac.uk Tracie Harrington-Lord - Doctoral School and Research Manager - t.harrington-lord@salford.ac.uk Tracy Ireland - Researcher Development and Support Administrator - t.j.ireland@salford.ac.uk
You can also contact individual central PGR support team members by using the following details:
Find Your Research Area
Postgraduate Open Days
How to Apply

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Find out more about apprenticeships, whether you're interested in becoming an apprentice or you're an employer who wants to work with us.
We offer a wide range of apprenticeship programmes across Science, Engineering, Construction, Nursing and Health
As a quantity surveyor, you will manage and control financial aspects of the construction...
This degree apprenticeship aligns with apprenticeship standard ST0417, which includes on...
Construction project managers bring new development plans into reality.
Gain the knowledge...
The Nursing Associate is a highly trained support role to deliver effective, safe and...
The Advanced Clinical Practitioner Master's Degree Apprenticeship is a HEE accredited...
This BSc (Hons) Public Health Practitioner degree has been developed through consultation...
If you want to gain experience while you study and earn a wage at the same time, an apprenticeship could be the right route for you.
An apprenticeship offers an alternative route to getting a university qualification that allows you to graduate debt-free and earn...
Our apprentices choose our courses to gain hands-on practical experience, whilst...
Learn more about the companies we already work with, and find out how this alternative route to higher-level qualifications can be accessed by your current employees or used as a tool to attract new talent to your business.
For information on safeguarding, subcontracting and our British values statement:
The Apprenticeship Services Unit at the University of Salford are here to support you throughout your apprenticeship journey.
From...
You can get help from the government to pay for apprenticeship training.
The...
In 2024, Ofsted inspected our apprenticeship provision and has confirmed our grading outcome as Good .
This outcome is a testament to the hard work, commitment, and dedication of colleagues and employers in supporting our apprentices to develop substantial new knowledge, skills and behaviours, whilst having the best apprenticeship experience possible.
Amongst the findings, our strengths include:
Every February, we take part in the UK's national celebration of apprenticeships with events and activities throughout the week.
This year, we had a lot to celebrate as we've seen our apprenticeship provision continue to grow and develop, in part due to the over half a million pounds in funding we received from the Office for Students.
National Apprenticeship Week is our opportunity to celebrate the achievements of Salford apprentices and the positive impact they are having on their communities, workplaces, and the wider economy.
Visit our webpage to hear inspiring stories from our apprenticeship community and catch up on all our National Apprenticeship Week activities.
For any questions, please contact the Apprenticeship Services Unit through our contact form or the email below, or contact our Development and Engagement Managers directly.
Apprenticeship Services Unit apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk +44 (0)161 295 3063 Arron Ward - Development and Engagement Manager for the School of Science, Engineering and Environment a.p.ward@salford.ac.uk Neil Holcroft - Development and Engagement Manager for the School of Health and Society and Salford Business School n.a.holcroft@salford.ac.uk
Apprenticeship Services Unit
Arron Ward - Development and Engagement Manager for the School of Science, Engineering and Environment
Neil Holcroft - Development and Engagement Manager for the School of Health and Society and Salford Business School

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international-opportunities:
Experience the opportunity of a lifetime and take your studies or work overseas.
It's your chance to:
If you're a prospective or current student at the University of Salford and wish to explore opportunities for studying and working abroad, including our well-established international partnerships, visit outgoing students.
Students can receive funding for their overseas placements via the Turing Scheme.
To find out more regarding eligibility and grant rates, visit our Turing Scheme page.
We are partners with institutions across the globe, giving current Salford students and students from abroad the opportunity to take part in one of our schemes.
Visit Our Partnerships for more information.
If you’re a student from an overseas institution wanting to know more about studying at Salford, visit incoming students.
For key information for our partner institutions including application details, deadlines, language requirements and more, visit information for partner universities.
Contact the team

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/parents:
As parents, carers and supporters, we want you to have easy access to all the information you might need to support our applicants for the big decisions ahead.
"My favourite thing about Salford’s campus is its location!
I like it being a campus university with everything you need such as accommodation, a student store, the SU, so many of the lecture halls all being located in one place, creating a real sense of community.
At the same time, we are only a short walking distance away from Manchester city centre, which is great for plans outside of studying, such as going to concerts or coffee dates with friends."
Max, BA (Hons) Journalism (Broadcast)
If you want to find out what it's like to study here, then look no further: discover our Made in Salford blog, written by current students for students.
Throughout the year, we host events for parents, carers and supporters and provide updates and support on the application process.
To ensure you receive our updates, sign up for our Student Supporters newsletter below.
As a parent, carer, guardian or supporter, you'll likely play an active part in helping your student make decisions about studying at university.
We understand there's lots of information to take in while helping them choose the right institution, so we want to make it easier for you.
We understand you want to support your applicant in making an informed decision about studying with us, so we've produced these...
If the student you support is going to be applying to study at university for...
All applications to full-time undergraduate course at UK universities must be made through UCAS.
It’s important to keep UCAS deadlines in mind as missing them could jeopardise the student's application.
Check out some key UCAS dates below and note them in your diary.
Questions
The majority of undergraduate applications are made via UCAS, but there are some exceptions.
Going to university is a big investment - but nobody should be put off applying because of the cost.
We have two partnered accommodation options for applicants to choose from: Peel Park Quarter, or John Lester...
Whether you're a parent, carer, supporter, sibling, teacher or friend - you're welcome at one of our Open Days...
There are countless reasons why your student should study with us, including our unbeatable links to industry, state-of-the-art facilities, award-winning academics and the option for students to study or work abroad .
But the thing we love most about Salford is the community our staff and students have built together, making it a warm and welcoming place to live and study.
We have a long history of providing people with the tools they need to succeed...
Make sure you join our Facebook group, exclusively for parents, carers and supporters of students who are applying to the University of Salford in 2025.
It's a great way to keep in the loop with key updates and deadlines throughout the application cycle and connect with other parents and supporters.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/alumni:
As a Salford graduate, your relationship with the University continues long after you graduate.
As a member of the alumni community, we are committed to offering you lifelong support and access to a range of exclusive benefits and services , including your online networking mentoring hub, From Salford .
Follow us on X , Facebook and LinkedIn .
As a Salford graduate, we are delighted to offer you lifelong access to a range of exclusive benefits and services, including continued access to the library and careers service and much more.
From Salford is an online mentoring and networking hub that truly enables you to make the most of being a member of the Salford alumni community.
On From Salford you can network exclusively with fellow Salford graduates, find a mentor, access digital resources and connect with your fellow alumni throughout the world.
Alumni events take place throughout the year, from lectures on campus and around the globe, to reunions, discussions and networking opportunities.
Call for nominations are now open!
Comedian and filmmaker, Ben Hodge, tells us what trans representation means to him.
Finance Director Kelly Phillips talks about her career path, her experience working at Netflix, and why she thinks nurturing the next generation of talent is important.
Salford alumnus and US TV Executive Producer Rob Bagshaw shares his valuable insight into working in TV.
Help us to provide opportunities and change lives.
Our annual alumni magazine, From Salford magazine, shares the latest news and updates from the University as well as celebrates the successes of our graduates.
A place for you to share your story and find out how to make the most of your exclusive alumni benefits and services.
A dedicated resource for recent graduates designed to support you in your transition from University to Graduate Life.
Contact us
Donate
Alumni

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving:
At the University of Salford, we have a long held belief in education for all.
Your generosity funds scholarships and bursaries for gifted individuals who would struggle to afford the costs of their studies.
It supports cutting-edge research and special projects on campus.
And it improves the experience of our current students during their time at Salford.
At the University of Salford, we're honoured to have a diverse community of supporters who share our vision for creating a better future for those within and around our institution.
Over the last three years, our donors, volunteers, and friends have helped us to provide our students, staff and community with life-changing experiences in a range of areas, including employability, entrepreneurship, health and wellbeing, research, community initiatives and more!
As an institution, the University of Salford plays a significant role in driving social mobility in our region as we help to raise the aspirations of young people whilst supporting our current students and alumni as they strive to achieve their dreams.
With the encouragement of our supporters, we have continued our incredible work and were not only ranked 6th on the Social Mobility Index for 2022 but partnered with the Social Mobility Pledge.
To read about Philanthropy in action within our community and difference our supporters have made, see below.
We would like to say a massive thank you to every individual and organisation that has helped us to create incredible opportunities for everyone at Salford.
£32,000 has been generously donated via legacies or in memory of a loved one.
This year we opened the university’s first legacy garden, to commemorate those who have remembered the University in this way.
With thanks to our Friends of Energy House 2.0, in 2022 we raised a total of £120,000.
£60,000 of the funds raised went towards the Impact Fund.
The other half of the  funding was awarded to a PhD.
In 2023, we raised almost £300,000.
£95,000 will go towards the Impact Fund, £170,000 will be spent on two PhDs, and the remainder will be spent on scholarships across a range of programmes.
Nearly £10,000 has been donated to support women in STEM, including the Gittins Engineering Scholarship which supports 3 women who wish to pursue a career in the STEM industry.
10 student focused projects launched  through the Revive Grants and Salford  Advantage Fund Grants, including: Creative Encounters, Identifying Reasons - Mental Health, STEM Future Leaders and more.
Through our partnership with IntoUniversity, thanks to our  donors, we have raised nearly £400,000, which is  estimated to benefit over 1,000 local school pupils a year  who aspire to attend university.
Alumni and friends of the university have been supporting our fundraising efforts since 2004, supporting students and projects across different areas of the university to enable us to offer a world class student experience.
The success of these projects is thanks to lots of donors giving what they can.
Each year donations made by graduates, friends and staff of the university help countless students take advantage of all that a Salford education has to offer.
Thanks to you, over £1.5m has been generously donated and pledged in the last year to support a range of causes across campus, from scholarships to community outreach projects and developing our world-class facilities.
Now you can get involved and help make a difference.
The funding structure of a university is complicated.
Traditional sources of funding don’t reach all sorts of important projects that have a tremendous impact on students, on our community and the wider world.
That’s why we need your help – whether you are able to support us with £3 per month, or a gift that can transform our campus – our strength is through working together.
However you choose to support us, your donation will make a big difference to what we can achieve.
Read about the causes you can donate to below and choose to make either a single or regular gift.
100% of your donation will directly support the area you chose to support.
Alternatively, you can allow us to direct your support to where it is needed the most by choosing to either make a single gift, or making a regular gift to the Greatest Need Fund.
Change lives at the University of Salford by making a single gift to one of the causes mentioned above.
Contact the Senior Philanthropy Manager, Nic Whyley.
Gifts of £250 or more to the university can be acknowledged with a range of naming opportunities on campus.
Find out more about naming opportunities .
Keep up to date with the latest news and stories from across campus by following us on the accounts below.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/donate-now:
You can make a gift to the University of Salford on the donation form below.
Read more about our funds .
Please note that upon completion of the form and clicking 'Checkout', you will be directed to a Blackbaud Payment Services page to complete your gift.
The University processes donations through Blackbaud to ensure security and PCI compliance.
The University bears the cost of the Office of Alumni Engagement and Development staff and all of its fundraising activities - donations are not used to meet these costs and 100% of any philanthropic gifts received by the university are directed to the area which the donor chooses to support.
For more information on payment methods, on how you can make a difference, or to ask any questions about your support, please contact the Senior Philanthropy Manager, Nic Whyley .
For naming opportunities, please visit Your Name on Campus .
Our privacy statement explains how we gather information on our alumni, supporters, and potential supporters, how we may use and hold personal information, and what your rights are.
You can read our full privacy statement , but below is a brief summary:
It is always your choice about how we use your personal information and how we contact you.
Please contact us to change your communication preferences or to change the way we use your data via email: alumni@salford.ac.uk or visiting our Alumni communication preferences .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research:
We are transforming lives, we’re stimulating discovery and we’re realising potential in our city region and beyond.
It starts in Salford.
A place where ideas are formed that shape the world.
At the University of Salford, we are proud to be at the heart of the world-leading innovations around social change and economic development that have defined Salford and Greater Manchester since the industrial revolution and transformed it into the thriving city region it is today – a place where ideas are formed that shape the world.
We take pride in our ability to blend real-world experience with cutting-edge research; a combination that propels us forward as unstoppable innovators committed to achieving meaningful impact.
Through collaborative partnerships, we ensure that our research not only meets the highest academic standards but also translates into practical solutions that benefit society on a local and global scale.
Whether it’s through collaborations with SMEs to drive innovation, partnerships with large businesses for impactful research, or working closely with charities and policy makers to influence positive change, we are dedicated to delivering a lasting economic and social benefit to drive us towards a more prosperous world.
Our mission remains true to our founding principles; transforming lives, stimulating discovery, and realising potential.
At the University of Salford, we find solutions to the really hard to solve problems facing the world around us.
From our unique position at the heart of the community, we empower those around us to transform the everyday lives of people in Salford and beyond.
We work with our partners to improve healthcare, help people with their energy bills, make the world sound better, boost the economy and influence policy.
Our research revolves around four themes.
These themes are not just focal points; they are pathways to a future where knowledge is a catalyst for positive change.
By strategically aligning our research endeavours with these themes, we are dedicated to shaping a more prosperous world where productivity thrives, communities flourish creatively and resiliently, environments are sustainable, and living healthily is a shared aspiration.
We explore the mechanisms driving the success and wellbeing of individuals, organisations and society by drawing on our long history of working with local, national and international businesses and policymakers on issues around economic development.
We look to support a society where individuals can thrive in good health by exploring a wide range of issues linked to physical, mental, and social wellbeing.
We aim to address environmental challenges and ensure a sustainable future for generations to come by developing strategies to support a resilient and balanced coexistence between humanity and the natural world.
We enable communities to navigate challenges, adapt to change, and flourish through creative problem-solving by working together to co-create innovate research agendas which lead to collaborative solutions.
We continue to connect knowledge with practical applications to deliver tangible, lasting benefits for people and communities in the Greater Manchester city region and beyond.
The University of Salford's expertise has long been a catalyst for transformational change and real-world impact.
Insights...
We use our expertise to work with partners to drive forward business innovation ...
We are committed to supporting a vibrant and inclusive research culture that allows our people to develop into creative leaders...
Our researchers are unstoppable innovators applying real-world experience to cutting-edge research to achieve meaningful impact...
It doesn’t...
Read how our research experts are hitting the headlines.
As part of International Women’s Day 2025, the University of Salford is celebrating the extraordinary women leading groundbreaking...
New research by a Salford University Fellow aims to use AI to help vulnerable countries in Africa facing increased flooding risk...
A network of engineers, policymakers, industry stakeholders and scientists, including the University of Salford, will take on one...
For more information, please get in touch.
Our research
Expertise
Research culture
Postgraduate study
Partnering with business

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise:
Insights developed at the University have been an integral part of Greater Manchester’s evolution into a diverse city region with a rich economic and cultural landscape that is shaping the wider world.
By working together with those that can benefit the most from our research - from SMEs to policymakers - we ensure that our research not only meets the highest academic standards but also translates into practical solutions that create impact on a local and global scale.
Through collaborative partnerships, our researchers use their deep expertise to inform a more prosperous world where productivity thrives, communities flourish, environments are sustainable, and living healthily is a shared aspiration.
Our interdisciplinary Research and Knowledge Exchange Centres bring together experts from across the University to address current global challenges relating to technology, health and wellbeing, urban and natural environments, and resilience and creativity in society.
Our research-driven insights are helping our partners shape a new sound era via innovative technology.
Our research is leading to new clinical standards and treatment guidelines that are addressing many important health challenges limiting mobility around the world.
Our research informs a one-stop shop for SMEs developing robotics and automation alongside other innovative digital technologies into their business.
Our ability to blend real-world experience with cutting-edge research propels us forward as unstoppable innovators committed to achieving long-lasting impact and a more prosperous world.
The quality of our work is demonstrated by the range of our research achievements, as well as our performance in assessments such as the Research Excellence Framework.
How we are creating meaningful change in the world around us...
A world-first research project designed to help create the energy-efficient homes of the future has won a prestigious national...
The rich genetic diversity and evolutionary history of primates – the group that includes monkeys, apes, lemurs and humans...
Upper limb prosthetics research is a fast-moving field and Salford researchers’ expertise in this area led to an invitation to...
For more information, please don’t hesitate to get in touch.
Email: innovation@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-people:
Our researchers are unstoppable innovators applying real-world experience to cutting-edge research to achieve meaningful impact and a more prosperous world.
At the heart of the University of Salford lies a dynamic and exceptional community of researchers who are the driving force for our success.
Fuelled by passion, expertise, and unwavering dedication, our researchers play a pivotal role in shaping the university's reputation as a hub for transformative knowledge.
Our diverse team is made up of individuals from a wide range of backgrounds, including health professionals, architects, business leaders, nurses, physiotherapists and more, who are now applying their first-hand real-world experiences to their research projects.
Unstoppable innovators making headlines...
Dr David Frayne, University Fellow from the School of Health and Society, has been awarded the ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize for...
The University of Salford’s Intellectual Property and Commercialisation Manager, Sarwat Howe, has just returned from a five month...
This Occupational Therapy Week, we are proud to introduce our Head of Occupational Therapy, Dr Bethan Collins and celebrate the...
As policymakers descend on Baku, Azerbaijan for COP29 next week, the University of Salford’s sustainability, climate and...
The British Academy has awarded 45 Postdoctoral Fellowships, worth over £15.9 million, to outstanding early career researchers in...
The School of Science, Engineering and Environment at The University of Salford is pleased to announce that Professor Mike Wood...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/research-culture:
We are committed to supporting a vibrant and inclusive research culture that allows our people to develop into creative leaders.
This culture is defined by the values, behaviours, expectations and attitudes that run throughout our research endeavours.
It shapes the ways in which we engage with our collaborators, funders, and partners and is reflected in the ways in which our research efforts are recognised and rewarded.
Our programmes of support have been designed to develop talented researchers at all stages of their career.
We award widening participation scholarships to some of our most capable post-graduate researchers every year and have appointed future research leaders to our University Fellows Programme.
We also provide funding for our staff to address research culture challenges or enhance existing practice.
This work includes addressing issues of equity, diversity and inclusion, fostering best practice in career development and community building, enabling open research practices, and developing collaboration, not competition.
"I have found a supportive environment here at the University of Salford, especially for my research into the criminal justice vulnerabilities of individuals with Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASD).
"As a result of the positive environment and support from senior colleagues, I was able to undertake research that resulted in valuable impacts on policy and practice.
My research has been used as evidence in court cases and has also improved the support for around 700 children each year who enter care."
Dr David Junior Gilbert, University Fellow and Salford PhD graduate
Our Fellowships and Grants Academy offers bespoke training and support to develop the next generation of research leaders across the University, helping them to obtain research funding and establish their research independence.
Our annual Celebration of Innovation awards ceremony recognises how our people have applied cutting edge insights and real-world experience to power progress and achieve meaningful impact across a variety of global challenges every year.
21 outstanding early career academics delivering transformational research across our four schools.
These prestigious appointments are tackling some of the most pressing problems facing the world today, from climate change to inequality, through world-leading research and innovation.
All our Fellows complement and extend research within our areas of expertise and they are developing new partnerships with public, industry and third sector organisations.
Learning through cohorts, connections and community.
Our colleagues, early career researchers and postgraduate research students undertake active learning in an inclusive environment with others at similar career stages and, while doing so, build connections across disciplines to broaden perspectives and encourage inter- and cross-disciplinary collaboration.
Salford Postgraduate Annual Research Conference (SPARC) is our forum for developing research and offers a space for you to exchange ideas with other researchers.
Held every year, this two-day conference attracts a large number of researchers from across a range of disciplines.
In 2010, we were one of a small group of institutions in the UK to first participate in and be awarded the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research award.
As part of this award, our support and development of researchers is aligned to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers , as we follow a comprehensive action plan to ensure that our activities are effective.
Since first receiving this first award, we have prioritised our researcher development programmes, regularly evaluating what we do, which has ensured we continue to retain the award.
Committed to delivering excellent research with impact, the University of Salford holds itself to the highest standards of research integrity through honesty, transparency and rigour.
For more information about our culture, please don't hesitate to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate-research:
At the University of Salford, we are committed to solving many of the complex challenges society faces today, through pioneering challenge-led research and solutions-focused enterprise.
Our innovative research environment is recognised around the world, offering PGR researchers the platform to establish a profile and develop international networks.
We have a large community of research students across our different research centres.
All our researchers have access to our Doctoral School, where we offer student support and training to help you become the best researcher you can be.
Choosing the right university is a big decision, so take a look at the information below to find out more about becoming a PhD student at Salford and how this can support your plans for the future.
A research degree offers you the chance to become an expert in the field that you are passionate about.
It also provides you with the opportunity to examine and investigate an innovative and novel area of research.
You will shape the future through innovation, whilst developing specialist skills that you can apply to the workplace.
Under the guidance of our supervisors, you’ll take full responsibility for your work and given the freedom to make your own contribution to your chosen subject area or research.
At the University of Salford we offer several research degrees:
The length and structure of a research degree depends on the pathway and course chosen.
Download our postgraduate research study guide to find out more about the different options available.
Our thriving research centres are based across our four academic schools.
Take a look at your area of interest below to find out more about our research culture, academic strengths and the opportunities available to you at Salford.
Our School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology attracts students from across the world, creating a vibrant and dynamic research environment, encouraging collaboration, interdisciplinary practice and international networking.
Salford is a great environment for Arts, Media and Creative Technology researchers as we engage with the real-world impacts of 21st century challenges, offer world-class performance and exhibition spaces in our New Adelphi building, and unite researchers, artists, designers, and other creative practitioners in the Salford International Innovation Studio at MediaCity.
Research areas
Get in touch
For more information about postgraduate research in Arts, Media and Creative Technology, email pgr-supportsam@salford.ac.uk or call +44 (0)161 295 7012 .
You can also follow the Arts, Media and Communication Research Centre on X .
Salford Business School inspires postgraduate researchers to be curious, think critically and challenge assumptions in ways that equip them with the personal and professional qualities valued by academic and industry employers alike.
We broadly align to the University’s overall Innovation Strategy, with an emphasis on business change, entrepreneurial thinking, FinTech, ethical and sustainable working and digital transformation.
Our Centre for Sustainable Innovation enables businesses to access cutting-edge research, expert guidance and a supportive environment in which to learn and collaborate.
Through our Business and Management Research Centre we want to encourage and develop the next generation of researchers who want to make a difference, bringing together disciplines, and challenging existing ways of thinking and viewing the world of business, organisations and beyond.
To find out more about postgraduate research in Business, Management and Law, email pgr-supportsbs@salford.ac.uk or call +44 (0)161 295 4148 .
Research in the fields of Health and Society at Salford is structured into three centres:
For more information about postgraduate research in Health and Society email pgr-supportshas@salford.ac.uk
Follow us on X .
By choosing SEE, you’ll be joining a large aspirational community of postgraduate researchers exploring topics across a suite of interdisciplinary research centres.
Whether you’ve been planning your research for a while, or you’ve found fresh perspectives during the pandemic, the University of Salford is ready to help start your research journey.
The School of Science, Engineering and Environment (SEE) brings together a variety of research fields:
If you have an enquiry about our research opportunities, email pgr-supportssee@salford.ac.uk or call +44 (0)161 295 3482 .
REF 2021
of research rated as world-leading
outstanding rating on five impact submissions
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF), Salford placed at 65th - an impressive 22 place jump up from 87.
Our results demonstrate the excellence of the research carried out at Salford, with 78% of our research being rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
Our 2021 REF results
Our Doctoral School brings our PhD students together and supports our vibrant community in which collaborative and interdisciplinary working can flourish.
What makes us so unique is not only the breadth and success of our research community, but also the students that we attract.
People join us from all over the world, at all stages in life, adding their life experiences and unique ways of approaching research to our collective knowledge and expertise.
Postgraduate researchers choose Salford to explore the research topics they’re passionate about.
They take advantage of the excellent training and support that is tailored to their individual needs and our development opportunities that enable them to fulfil their potential.
We also have a dedicated pastoral support service, askUS , to ensure all our students have access to the advice and guidance they need whenever they need it, whether it’s about finance, visas, or faith services.
Whilst studying a postgraduate research degree at Salford, you can access support every step of the way.
Not only will you be supported by a personal tutor who is also an academic, but most importantly you will be working with experienced supervisors who are publishing in the same area of research.
We have also developed COMPASS , our Community Model for Postgraduate Achievement, Skills and Future Success, which is an accessible, inclusive, and community-driven training programme tailored to the goals of our postgraduate research students.
It is designed to help you develop the professional and personal skills needed for effective research whilst also enhancing your future employability.
This is important whether you’re planning a career in academia or in the public or private sectors.
You can also participate in our annual research events:
Postgraduate research students who also attend international and UK conferences and are presenting a paper, poster or other form of presentation are eligible to apply for the Doctoral School Conference Fund.
Successful applicants can receive a contribution of up to £1000 for travel and accommodation.
For more information, email us at pgrsupportfund@salford.ac.uk
By studying at Salford, you will be joining a large community of research students across our different research centres .
All of our researchers have access to our dedicated Doctoral School which offers specialist student support and training to help you become the best researcher you can be.
Find out what life at Salford would be like.
Attracting the best students and research requires facilities that provide an enriching learning environment to bring ideas to...
We offer a range of discounts to our postgraduate research students including a 20% reduction if you’re a Salford graduate and choose to continue your studies with the University.
To help you with this, we've outlined important dates, the information we require, tips on constructing your proposals and the contact information for each school's admissions team in the link below.
If you would like more information on our postgraduate degrees, you are welcome to join us at any of our events.
We have a range of events throughout the year, from Open Days to campus tours, and Q&A sessions, so there’s always an opportunity to get your questions answered.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/collaborative-rd:
We use our expertise to work with partners to drive forward business innovation.
Our collaborative partnership approach is designed to address the frustrations that businesses face when they have innovative ideas but lack the internal expertise and/or funding to make it happen.
As a university, we are able to draw upon the expertise of over 1,000 leading specialists.
For projects that require a multi-disciplinary approach, we are able to involve academics from different fields to provide advice tailored exactly to the needs of the business.
Working with the university is a great way to drive innovation, with a range of options to suit every type of business and sector.
We are able to tailor our solutions to fit the needs of our partners.
Partner with our academics to deliver a step change in business process and...
Commissioning our academics to conduct new research on your behalf means that you benefit from bespoke new insights which can help...
Our in-house subject matter experts can work with companies to improve a business’ knowledge, insights and understanding of a...
The university also works with partners to develop collaborative grant applications.
This includes projects led by business to funders such as Innovate UK, as well as those led by the university to research councils.
Where the business leads the project, the university provides the latest academic insights to support a piece of wider innovation and development being driven by the business.
For projects led by the university, the business partner provides guidance and insights on the latest issues facing industry to help inform the research programme.
The University of Salford’s THINKlab has designed and developed UE4-powered 4D simulation tool which can help dramatically improve...
iKoustic and the University of Salford have successfully developed innovative acoustic insulation and soundproofing products with...
Ahead of upcoming firework festivities, Dogs Trust, the UK’s largest dog welfare charity has issued advice to owners on how to...
For more information on how we can support you and your business, please don’t hesitate to get in touch.
We can provide a bespoke presentation addressing the support we can offer to your business or an individual plan highlighting course areas or services that may be of interest.
innovation@salford.ac.uk
Grow your business
Develop your people
Access our graduates

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business:
We address complex issues collectively to drive innovation and growth
The University of Salford works with businesses, from SMEs through to public organisation, non-profits and large corporates to drive innovation and growth using the university’s world-class research, facilities and connections.
Our services support businesses on their journey, whether they are looking to develop a new product or service, become more productive and sustainable, scale up their activity or upskill their workforce.
The benefit of working with a university is our ability to draw upon knowledge from a vast range of sectors and disciplines to bring them together and provide companies with a specific business solution.
We can also act as an academic partner on collaborative projects, working with businesses to access the many funding streams available to companies.
We ensure that our research not only meets the highest academic standards but also translates into practical solutions that benefit society on a local and global scale.
The Business Innovation Services team deliver lasting economic growth for our partners through working collaboratively, whether...
We are dedicated to helping employers meet their recruitment needs.
Give your...
We understand the challenges you face in keeping your teams’ skills and knowledge up to date and able to respond quickly to...
Our world leading Acoustics Research Centre has helped the BBC understand more about how people perceive sound...
The Salford Lung Study was an innovative ‘real-world’ research project studying the safety and effectiveness...
When Siemens were designing and launching a new offshore electrical substation product, they faced two key...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business:
The Business Innovation Services team deliver lasting economic growth for our partners through working collaboratively, whether this is with SMEs to drive innovation, partnerships with large businesses for impactful research and development, or working closely with charities to influence positive change.
Our commitment to the businesses who we work with goes beyond collaboration; it is rooted in the strength of our relationships and the lasting impact of our hard work.
This dedication results in the development of long-term partnerships, with individuals and enterprises returning to work with us repeatedly.
Our work with business has seen us contribute significantly to Greater Manchester's transformation into a dynamic and diverse city region with a cultural economic landscape that is shaping the wider world.
We are proud of our long history of translating knowledge into applied solutions for a wide range of partners and are committed to supporting long-term economic development and growth regionally, nationally and across the world.
Regardless of a company’s size or problem, we are able to tailor our solutions to meet your needs.
We have a strong track record of working with startups and SMEs and so understand the unique challenges which these businesses face when looking to translate potential into meaningful and sustained growth.
Our collaborative partnership approach is...
The University of Salford is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities which can...
Salford’s research creates new and innovative technologies, designs, products and ideas that can be commercialised.
The University...
“Vector Homes has engaged in valuable activity with the Acoustics, Thermal and Energy House labs.
Quite simply, the support we have received has been invaluable to the growth of our business.”
Dr.
Liam Britnell, Chief Technology Officer and Founder at Vector Homes
For more information on how we can support you and your business, please don’t hesitate to get in touch with the Business Innovation Services Team.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/our-facilities-and-services:
The University of Salford is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities which can be used by companies to test and trial new products, as well as develop new ideas.
We also rent out spaces for companies to host events and conferences on our campus.
Explore the different sector pillars below to learn more about the vast array of facilities available for companies to use.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/develop-your-people:
We understand the challenges you face in keeping your teams’ skills and knowledge up to date and able to respond quickly to changes in the business environment.
We are dedicated to helping you build a future-ready workforce.
The university works closely with business of all sizes from micro-SMEs to large multi-nationals in the public, private and third sector.
We develop talent by co-creating and developing bespoke and specialist training as well as offering open training programmes and degree apprenticeships.
We can also work with you to provide quality assurance for your own professional development activities through our QCPD quality mark.
“Excellent, thought provoking and good tools for application.
Great for me as just at the start of the journey to support our organisation to begin a massive digital culture shift.” Mini MBA in Digital Innovation, offered by SPD
Apprenticeships are a fantastic way to attract and retain talent for your business, boost productivity and up-skill your workforce in a cost-effective way.
The university has a great track record in the design and delivery of degree apprenticeships, with our courses rated by Ofsted as ‘good’.
Your employees will be able to combine academic study at university with on-the-job training in the workplace, they’re also a great way to attract new talent to your business, enabling you to:
QCPD is a unique quality assurance mark for your continuing professional development activities.
We have a long tradition of engaging with increasingly diverse organisations who deliver a wide range of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) activities.
Our QCPD quality mark offers organisations the opportunity to have their training assessed through a rigorous quality assurance process.
CPD activity which meets the quality threshold can attach the university’s QCPD quality mark to it for marketing purposes.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/recruiting-students:
Give your business a unique opportunity to attract some of the North West's best students and graduates, and tap into the talent and skills that they can offer.
Employer Handshake vacancy promotion service reaches more than 70,000 University of Salford students and graduates.
Opportunities that can be promoted include:
Create an employer account or log in - Find out how to create an employer account .
Our Employer Advertising Policy for more information on the type of employers, vacancies and information that can be promoted, and information on employing international students.
All our fairs offer you the opportunity to start a recruitment journey with us, and to promote your graduate roles and internships to our high calibre candidates.
Engaging with representatives from the world of work inspires our students and provides them with insight and inspiration to help them develop their career ambitions.
For more information on how to engage with University of Salford students and graduates, please contact the Employer Liaison team business@salford.ac.uk .
Read our Terms & Conditions and Guidance notes for attending Careers Events at the University of Salford .
Careers Fairs play an important role in highlighting a whole range of employment opportunities.
They also provide a direct link to employers that are offering employment and seeking graduates.
We are currently planning for our 2025/26 Careers Fairs - the dates, locations and times, are listed below to find out more and book click on the Fair
These events will be aimed at students from all year groups looking for placements, summer jobs/internships, or course-related part-time work.
Also open to graduates.
The above costs include sandwiches and drinks for two.
If you are bringing additional colleagues there is a charge of £10 per person.
Placements, summer jobs/internships, graduate schemes, graduate level roles or course-related part-time work.
You can let us know on a booking form which students you want to meet; year groups, relevant courses etc.
we can then target advertisements to these students ahead of the fair.
A £500 + VAT sponsorship for the fair includes:
As well as organising careers fairs, the University of Salford has a free to use online jobs portal for employers, which gains more than 22,000 views each year.
Jobs can be added throughout the year, for part-time work, placements and graduate level vacancies, either local or nationwide.
Please contact the Employer Liaison Team for further information.
Commission the Unitemps on-campus recruitment agency to identify and recruit appropriate student and graduate candidates for you.
To enquire please telephone: +44 (0)161 295 0407 or email unitemps@salford.ac.uk or visit our Unitemps page.
Would you like to advertise a volunteering opportunity?
Are you based in the UK and a:
If so, please complete our Volunteering Opportunity Registration Form .
Volunteering opportunities can then be promoted through our Employer Handshake vacancy promotion service.
Read our Employer Advertising Policy for more information.
Please encourage any University of Salford students or graduates to follow the advice provided on our Application referees web page when identifying appropriate referees/reference providers.
If you want to confirm the study dates and qualifications of any of our students, you can make requests for information through the Higher Education Degree Datacheck (HEDD) service.
Any questions you have about this service should be directed to Prospects HEDD .
Employer Liaison Team The Library, Clifford Whitworth Building The University of Salford Salford Greater Manchester M5 4WT United Kingdom business@salford.ac.uk +44 (0)161 295 5000
Employer Liaison Team The Library, Clifford Whitworth Building The University of Salford Salford Greater Manchester M5 4WT United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing:
Whether your conference is in our facilities or an external venue, our experienced conference management staff can help you to manage your event.
From help with bid preparation right through to post-event evaluation, we can plan and manage your whole conference.
If you prefer to keep closely involved, we can work with you to provide as much help as you need, or what your budget allows.
Whether you need help marketing your event, assistance with delegate registration or a full management programme, you can leave things in our very capable hands.
We have a great range of buildings and an experienced delivery team.
During the university’s summer vacation period, which runs from July to early September, we have 2400 bedrooms available to hire.
Ideal for residential conferences, sporting events and summer schools, the facilities also include access to our leisure centre with its swimming pool, spa, sauna, gym, sports courts and climbing wall.
Contact Us

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities:
Our strategic investment in high quality, high profile facilities over the past decade fosters innovation and creativity and reflects Salford's focus on real world, people-centred research that supports the need of industry.
The Northern Engineering and Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) is a focal point of the University of Salford’s commitment...
The Leverhulme Trust Aural Diversity Doctoral Research Hub provides inter-disciplinary PhD and Masters training in the...
Co-Lab is a collaborative effort aimed at blending teaching, research, and technology to shape the future of education.
Sports and exercise students benefit from the use of our on-site six-court sports hall and 3G pitch.
In our clinical skills plinth rooms, students practice new skills in an equipped environment under the supervision of...
Our Digital Immersive Video Environment lets students train in and understand various settings they wouldn't usually access...
Where embracing change and collaboration leads to positive transformation.
Translation is an essential business tool for global communication.
It empowers businesses, making them more profitable and...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges:
Providing timely information, advice, and guidance (IAG) is hugely beneficial as students make important decisions about their future.
Find out about the ways in which we can support you to deliver IAG to your students and their key influencers.
If you have a specific request, please feel free to get in touch to discuss your ideas by completing our Request Activity Form or by emailing workwithus@salford.ac.uk .
We are here to offer our support, advice, and guidance to your students during their decision-making process by offering a range of activities and events.
We know how important it is for students to find out as much information as they can about their career options.
That’s why we...
We collaborate with schools and colleges across Greater Manchester to provide...
In this section you will find additional links and useful resources.
We're here to help you best support your students and their key influencers.
Our resource library contains all the latest...
In addition to our taster days, visit days, and specialised events for schools and colleges, we also run a number of Open Days throughout the year for college and sixth form students who may be considering studying with us.
Choosing the right university is a big decision – and one of the best ways of finding out what's right for you is by going to open...
Want to get in touch?
Find the best way to contact our team to answer any queries you may have.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd:
We have developed a Leadership and Management Courses portfolio which focuses on sharpening the specific aspects of a leader’s toolkit, such as strategy, shaping culture and leadership behaviours.
We offer an array of Director Level programmes that offer new and experienced directors the opportunity to develop their own CPD through bite-sized classes on the core competencies: Strategy, Leadership, Governance and Finance.
Our range of certified healthcare training programmes and conferences are aligned with the University of Salford's School of Health and Society to support your continued professional development.
Salford Professional Development’s Sepsis Conference took place on 31st July 2025 at Adelphi House, bringing together leading experts…
Salford Professional Development’s SEND Conference took place on 19 June 2025 at Adelphi House, drawing praise from attendees…
Directors do not only manage teams, but they must also lead with strategic vision, resilience and a deep understanding of…

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/partnerships:
The University of Salford enjoys a long-standing tradition of working in partnership to deliver its mission and meet the needs of the communities it serves.
We have forged links with organisations in the UK and across the world, working with experts and institutions to develop partnerships that enrich life, study and research opportunities for students and academics.
We have for a long time, recognised the value partners add to the delivery of core activities and strategic objectives.
We are committed to giving more people access to higher education.
We do this through working with partners to offer a range of courses where you can study locally with the option of continuing your studies at the university.
We always welcome discussions with potential new partners.
We are passionate about developing relationships in the UK and delivering internationalisation that provides a real step change for the institutions we work with and their wider communities.
We have many long-standing collaborative and academic partners all over the world, these are listed below.
Upon successful completion of one of our collaborative partner courses, students will receive a University of Salford award.
British University of Bahrain
Since 2018, we have held a franchise agreement with the British University of Bahrain for the delivery of undergraduate courses.
The courses include a built-in foundation year that allows students to have their degree attested by the Higher Education Council in Bahrain.
The courses have an option for students to transfer their studies to the UK at the end of their foundation year.
Please visit the British University of Bahrain's website for a list of available courses and start dates.
International Nursing College
Since 2023, our School of Health and Society have been working closely with the International Nursing College in Gazipur, Bangladesh in various ways.
We have a nomination partner agreement in place where qualified students from INC can come to Salford to study BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies (Top-up) or MSc Nursing.
A limited number of scholarships are also available for selected students.
Ethics Advanced Technology Limited (EATL) and EATL Innovation Hub
Through both the Data Science & AI Hub and the School of Health and Society, the University works with Ethics Advanced Technology Limited (EATL) and the EATL Innovation Hub.
An MOU provides the opportunity to work interdisciplinary across a wide range of technology-focused projects including: live projects for MSc Data Science; joint conferences; short course development, and other initiatives that use the benefits of data science and AI to build capacity and knowledge sharing.
The University and EATL have signed a nomination agreement to support a limited number of MSc Data Science students from Bangladesh with a limited number of part-scholarships.
Zhejiang Fashion Institute of Technology
Zhejiang Fashion Institute of Technology have a progression agreement in place allowing students who have completed a DipHE Fashion Design or DipHE Fashion Communication to apply to study on year two or year three of BA (Hons) Fashion Image and Styling or year three on BA (Hons) Fashion Design .
There is also an international exchange opportunity available.
Luxun Academy of Fine Arts
Since 2018, Luxun Academy of Fine Arts have had a progression agreement in place allowing students who have completed three years of study on BA (Hons) Digital Media Art to apply for a one-year top-up on BA (Hons) Digital Media Arts.
Tampere University of Applied Science
Tampere University of Applied Sciences are an Erasmus Partner.
Since 2017, they have also had a dual award agreement that allows students who have completed BSc (Hons) International Business to return to Tampere after they have graduated from the University of Salford to study additional modules that also allow them to graduate from Tampere.
To be eligible, students must have undertaken an accredited study abroad year with Tampere and also have the required number of ECTS credits.
École Supérieure des Technologies Industrielle Avancées
The University and École Supérieure des Technologies Industrielles Avancées (ESTIA) have maintained a partnership since 1987 when Salford was chosen as the site of the UK’s National Advanced Robotics Research Centre.
Today, the partnership has developed on the basis of a collaborative approach to both teaching and research; offering a unique opportunity for postgraduate students with an interest in engineering to learn from experts at two leading institutions in the areas of robotics, automation and systems engineering.
The partnership is open to all ESTIA students who are interested in pursuing MSc Robotics and Automation following their first Master’s at ESTIA (Master’s 1).
To find out more about the partnership, and how to apply, please contact Amélie Hacala, Admissions Officer via email: a.hacala@estia.fr .
Institute Polytechnique des Sciences Avancées
Since 2016, Institute Polytechnique des Sciences Avancees have offered a dual award where students from Institute Polytechnique des Sciences Avancees who have completed three years of their diploma d’ingenieur can apply to study MSc/PgDip/PgCert Autonomous Systems or MSc/PgDip/PgCert Aerospace Engineering .
Students who have completed four years of their diploma d’ingenieur can apply to study MSc Autonomous Systems or MSc Aerospace Engineering.
Digital Marketing Institute
Since 2017, the Digital Marketing Institute have had a franchise agreement in place to deliver MSc Digital Marketing over a number of intakes.
The last intake is July 2023.
Sentral College
Since 2015, Sentral College have had a franchise agreement in place to deliver BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance, BSc (Hons) Business and Management and BSc (Hons) Business Information Technology (recently changed to BSc (Hons) Digital Business) in September and January.
This is delivered at Sentral College.
Colombo School of Construction and Technology
Since 2011, Columbo School of Construction and Technology have had a franchise agreement in place to deliver BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying and BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management.
Since 2013, they have also had an agreement for off-campus delivery of MSc Quantity Surveying and MSc Project Management in Construction.
This programme is taught by our academics using the facilities at Columbo School of Construction and Technology.
Robert Kennedy College
Since 2009, Robert Kennedy College have had a franchise agreement in place to deliver a range of MSc courses with start dates in September, November, January, March, June and July.
These courses are delivered online and are available to applicants from around the world.
The courses are listed on Robert Kennedy College's website.
London College for Design and Fashion
Since 2018, London College for Design and Fashion have had a progression agreement in place allowing students who have completed a BTEC HND in Fashion and Textiles or HND in Graphic Design at London College for Design and Fashion to apply for entry onto year three of BA (Hons) Fashion Design or BA (Hons) Graphic Design .
Bury College
Since 2020, Bury College have had an articulation agreement in place allowing students who have completed their HNC Science qualification to enter a two-year top-up on BSc (Hons) Chemistry, BSc (Hons) Biology, BSc (Hons) Zoology and BSc (Hons) Human Biology and Infectious Diseases.
We also have a progression agreement in place, allowing students who have successfully completed HNC Digital Technologies at Bury College to progress onto Level 5 of the BSc (Hons) Games Design and Production at the University of Salford.
In September 2022, The University of Salford introduced an off campus delivery programme of level 4 BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing taught at Bury College.
These students can then go on to complete levels 5 and 6 of the BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing at the University of Salford.
Even though you’ll be spending most of your time studying at Bury college for the first year, there will be opportunities built into your time at college to visit our campus, as it’s really important that you feel part of our university and that you are aware of the outstanding facilities that are available to you as part of this relationship.
Health Education England
Since 2013, Health Education England have had a validation agreement in place allowing specialist registrars in geriatric or elderly medicine to study MSc Geriatric Medicine, gaining an award from the University of Salford.
Since 2019, two further programmes, MSc Vascular Surgery and MSc Urology, have been added to the agreement.
Hopwood Hall College
Since 2016, Hopwood Hall College have had a validation agreement in place allowing students to study FdSc Sports Coaching, delivered at Hopwood Hall College.
These students can then apply to the University of Salford to top this up to a BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching Analysis.
ICE Postgraduate Dental Institute & Hospital
Since 2018, ICE Postgraduate Dental Institute & Hospital have had a validation agreement in place allowing practitioners to study MSc Dental Implantology, awarded by the University of Salford.
Since 2019 and PG-Cert Non Surgical Facial Aesthetics, have been added to the agreement.
Joss Arnott
Since 2019, Joss Arnott Dance have had a collaborative agreement in place to co-deliver MA Dance: Performance and Professional Practices.
This programme is a professionally focussed course and has been co-designed with Joss Arnott Dance.
Manchester Online Learning
Since 2021, Manchester Online Learning (MOL) have had a validation agreement in place allowing students to study MSc Human Resource Management on a part time basis.
Salford City College
Since 2013, Salford City College have had validation and franchise agreements in place to deliver a range of programmes.
Validated programmes include FdA Graphic Design, FdA Media Production, BA (Hons) Media Production (top up), FdA Media Make-Up for Fashion, BA Hons Make Up Artistry (top up), FdSc Business & Management and a validated Module.
BSc (Hons) Psychology is a franchised programme, delivered at Salford City College for the first year of studies with year 2 and 3 being studied on the main campus of the University of Salford.
Even though the first year is studying at Salford City College, there will be opportunities built into your time to visit our campus.
We believe it’s really important that you feel part of our university and are aware of the great facilities that are available to you as part of this relationship.
Siemens
Since 2016, Siemens have had a collaborative agreement in place to jointly deliver a final year top -up for BEng (Hons) Control and Automation.
Walk The Plank
Since 2019, Walk the Plank have had a collaborative agreement to jointly deliver PG Cert Festival Production, in partnership with the University of Salford.
We offer a number of international exchange opportunities.
This enables our students to study from one semesters to an entire year at one of our partner institutions internationally.
If you an international agent and are interested in working with the University of Salford to recruit students on our behalf, please email salford-international@salford.ac.uk .
If you would like to visit us to discuss opportunities for collaboration, please fill in our visitor request form .
This should be completed at least 21 days before the date of your proposed visit.
This enables us to ensure that you will receive the maximum benefit during your time here.
If you have a general enquiry, please email academic-partnerships@salford.ac.uk .
Alternatively, you can call us on +44 (0)161 295 2220 .
Our phone line operating hours are 09:30-16:00, Monday to Friday.
If calling us outside of these times please leave a voicemail and we will get back to you as soon as possible.
We are proud supporters of the #WeAreInternational campaign, which is committed to ensuring that universities remain diverse, inclusive communities of international scholarship, open to students and staff from across the world.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs:
Welcome to the University of Salford’s jobs page where we offer you a wide variety of rewarding careers across a range of academic, technical and professional services roles.
Use our helpful guides to support with your application.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/open-days:
Our Open Days and events are designed to give you more information about courses and student life at the University of Salford.
We offer a range of events throughout the year, both on our campus and online.
Find out what's coming up soon.
There are regular opportunities throughout the year to meet us and talk about the courses we offer, including:
If you'd like to visit our campus outside of our Open Days, then you can book a campus tour.
This will include a tour of your chosen campus and a tour around the social areas of our first-year accommodation sites.
Take a look at our virtual tour.
Explore where you'll study, sleep and socialise, and learn more about the facilities available on our courses.
Open Days are the best way to learn more about our courses, speak to our lecturers and students, and ask us your questions about university life.
Our next Open Days take place on Saturday 4 October and Saturday 8 November.
You can book your place at these events now.
Interested in postgraduate study?
Register your interest in our next Postgraduate Open Day on Wednesday 26 November.
Explore our courses, meet us on campus, and learn more about postgraduate applications, fees and funding.
Can’t wait?
Get involved with our Postgraduate Discovery Month, a month-long series of on-campus and online events where you can find out more about applying, funding your studies, and student life at Salford.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/student-life:
Discover the perks of studying in a campus environment and find out what you can get involved with when you become a student here.
University life isn’t all about studying - it's also a great place to make lifelong friends and have fun!
From joining a club or society to meeting up with friends in Atmosphere bar and café, there are plenty of things to do outside of academia across our campuses.
Watch our video below for an overview of Salford Students' Union and get a taste for student life.
Once you register with us, you’ll automatically become a member of our Students’ Union .
The Students' Union (SU) is run by students for students, independently of the University, to help you love your time studying here.
From events and activities to clubs and societies, the SU has it all, and it’s a great way to meet people and make new friends.
They can also help you with any queries you have whilst studying here, from financial advice to wellbeing services and more.
askUS is our student support service, helping you love your time with us.
They provide help with anything outside of your studies, from money advice to wellbeing support and accommodation queries.
They're mainly based in University House, but there's also several other information points across campus.
Pop in to speak to someone or visit the askUS site for further information.
Take your pick from over 50 student-led societies to get involved with.
From dance to kayaking, debating to comedy, there's something for everyone; and even if you can't find what you're looking for, the SU can support you to start up your own.
Within the Students’ Union, you’ll also find Shock Radio - Manchester's biggest student radio station.
Similarly, over at our MediaCity campus, we have an industry standard news room where students regularly broadcast for Quays News.
Atmosphere bar is a central student hotspot and ideal meeting place for a post-lecture catchup with friends.
Serving a range of hot and cold food and drinks, the space has a large seating area with booths and even a pool table to keep you entertained day and night.
With weekly events such as the 'Out of this World Quiz', karaoke night and Sky/BT Sports screenings for those must-watch big games, there's lots to get involved with once you're a student here.
The café next door is an alcohol-free space open till 5pm for breakfast and lunch, and is the perfect place to grab a coffee with friends before your next study session.
We have three common rooms - two on our Peel Park campus (in University House and in our Peel Building) and also one in the Allerton Building on our Frederick Road campus.
These spaces are designed for studying, chilling with friends, eating lunch and relaxing before and after lectures.
They've been created with commuter students in mind, providing facilities (such as a microwave, kitchen space and charging points) for those without accommodation close by, but can be used by any students.
The common rooms also have a TV and games including a giant Connect Four.
Explore what life at University of Salford has to offer and how to make the most of your time here, as well as the support available during your time at uni (and beyond)!
Discover the vibrant city life of Manchester and Salford, from the beauty of the Quays to the hustle and bustle of Spinningfields...
As much as I loved being in Essex around everyone I knew, there wasn’t much left for me there.
I had this feeling inside of me...
Studying in Salford not only means you're a stone's throw away from Manchester city centre, but you're also in easy reach of a...
The academic year is divided into three terms known as trimesters.
Many of our students live close to campus, so commuting to university is often the easiest option for them.
If you choose to join...
Talking Salford is our official podcast where we celebrate the achievements and careers of our alumni after graduation.
Find one of the episodes below:
Team Salford unites all sports and physical activity at Salford, with the aim of making exercise accessible and fun for everyone.
So, whether you’re already playing in a team or have never even set foot in a gym, we can help to find the right sport for you.
Our Sports Centre offers fitness/ strength and conditioning rooms; a 25-metre swimming pool with spa and sauna; a multi-use six court sports hall; squash courts; a dance studio; health hub; floodlit 3G pitch and two grass pitches plus 30+ fitness classes per week including yoga, Zumba and Pilates.
In addition, our health club offers discounted massage treatments to help you recover after training sessions and relax after a hard days' work.
Clifford Whitworth Library is our main library, inspired by the historic Peel Park which runs alongside the building.
It's open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, offering group study spaces, quiet study areas, PCs, Macs and laptop loans.
Our dedicated library support staff also offer a range of study skills sessions.
There are a variety of Eat and Drink on Campus outlets across all our campuses; each with it's own unique offering.
Whether you're after a coffee-to-go, a quick snack or a main meal, our refectories and cafés serve a range of hot and cold food and drink.
You can enjoy dishes from across the world at Maxwell and Allerton restaurants, grab a snack at one of the convenience stores, or build your own sandwich at Chapman Deli Bar and Subway.
Across the road from Maxwell Building, you can choose from a variety of brunch dishes, pastries, cakes and barista-made drinks at The Old Fire Station .
The bakery and brewery is a great spot for catching up with friends or grabbing a bite between lectures.
Alternatively, down the road from Salford Crescent station is a McDonald's, so if you're feeling like stretching your legs, head there for a fast food treat (or you can order straight to your accommodation).
Our student stores, located in the heart of campus and also within our Allerton building, provide the daily living essentials for students.
The shop on Peel Park campus includes a bakery where you’ll find fresh sandwiches, pastries and pies every morning, and at lunch time, hot dogs and meal deals will give you another option for satisfying your hunger.
No matter what your religion is, the University Chaplaincy is open to all faiths and none, staff and students alike.
The Chaplaincy can offer a safe and confidential space to talk about any matter, providing spiritual help at times of need.
The Faith Centre is based on University Road behind Chapman Building, and is open Monday - Friday, 10:00 - 17:00, and Sunday 11:00 - 15:00 (swipe access only).
See more information about opening times and services available.
If you enjoy the outdoors, then you'll find Peel Park, conveniently located next to Peel Park Quarter student accommodation, is the perfect place for an afternoon walk or an early morning jog before your studies.
The park was opened in 1846 and was one of the first public parks in the country.
It has recently undergone a £1.6m refurbishment and features a play area, sports pitches and two sculptures which form part of the Irwell Sculpture Trail.
Discover accommodation at Salford
Explore Manchester and Salford Quays
Discover academic facilities

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/student-life/in-the-city:
Discover the vibrant city life of Manchester and Salford, from the beauty of the Quays to the hustle and bustle of Spinningfields, the Northern Quarter and beyond.
We're based in the heart of Greater Manchester and just 2km from Manchester city centre, so whether you want to explore the buzzing nightlife of Manchester's Northern Quarter, enjoy a cosy afternoon with friends on campus, or explore Manchester's amazing shopping scene: you can experience it all whilst studying with us.
Watch our video below and discover why our students love the balance between campus and city living.
You’ll be joining one of the largest student communities in Europe, with around 100,000 students across Greater Manchester.
It’s one of the most vibrant and diverse cities in the UK, with people from all backgrounds and countries coming here to live and study - and this is why you should join them.
In Manchester city centre, the Northern Quarter is home to some of the best independent vintage and boutique shops, while Manchester Arndale is the place to find all of your high street favourites.
Over at Salford Quays you'll find the Lowry Outlet Mall, including a Cadbury outlet store.
Looking for culture?
You’ll find it on our doorstep: Salford Museum and Art Gallery is situated on campus, and opened in 1850 as the UK’s first free public library.
In the city centre, you'll find an abundance of museums and art galleries to explore, including the National Football Museum.
Whether you're after sophisticated cocktails in Spinningfields, a fun and fabulous night out on Canal Street, or the chance to practice your putting skills at Junkyard Golf Club - you’ll find the nightlife here is second to none.
From quirky diners and cafes, to the famous 'Curry Mile' in Rusholme, you're spoilt for choice with where to eat in Manchester and Salford alike.
In the city centre, indoor market Mackie Mayor provides quality food and drink from local producers and brewers, whilst Manchester's Chinatown serves authentic Asian cuisine.
It's also the second largest Chinatown in the UK.
You’ll never be stuck for gigs in the city; we attract a variety of musicians from all around the world to our stages, and if that’s not enough, summer music festival Parklife is also right on our doorstep – so don’t forget to pack your wellies!
We hear time and time again from our students about what a diverse and friendly place Manchester really is, and that’s something we’re proud to admit.
So, if you come to study with us, rest assured: you’ll feel right at home in no time.
We're only a short walk away from Manchester city centre, taking approximately 20 minutes to reach Spinningfields on foot from our main campus, Peel Park.
Travelling in and out of Manchester couldn't be easier, and with 98 train stations in the Greater Manchester area, you'll always be well connected to the city no matter where you are.
We even have our own train station - Salford Crescent - right on campus, which can take you into the heart of Manchester in just 10 minutes.
The 50 bus is also free for students, meaning you can travel between our Peel Park or Frederick Road campuses and MediaCity for free with your student ID; perfect if you're wanting to explore the Quays.
With our campus at MediaCity, take advantage of free travel to the Quays and discover bars, restaurants and shops.
It's the perfect social hangout, with the tranquility of the Quays offering a peaceful alternative to the hustle and bustle of Manchester city centre - and the ideal location for your next Instagram shot.
Named after Salford alumnus LS Lowry, the venue's three theatre spaces are used to put on a range of shows throughout the year, including musicals, opera, ballet, comedy and music, as well as the University's summer graduation ceremonies.
Here you'll also find the Lowry Outlet Mall, with great bargains and discounts on high street brands (including a Cadbury chocolate shop).
The mall also houses a cinema and a variety of restaurants.
Discover restaurants such as the Botanist and Wagamama, as well as coffee shops and bars for a post-lecture treat.
Make sure you also visit Central Bay, the Quay's new waterfront foodie destination with 20 different independent kitchens.
Manchester's Chinatown is the second biggest in the UK and the third biggest in Europe, so if you're looking for authentic Asian cuisine, this is the place to go.
You'll find a range of Chinese, Thai, Japanese, Nepali, Vietnamese, Singaporean and Malaysian restaurants, as well as bakeries and shops selling everything from groceries to craft items.
Famous for its 'Curry Mile', Rusholme is a great place to find South Asian and Middle-Eastern take-aways, restaurants and world food markets, and is popular with students from local universities in Greater Manchester.
The Curry Mile is not quite a mile long, but has a large concentration of Indian eateries along the neon-lit stretch of Wilmslow Road; so if you're looking for this type of cuisine, you'll want to try it out!
Our Students' Union also host the International cafe, which provides a weekly gathering of peace, cohesion and cultural diversity.
Open to students from home and overseas, the fun activities range from quizzes to karaoke, or just a time to hang out and chat together.
It's a great way to meet new people and settle in to life in Salford and Manchester.
The Manchester International Festival runs every two years, bringing cutting-edge art with an international outlook across a range of artistic disciplines.
The festival takes place at a variety of venues within the city, from theatres and galleries to churches and car parks, and promises to bring an eclectic mix of dynamic, innovative and forward-thinking new work to the city.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/accommodation:
Living in student accommodation is a great way to get settled into university life, meet new people and immerse yourself in the student experience.
Whether you’re an undergraduate student coming to university for the first time, an international student, or a postgraduate student, we’ve got some great accommodation options to choose from.
How to book accommodation for September 2025
If you're joining us in September 2025, you can book your accommodation via the Campus Living Villages website for our partnered student halls, Peel Park Quarter and John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts .
Keep checking the Campus Living Villages website for the most up-to-date information on availability, as cancellations do happen, so rooms can become available.
Please note that the neither the University nor CLV can take room bookings over the phone.
If you're having any trouble with booking a room or your account, please contact Peel Park Quarter on ppq@clvuk.com or John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts on jlec@clvuk.com .
Check out the video below to see your options!
In partnership with Campus Living Villages (CLV), we offer two accommodation villages exclusively for University of Salford students: Peel Park Quarter and John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts .
New first year undergraduate students can live at either Peel Park Quarter or John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts.
Returning or postgraduate students can live at John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts.
Both villages are staffed 24/7 with secure key card/fob access.
They both offer free gyms, communal areas and study spaces.
Utility bills and wifi are included in the rent.
Both villages provide a safe, supportive and social environment where you can make new friends, join in with weekly events and activities, experience new things and feel part of our vibrant student community.
This village overlooks the beautiful Peel Park on our Peel Park campus, meaning you can be out of the door and into your lectures in a matter of minutes.
You’ll also be a stone’s throw away from other campus facilities, such as the student store, library, sports centre and Atmosphere Bar and Café.
There are a number of amenities included, such as a cinema room, gym, games room and social area.
Peel Park Quarter offers ensuite rooms grouped into flats of 4 - 10.
You will share a kitchen with your flat but have your own bathroom facilities.
This is the closest village to our Frederick Road and MediaCity campuses, so it's a great choice if you’re studying nursing, healthcare and media-related courses.
It's also just a short walk from our Peel Park campus, making it easy for you to get to the University, as well as Salford Shopping City, where you can do all of your grocery shopping.
John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts have a number of facilities available for you to use at your leisure, including a gym, reading room, common room and basketball courts.
The accommodation also features 24-hour security, free Wi-Fi and parking facilities.
John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts offer single rooms grouped into flats of two to four.
You will share a kitchen and bathroom with your flat, with complimentary bathroom cleans every two weeks.
" Peel Park Quarter became a home away from home.
The friends you meet, along with the staff, create a friendly village I felt safe in.
" - Niamh McDermott, BA (Hons) Broadcast Journalism
" There was never a dull moment at John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts as there were always activities for everyone to join!
The facilities and services are top notch" - Sharon Omondi, MSc International Business
As well as our partnered accommodation, there are loads of other options for University of Salford students, from purpose-built student accommodation, to house-shares and flats.
We have a wide range of purpose-built student accommodation across Salford and Manchester.
Many of these properties have similar facilities to our partnered accommodation, such as utility bills and Wi-Fi included in your rent, on-site gyms, social events, communal areas and study spaces.
For a full overview of your options, visit our looking for student accommodation webpage.
You may decide that living at home and commuting to University is the best option for you, and there are plenty of public transport links to help you get here and lots of great study spaces to work and relax on campus.
Check out our commuting page for more information.
Whether you’re a UK or an international student, studying at university is a big change in lifestyle.
There are plenty of reasons why moving to a new city and meeting new people can be one of the most exciting and also daunting times of your life, so we want to help you settle in as quickly as possible.
From taking part in Welcome Week activities, to joining societies and socialising with students in your accommodation or on your programme of study - there’s loads of ways to meet new people.
Remember, everyone else is in the same boat as you!
The University's student support service, askUS , is here to help you throughout your time at the University.
You can also speak to our dedicated Wellbeing team, should you have any concerns or queries as you settle in and adjust to life at Salford.
Browse our accommodation FAQs below to check if your query has already been answered.
If not, please contact us on enquiries@salford.ac.uk .
To book our partnered accommodation (Peel Park Quarter and John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts), you’ll need to pay a deposit of £200 -  you’ll have 48 hours to pay this in order to secure the room.
If you’re booking other accommodation, deposit details and amounts will vary, so it’s worth checking with the relevant provider.
The prices of each room vary depending on the room type, you can find out more information on the CLV website .
We have summarised the main differences between the room types below.
Peel Park Quarter
John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts
For domestic students our partnered accommodation is paid over four instalments.
International students will instead pay in two instalments:
For 51-week contracts, the payment schedules are the same, but each payment will be slightly larger.
The majority of undergraduate students choose the 42-week contract, which starts in September finishes at the end of the following June.
Some students prefer to stay throughout the year and choose a 51-week contract, which runs from September to the end of the following August.
If you're studying a Nursing course, we recommend you consider the 51-week contract.
If you register your interest in a room and we're able to allocate you one, we'll provide you with an individual room to book.
This means it won't be possible for you to self-select which flat you'll be in, or be able to guarantee who you'll be living with.
Lots of students can be nervous about making friends at university – but don’t worry – other students will be in the same boat as you, and there will be plenty of opportunities to meet people, for example during events run by our accommodation partners, as part of Welcome Week, your course, and clubs, societies and sports teams.
When you register your interest in a room at Peel Park Quarter or John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts, you'll be able to select a preference for a single-sex flat.
We cannot guarantee this, but we aim to meet as many preferences as possible when allocating rooms.
Other purpose-built student accommodation providers also offer single-sex flats.
Details are available on their websites, and we recommend you get in touch with providers directly if you have any questions.
Your choice of accommodation may be influenced if you have a health condition or a disability.
If you apply for a place at Campus Living Villages or another major accommodation provider, tell them in your application form so they can offer you a suitable room to suit your needs.
You can read further advice on our askUS page.
Our registration form for Peel Park Quarter and John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts will include an option to request an accessible or otherwise modified room.
You'll also be able to provide information on any disability or condition you may live with.
Don’t worry if your UCAS application indicates you wish to live at home – it’s no problem if you’ve changed your mind and are now considering student accommodation.
If you receive an offer to study at Salford, we'll still email you about registering for student accommodation, regardless of any preferences you put on UCAS.
If you are a care experienced or an estranged student, you may be eligible to apply for a Unite Scholarship which could cover the cost of your accommodation.
Contact our askUS team for more information by emailing specialistsupport@salford.ac.uk .
If you need your deposit delayed until after your first Student Loan payment, or are having trouble finding a guarantor for your accommodation, then please contact the team on specialistsupport@salford.ac.uk as we can help you with this.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/sports-centre:
On campus the University of Salford Sports Centre has 5 fitness suite rooms, a 25-metre pool, dance studio, 30+ fitness classes a week, 6 court sports hall, 2 squash courts, health hub, floodlit 3G pitch and 2 grass pitches.
Get active for less .
Get your heart pumping in the cardio room.
Improve fitness and physique in the resistance room.
Enjoy HIIT training in the functional training suite or work on specific muscle groups in our upper and lower body strength rooms.
Whatever your goals are, our friendly instructors will tailor a routine to suit.
A personal program is even free !
You can speak to a member of our team at reception and book in with one of our fitness instructors.
Enjoy a swim in our 25 metre, 5 lane, deck level swimming pool and soothe those aching muscles afterwards in the sauna and spa.
Would you or your children like to learn to swim?
Contact our swimming lessons provider fast lane .
We deliver a variety of group exercise classes for all abilities such as Zumba, Yoga, Pilates and Spinning to name a few, the fitness classes are a great way to stay fit and active throughout the year.
The sports centre has a six court sports hall, where you can book to play badminton, basketball, netball, futsal, 5-a-side, roller derby, or volleyball.
There are also two squash courts available for hire.
You can give us a call or speak to a member of our team at reception to book.
We are proud to introduce a brand new floodlit 3G pitch, suitable for football and rugby.
The 3G sits aside two grass football pitches down at David Lewis playing fields.
There are also on-site shower and changing rooms available to use before or after your session.
Working under the supervision of academic clinicians, our sport rehabilitation students deliver a whole range of treatments including sports massages and injury rehabilitation helping you get back to full fitness.
The clinic runs every Monday and Wednesday from the health hub in the sports centre during term time.
We are based on Peel Park Campus, at our sports centre we have 5 fitness suite rooms, a 25 metre pool, dance studio, 30+ fitness classes a week, six court sports hall, two squash courts, health hub, floodlit 3G pitch and two grass pitches.
Two long term members give their experiences.
Simon Povey
Organisational Development Learning Experience Designer
Sevim Yildiz
Wildlife and Practical conservation
Whether you’re new to using the gym or an old hand who wants to check up on your form, these videos will help you perform your exercises correctly and reduce your risk of injury.
We’ve also included some session ideas to help you get the most out of your workouts.
If you use our sports facilities regularly, a membership could save you money.
Read about our membership options to find out which will suit you best.
Direct debit - students, staff and corporate members can sign up via monthly direct debit Annual - pay for the year up front and get 12 months for the price of 11
The following activities are included:
*Casual day passes are available to students, university staff, University of Salford Alumni, and employees of University of Salford corporate partners only.
Prices from August 1st 2025
* Equipment Hire - Racket Hire is £2.00, Shuttlecock and Squash Balls are £1.00 each, and 2+ Rackets with Shuttlecocks and Squash Balls is £5.00
** Full swimming pool fee for up to 20 competent swimmers.
Extra swimmers or children's swimming incurs extra lifeguard fees.
Pool timetable opening times.
Last admission for all facilities is 30 minutes before closing.
Opening times are subject to change, and include booked sessions.
See the timetables for full availability.
Please read our Facility Rules and Customer Acceptable Behaviour Policy
In line with the University's Safeguarding Policy, please read the Sports Centre's Safeguarding Statement .
The Sports Centre provides a 25 metre, 5 lane, deck level swimming pool, with sauna and spa.
Summer Fitness Class Timetable - June 2025 This timetable is subject to change, dependent on popularity and staff availability...
In partnership with the School of Health and Society, we have launched a new Cardiac Rehabilitation Phase 4 service.
These are specialised group exercise sessions.
Patients will be referred from the Cardiac Rehab Phase 3 Programme at Salford Royal, and local GP services, and there will also be additional 1-1 sessions for staff who have been through cardiac rehabilitation (staff should contact their GP first for clearance to exercise).
Student Wellbeing Exercise Referral Our Student Wellbeing Exercise Referral service is delivered in partnership with our Student Experience and Support services; the Wellbeing Team and Respect Cultures and Behaviors Team , in addition to University of Salford Health Centre, our on Campus GP Service.
Students who access these student support services can be referred onto our 8 week exercise referral program, which includes weekly 1-1’s in the Sports Centre Gym with an Exercise Referral Instructor, with individualized gym programs, and access to All Inclusive Sports Centre membership for 8 weeks.
The aim of the exercise referral program is to improve the mental wellbeing of students through increased levels of physical activity, working closely with our student support services.
Students should speak to their Wellbeing Advisor or Case worker, or alternatively to their GP at the University of Salford Health Centre, to discuss referral onto the 8-week program.
Student Wellbeing Exercise Referral
Our Student Wellbeing Exercise Referral service is delivered in partnership with our Student Experience and Support services; the Wellbeing Team and Respect Cultures and Behaviors Team , in addition to University of Salford Health Centre, our on Campus GP Service.
The sports centre is located on the Peel Park Campus next to Peel Park Quarter, our full address is: Sports Centre The University of Salford Salford Greater Manchester M5 4WT United Kingdom
The sports centre is located on the Peel Park Campus next to Peel Park Quarter, our full address is:
Sports Centre The University of Salford Salford Greater Manchester M5 4WT United Kingdom
Have any enquiries?
Please get in touch with us, and we'll be happy to help.
+44 (0)161 295 5060 sportleisure-com@salford.ac.uk Follow us on social media Facebook X (formerly Twitter) Instagram

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/it-starts-in-salford:
Take a walk in Celeste’s shoes to see all the ways our research impacts moments in your daily life.
Our Energy House labs are accelerating the progress towards low carbon and net zero housing design.
We are committed to helping people to reduce their energy bills, through the development of new technology such as heat pumps and Thermocil , advising Government on ways to boost energy efficiency and providing consumers with simple and low-cost advice to reduce their heating bills and environmental impact, such as reducing boiler flow temperature and the impact of blinds and curtains.
We have been making the world sound better for over six decades through our acoustics expertise.
Our Energy House is accelerating progress towards net zero housing design and our experts are improving sustainability in the built environment.
Our experts in acoustics are dedicated to making the world sound safer for people, collaborating with key partners to develop safer sounds for electric vehicles - such as the development of a universal sound alert for electric scooters and working with Travis Perkins to develop a sound alert for forklift trucks .
We conduct collaborative research with partners such as the Dogs Trust , the UK’s largest dog welfare charity, to support families to take care of their canine friends.
Our research has offerred advice for owners in the run up to bonfire night and we have also released research that reveals if dogs like being cuddled .
Our research in prosthetics aims to develop cutting edge prosthetic devices that are suitable to individual needs, using the latest technology in sensing devices and artificial intelligence.
We are one of the UK's leading academic centres of Prosthetics and Orthotics excellence and our internationally acclaimed prosthetics and orthotics department also hosts the £6 million UK EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training .
Hearing differences impact at least 1.4 billion people globally.
Through collaborations with partners such as the BBC and other commercial organisations, we support people with hearing loss to continue to do the things they love, such as watching television or singing in a choir.
Our aural diversity research brings together a unique group of researchers with the aim of exploring what the world might sound like if we allow that everyone hears differently.
The economic landscape and subsequent cost of living crisis is having a disproportionate impact on lower-income households and regions.
Community Finance Solutions (CFS) is Salford's independent research and development unit specialising in financial inclusion and community finance .
Our mission is to promote access to ethical financial services for businesses and households by developing, piloting and researching cost-effective solutions for policy-makers practitioners and funders.
Our expertise in biomechanics helps us to empower partners and business to develop footwear products with demonstrable benefits, including footwear that allows chefs, surgeons, nurses, vets and other professionals to work in comfort while standing up for long periods .
Our collaborative research with Clarks has increased the understanding of children's feet and growth rate, leading to evidence-based product development for children aged 0 to 12.
We are preventing the spread of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) for better infection control and prevention.
AMR is where bacteria becomes resistant to antibiotics over time and with excessive use.
To fight AMR, the university has created SARN, the ‘Salford Antibiotic Resistance Network'.
SARN, which boasts a network of researchers across all scientific disciplines and aims to help end AMR.
Our research investigates the ethical, legal, social and cultural questions concerning technological change.
We are focused on making AI more understood, inclusive and safer for business and communities.
Our Centre for Research on Inclusive Society is establishing a Digital Society Research Group and we also have experts developing knowledge about online dating in the UK.
By empowering businesses with cutting-edge digital transformation, expert change management, and sustainable consultancy, we not only enhance their competitiveness but also contribute meaningfully to the community and environment around us.
Our Centre for Sustainable Innovation was established to foster sustainable growth for business.
Through our research , we influence policy changes to support veterans to access the benefits system.
Our benefits assessments and veterans report highlights the key challenges of the benefits assessments process, as well as reporting on good practice and how we can address inconsistent veteran experiences.
We are generating educational, social and cultural benefits for 16 to 18-year-old learners and their teachers across the UK by supporting changed content and methods of teaching of the English Literature A-Level.
Bringing together partners from local government, universities, NGOs and business, we promote the use of innovative, nature-based solutions across Greater Manchester and beyond to respond to the risks posed by climate change.
Our team of natural environment experts develop living walls, green roofs, urban farms and other green infrastructure to create urban spaces for people to enjoy.
Our researchers work in partnership with the NHS, other healthcare providers and organisations on a range of collaborative partnerships to support people experiencing mental health challenges.
We are shaping NHS provision for children experiencing acute mental health challenges, developing new creative therapy models for depression and improving mental health through green space .
Our research addresses a series of important global health challenges that limit mobility, are associated with pain, and can prevent people from living independently.
We have a strong focus on sport and exercise, encompassing research related to strength and conditioning, sports biomechanics and sport injury.
Serving as a hub for small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) looking to design, test and validate innovation in a rapidly growing area, our North of England Robotics Innovation Centrre (NERIC) offers companies a one-stop shop for developing and applying robotics and automation alongside other innovative digital technologies in their business.
At the heart of our University is an exceptional community of researchers who play a pivotal role in shaping the University’s reputation as a hub for transformative knowledge.
Our research shapes a world where productivity thrives, communities flourish creatively and innovatively, environments are sustainable, and living healthily is a shared aspiration.
We aim to address environmental challenges and ensure a sustainable future for generations to come by developing strategies to...
We enable communities to navigate challenges, adapt to change, and flourish...
We explore the mechanisms driving the success and wellbeing of individuals, organisations and society by drawing on our long...
We look to support a society where individuals can thrive in good health by exploring a wide range of issues linked to physical...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/student-life/student-support-services:
We want you to enjoy your time studying here, but we understand that there may be times when you need a little extra support.
Whether you need advice about accommodation, settling into student life, or just want a chat with our friendly Wellbeing team, we are here to help.
If you're a parent, carer or supporter of someone who has applied to study at Salford, we know you'll be keen to support them through this important transition.
Visit our student supporters page for guidance on supporting your student with their application journey all the way through to starting university.
askUS is at the core of our student support service, offering information and advice on matters such as finance, wellbeing and counselling, accommodation and more.
Once you’re a student here at Salford, if you have any worries, concerns, or need advice on a particular topic, askUS should be your first stop.
You’ll find them in University House, on Peel Park campus, which is also home to Salford Students’ Union, as well as on the third floor of our MediaCity campus.
Get in touch before you arrive
If you’re hoping to join Salford and think that getting some extra support would help you during your time here, we’d advise that you contact us as soon as possible.
The first step is arranging an appointment and the good news is that you don't need to wait until September for this - appointments are available throughout the summer.
We're here to guide you through each step and there’s so much we can do now to support you before your arrival.
If you are considering studying at Salford and are a veteran, or have a parent, carer, or a partner who are current or former UK Armed Forces personnel, you can read about the dedicated information and support available to you.
We’re aware that many of our students do not have the support of their families while at university and we know that this can create barriers to success.
At Salford, we have award-winning support in place for both care leavers and care experienced students (for example, if you have been in foster care or a residential unit) and for estranged students (students who have little, no, or a negative relationship with both parents).
We work nationally with organisations that offer advice about finance and applying for student loans, accommodation, and homelessness, offer emotional support, and work with your local authority or support worker to ensure your success at university.
For more information, take a look at our webpages for those who are care experienced or estranged .
You can access support through our Disability Inclusion Service.
Our advisers are here to help support you with any barriers you may face when accessing the campus, its facilities, your accommodation, or your studies.
We assist students with specific learning difficulties, long-term medical conditions, mental health difficulties, neurodivergent conditions, physical or sensory impairments, mobility difficulties or temporary injuries.
We can meet with you to discuss the expectations of your programme and the range of support that may be available.
You may also be eligible for support funded through Disabled Student Allowance (DSA), which we can discuss with you.
Find out more on our Disability Inclusion Service page.
There’s a lot to consider when it comes to managing your money, tuition fees, living costs or student loans and grants.
Our team can provide detailed information to help you understand what you’ll be entitled to pay, as well as what loans are available to support you.
If you need advice or information about money matters, find out more on our money advice page.
We understand that applying to university can be daunting for any student, but for those who are seeking asylum or have been granted refugee status, there are even greater challenges too.
As an Article 26 University, we can offer a limited number of Article 26 scholarships each year and can also provide specialist advice and guidance on how both sanctuary seekers and refugees can access University or choose to study at Salford.
For more information, visit our sanctuary seeking students page.
For those students who are pregnant or balancing family life alongside your studies, there are a wealth of services available to help you achieve your learning goals, including Busy Bees nursery located on our Frederick Road campus.
If you need additional support, find out more on our students with families page.
If you’re caring for someone whilst studying, we understand that balancing this alongside your studies can be very difficult.
We are the first university in the country to offer an individual Carer Support Plan that can be adapted to your needs.
We can also signpost you to local and national organisations that can provide practical and emotional support.
For more guidance, visit our support for carers page.
We know that it can sometimes be easier to discuss your problems and worries with someone who isn’t a family member, friend, or tutor.
Our Wellbeing Advisers can meet with you and assess any emotional or mental health support you may need, including transferring any current support you are receiving to local services or accessing counselling.
Find out more on our wellbeing and counselling support page.
We know that University can be a huge step from school or college and sometimes it may feel like you should know how to use journals straight away and how to reference your assignments.
At Salford, there are lots of support services available to help new students with their studies:
Each of the four academic schools at the University of Salford also has a dedicated support team of Student Progression Advisors (SPAs) .
SPAs are here to support your academic progression and engagement; while also helping you access the wellbeing support you may need.
Whether you're unsure where to turn or need specific guidance, SPAs are there to help you navigate your journey at university.
We’re not just on hand to provide support for your studies, we’re also here to help make the most of your skills and experience and prepare you for your future career.
Our dedicated Careers and Enterprise team can help you with your CV, learn how to best prepare for interviews, find jobs, internships and placements and develop your employability skills.
As well as offering 1:1 appointments and careers workshops, students can also attend the Careers Hub drop-in service for advice.
Once you’ve graduated, the support doesn’t stop there.
As a University of Salford alumni, you’ll have access to a range of online resources, services, and opportunities to help you move forward in achieving your longer-term career goals.
We can offer confidential 1:1 appointments, free access to LinkedIn learning tutorials, and even potential funding opportunities to support your start-up business or project.
Our Students’ Union support services are here throughout your time at university to offer impartial and non-judgemental advice and help when you need it.
From housing to health and wellbeing, mental health to academic appeals, the SU advice centre can help you seek support with a number of issues.
Rafiki is the Students’ Union’s peer support listening service.
If you’re experiencing any problems while studying here, you can talk to our student volunteers and will be signposted to the relevant support services on campus or externally who can help.
Support can mean different things to different people – and may be broader than you think.
Support is offered by lots of different teams across the University, from askUS to our Students’ Union, to our friendly security team, who are consistently recognised and accredited for their efforts in keeping everyone safe on campus.
Meet just a few of the people who are here to help by watching our advice and guidance video .
Contact-us - Student Contacts Once you're studying on campus, you can pop into University House to visit askUS in person, or contact the team directly: Via our askUS section Our students have also put together a series of blogs talking about their journey to university, which you may find useful before you arrive on campus to begin your studies with us.
Once you're studying on campus, you can pop into University House to visit askUS in person, or contact the team directly:
Our students have also put together a series of blogs talking about their journey to university, which you may find useful before you arrive on campus to begin your studies with us.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/contact-us/course-enquiries:
There are plenty of ways that you can get in touch with the team, get your questions answered and find out more information.
If you’re not a prospective student, teacher or careers advisor, please visit our general contact page for details of other key contacts within the University.
If you want to keep up to date with all things happening at Salford, complete the below form and tell us a bit more about yourself.
We’ll send you regular news updates, insights into university life from our students, invitations to our Open Days and a copy of our latest prospectus.
You can also use any of the below methods to contact us: Send us an email at enquiries@salford.ac.uk Pick up the phone and give us a call on +44 (0)161 295 4545 Our team are available to answer your questions Monday to Friday, from 10:00-16:00.
You can also use any of the below methods to contact us:
Our team are available to answer your questions Monday to Friday, from 10:00-16:00.
Follow us on social media and find out what studying at the University of Salford is really like from the students who are here now.
We regularly hand over our social accounts to our students so that you can get a glimpse into their day-to-day life.
You can find us on Instagram , TikTok , X , Facebook and YouTube !
Throughout the year we run Open Days, on campus and online, for prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students.
These events will give you a chance to find out more information, meet our staff and students, explore our campus and facilities and learn all about student life.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/travel:
No matter whether you're travelling to Salford by train, bus, bike, car, or plane, we have provided travel route information for you to explore before you set off on your journey.
The University of Salford is located across three campuses, Peel Park, Frederick Road and MediaCity.
Although we have multiple campuses, our central location and fantastic transport links connecting us with Manchester city centre and beyond, means that travelling here couldn't be easier.
University of Salford, 43 Crescent, Salford, M5 4WT
University of Salford, Frederick Road Campus, Broad Street, Salford, M6 6PU
University of Salford, MediaCity B4, Orange Tower, Salford Quays, M50 2HE
To stop you from getting lost, we've created this handy campus map for you to follow!
The Peel Park and Frederick Road campuses are within walking distance of each other, and you can find out how to navigate your way to both campuses below.
To help prepare your journey to campus, we've listed the current and upcoming works and how this might impact your travel and experience on campus
Salford Crescent station is located between the Peel Park and Frederick Road campuses.
Direct services run to and from Manchester Airport, Manchester Piccadilly and Victoria, as well as Blackpool, Bolton, Buxton, Blackburn, Southport, Preston, Lancaster, and Barrow-in-Furness.
Inter-city services normally use Manchester Piccadilly which is about a ten-minute train journey from Salford Crescent.
Don’t mistake Salford Central for Salford Crescent, otherwise, you’ll end up with a 20-minute walk ahead of you.
There are planned improvement works scheduled at Salford Crescent station.
This means the station will close for three weekends between March and September 2025.
Find out more on our travel updates page.
You can get on any of the following buses, which will take you to The Crescent (right outside the university front entrance for Peel Park): 8, 35, 36, 37, 38, 50, 67, 100, V1, V2.
For Frederick Road (Allerton, Mary Seacole, Brian Blatchford buildings), any of the above buses except the 67 and 100 will take you closer to this end of the campus.
You can get on any of the following buses, which will take you to The Crescent (right outside the university front entrance for Peel Park):
8, 35, 36, 37, 38, 50, 67, 100, V1, V2.
If you're coming in by bike, there are over 400 secure shelter bike spaces for students or staff accessed via your ID card and a 300 space Cycle Hub operated by Transport for Greater Manchester (TfGM) at Media City running on a membership model.
Additionally, there are docking stations for the yellow TfGM Starling Bank Bikes on and around our campuses.
These bikes can be located and hired via the Starling Bank Bike app .
If you're coming in by e-scooter, currently Lime run an E-Scooter hire scheme licenced by Salford City Council.
There are several dedicated parking locations in and around our campuses.
Scooters can be located and hired via the Lime App .
If you're travelling to us by car, spaces in our car parks are limited, so please do plan ahead of your visit.
For those who need access to electric vehicle charging points, we have a total of eight on campus and a public charging point outside Crescent House.
There are also several spaces reserved for state-registered blue badge holders in every car park.
You can pay for parking via the ParkUs system or using a pay and display machine.
Stay informed with the latest travel updates .
Manchester Airport is an international hub, connecting hundreds of countries across the world to the city.
The airport is 15 miles from the university, and there are regular, direct train services between the airport and Salford Crescent station, as well as Manchester Piccadilly.
The 43 and 103 buses link the airport and the city centre.
At Salford, we encourage colleagues, students and visitors to travel as sustainably as possible.
There are a number of ways in which you can reduce your environmental impact when travelling to any one of our university campuses, so we’ve put together some advice on sustainable travel methods to help you on your way.
We have worked with AccessAble, the leading provider of access information for all disabled people in the UK, since 2008 to provide trusted accessibility information about our campus.
All of our buildings are equipped with a Deaf Alerter radio-based fire alarm warning and a public address messaging system.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/accessibility-on-campus:
DisabledGo has also worked closely with the University in producing an assessment of our campus and facilities.
At times when construction work is taking place on campus, alternative routes and entrances to some buildings and facilities may be necessary.
Alternative entrances will be signposted.
You can now find your way around our whole campus with our free app, AccessAble Salford Uni.
Developed by in partnership with AccessAble, the app includes detailed accessibility information about lecture halls, cafés and bars, toilets and halls of residence.
The launch of the app continues our strong commitment to equality and inclusive design, so that our campus can be used by everyone.
Download the app:
There are a number of car parking spaces reserved for state-registered blue badge holders in every car park; the number of these spaces is different at each location.
For those travelling to here by train, Salford Crescent train station is on campus and access is by stairs or lift.
Our MediaCity campus is easily accessible by tram, and the journey takes approximately 15 minutes between Manchester Piccadilly and MediaCity.
For further information about disabled access, please see our information on AccessAble or contact the building manager of the building you wish to visit.
For study related queries, please see the askUS web pages for information on disability and learner support.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/privacy:
We work hard to ensure that you get the very best experience, whether you are a visitor, a student, a staff-member, alumni or partner, without having to worry if your information is safe.
Outlined below is how and why we collect, use, and share your personal information, and your rights in relation to that data.
We know that there’s lots of information here, but we want you to be fully informed – we hope the following sections will answer any questions you have but if not, please do get in touch with us.
The University of Salford is the 'Data Controller' of your personal data and is subject to the data protection legislation and to the Data Protection Act 2018.
We are registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) registration number Z469563X and our Data Protection Officer is Dannielle Gibbon.
We appreciate an individual’s right to privacy and in all situations we strive to achieve a balance between protecting that right and confirming that we have the correct information to ensure we can provide an exceptional experience for all.
Under the Data Protection Act 2018, a number of new principles mean that individuals have greater rights concerning their information and how it is used (see Data Subject Rights).
We have detailed an overview of these principles below and included the privacy statements for all groups of people who the University of Salford interact with.
The law on data protection sets out a number of different reasons for which an organisation may collect and process your personal data, including:
Public task
To ensure that we meet and carry out our role as an institute of higher education and provide our students with required level of service, we need to collect and process relevant personal data.
For example, when we record your academic results and validate with your previous further education provider.
Consent
In specific situations, we can collect and process your data with your consent.
For example, if you are a graduate and you tick a box to receive email enquiring if you wish to become a donor.
Contract
In certain circumstances, we need your personal data to comply with our contractual obligations.
For example, when you accept a place at the University we need to capture certain information in order to provide you with the place and service.
Legal compliance
If the law requires us to, we may need to collect and process your data.
For example, certain government departments need us to collect and pass on statistical data.
Legitimate interest
In specific situations, we require your data to pursue our legitimate interests in a way which might reasonably be expected as part of running the University which does not materially impact your rights, freedom or interests.
For example, after you graduate, we will send you email newsletters updating you on what is happening here at the University.
When collecting your personal data, we’ll always make clear which data is necessary in connection with a particular service.
Here are some examples of when we collect your information, for further details please take a look at the relevant privacy policy.
Under the Data Protection Act 2018, we are only permitted to collect the minimum amount of information needed to carry out a specific purpose, therefore depending on your relationship with us we collect different amounts of data.
Example, if you are making a decision about university choices and want some information sending to you, we would only take your name and contact details (address and email) but if you are joining us as a member of staff we would need more information, such as date of birth, gender, financial details.
If your relationship with us changes, we remove all unnecessary information that we hold on you.
The university has produced a retention schedule to ensure that we only retain details that enable us to perform our duties.
Different information is processed for different purposes, some of it is used to improve experience, such as cookies on the website and other information helps us track performance, comply with legislation or help keep you informed of what is happening here at the University of Salford.
Detailed information about how we use information for different purposes can be found in the relevant privacy policies, but here are some examples:
Data is retained for as long as it is required to perform its purpose, or for as long as is required by law.
At the end of that retention period, your data will either be deleted completely or anonymised, for example by aggregation with other data so that it can be used in a non-identifiable way for statistical analysis and business planning.
Sometimes we share your personal data with trusted third parties, in order to meet our contractual needs or to improve our services.
Here’s the policy we apply to those organisations to keep your data safe and protect your privacy:
Examples of the kind of third parties we work with are:
Whenever you have given us your consent to use your personal data, you have the right to change your mind at any time and withdraw that consent.
You have the right to stop the use of your personal data for direct marketing activity through all channels, or selected channels.
We must always comply with your request.
In cases where we are processing your personal data on the basis of our contract with you, public task or for a legitimate interest, you can ask us to stop for reasons connected to your individual situation.
We must then do so unless we believe we have an overriding reason to continue processing your personal data, if this is the case we will advise you of the reason.
Here are all our privacy statements, detailing how we collect and use your personal data depending on your relationship with the University of Salford.
If you have any questions regarding the statements please get in touch with the person/department listed in the relevant notice.
To protect the confidentiality of your information, we will ask you to verify your identity before proceeding with any request you make under a privacy notice.
If you have authorised a third party to submit a request on your behalf, we will ask them to prove they have your permission to act.
More information on how the University collects and uses personal information can be found in the Notification made to the ICO or in the relevant privacy notice.
The Data Protection Act 2018, building on previous data protection legislation, gives people the right to know what information is held about them and requires the university to ensure that personal information relating to living individuals is handled properly, held in confidence and is protected from inappropriate disclosure to third parties.
It provides a comprehensive and modern framework for data protection in the UK and will give people more control over use of their data, provide new rights to move or delete personal data and impose stronger sanctions for malpractice.
Everyone who collects and manages personal information at the University of Salford must do so in a way that complies with our Data Protection Policy , the six principles, and the new individual rights under the Data Protection Act 2018.
This section details the rights that every individual has in relation to their personal data that the University of Salford holds.
The Data Protection Act 2018 provides the following rights for individuals:
Your right of access to personal information
Under Article 15 of the Data Protection Act 2018, individuals have a right of access to their own personal data held by the university.
A request for all such information is called a Subject Access Request or SAR.
Under the Data Protection Act 2018 the individual is entitled to:
All the above must be returned to the requesting individual within one month and at no cost.
If you would like to exercise your right of access please submit a request using the SAR form .
If you wish to exercise any of your other rights then please email us at: foi@salford.ac.uk .
The university uses various cookies across the website to help navigate the website.
The university uses a mix of session, persistent and third-party cookies.
A cookie is a small text file that contains small amounts of information, often including a unique identifier, that is downloaded onto a computer or smartphone when you access a website – if your browser preferences allow it.
Cookies are created when you (using a browser) visit a website that uses cookies to keep track of the movements within the site, help you resume where you left off, remember your registered login, theme selection, preferences, and other customisation functions.
Please note that cookies can't harm your computer.
We don't store personally identifiable information in cookies we create, but we do use encrypted information gathered from them to help improve your experience of the site.
For example, they help us to identify and resolve errors, or to determine the most visited pages.
Session cookies are cookies that expire at the end of a browser session.
They allow users to be recognised within the website so that any changes or item or data selection is remembered from page to page.
The cookie is then automatically deleted when the user leaves the website.
Persistent cookies help websites remember user’s information and settings for when a user visits them in the future, thereby speeding up or enhancing a user’s experience of the services or functions offered.
When you visit our websites you may notice some cookies that aren't related to the university.
If you go on to a web page that contains embedded content, for example from YouTube, you may be sent cookies from these websites.
We don't control the setting of these cookies, so please check the third-party websites for more information about their cookies and how to manage them.
You can use your website browser to:
Select your chosen browser below for instructions and guidance on how to manage your cookies via your browser.
Please be aware that restricting cookies may impact on the functionality of our site.
If you use another browser, you can visit the browser developer website for guidance and instructions on managing cookies.
More information can be found on the ICO , About Cookies and All About Cookies websites.
How to get in touch with us
Advice and guidance on aspects of data protection within the University of Salford is available from the Information Governance Team, they can be contacted email at: foi@salford.ac.uk .
Our postal address is:
Data Protection Manager Legal and Governance Directorate Maxwell 5th Floor University of Salford M5 4WT
If you have a complaint
If you feel that your data has not been handled correctly, or you are unhappy with our response to any requests you have made to us regarding the use of your personal data, please get in touch with the contact listed in the relevant privacy notice.
If you wish to escalate any issue or complaint further contact:
Data Protection Manager Legal and Governance Directorate Maxwell 6th Floor University of Salford M5 4WT
Additionally, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO).
You can contact them by calling +44 (0)303 123 1113 or on the ICO website (note, we are not responsible for the content of external websites).
If you are based outside the UK, you have the right to lodge your complaint with the relevant data protection regulator in your country of residence.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/equity-diversity-and-inclusion:
To create an inspirational, inclusive learning and working environment, celebrating the diversity of our university community in our everyday conversations.
The principle of equity will underpin our EDI ambitions.
Equity means that we will treat people fairly and in accordance with their needs, celebrate difference, as well as working towards equity in outcomes for all colleagues and students.
The principle of equity will require us to take pro-active and nuanced approaches to ensure that colleagues and students, regardless of background, enjoy similar experiences and outcomes.
We recognise that inequities and discrimination are caused both by barriers created by institutional structures and individual attitudes, biases and prejudice.
Our ambition is to be a university where inclusivity is deliberately designed and embedded into all that we do, where every student and colleague feels like they matter and belong.
Our culture and institutional values will support an inspirational learning and working environment which empowers people to lead with creativity and innovation that advances equity for all.
We will be a university that dismantles those institutional structures and systems that lead to discrimination, removing barriers that stand in the way of achievement, and building our strengths in advancing equity.
It’s important that we start with inclusion and many of our strategic goals are around how we build an inclusive culture.
Our Equity Assurance Committee (EAC) leads the strategic direction for EDI at the university and reports to the Vice Chancellors Executive Team.
EAC oversees the activity of three task and finish groups:
The groups have been set up to deliver our four EDI priorities outlined in the Statement of Ambition.
Capture our stories and key data insights:
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Annual Report 2024
Download previous years reports:
The University of Salford has formally adopted the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance’s (IHRA) working definition on antisemitism.
The adoption was agreed at a meeting of Council on 11 December 2020, following consultation with Senate and the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Team (VCET).
Adopting the definition as guidance means that the university will have due regard to the IHRA definition as appropriate and take it into consideration when interpreting and understanding antisemitism if, and when, raised in the university context.
Our approach in relation to the IHRA definition does not affect the application of equality law and the rights it affords to members of our community or our commitment to provide an environment free from harassment and discrimination.
It also does not affect our legal obligations and the legal rights of our staff and students in relation to freedom of speech and expression, including the ability to discuss and question difficult and sensitive topics, views and opinions, provided that is done responsibly, with respect for others and within the law.
More about caring
More about disability
More about faith
More about gender
More about LGBTQ+
More about race
More about Report and Support
Most of us try to be inclusive and respect others.
So why is there still discrimination and unequal practice?
Why do people share stories of being treated differently and of structures and policies that create inequity and prevent them succeeding?
Why do we have an Award Gap where some students are less likely to stay with us or to graduate with a good degree?
We all have work to do to understand this better - and our part in it.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/legal-and-regulatory-information:
Links to help you find key documents explaining how the university and its services work.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/modern-slavery-statement:
This Modern Slavery Act 2015 Statement is for the financial year ending Wednesday 31 July 2024.
This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps that the University of Salford has taken during its financial year 2023/24, or will thereafter be taking, to ensure that no slavery or human trafficking is taking place within any part of its business or any of its supply chains.
This statement covers the University and its subsidiaries through which its activities are carried out and references to “we” and “us” are to be construed accordingly.
The University is incorporated by Royal Charter and is an exempt charity.
The University Council (our supreme governing body) is responsible for the management and administration of our revenue and property and for our business and strategic direction.
The University Senate (which reports to the University Council) is responsible for maintaining the academic quality and standards of our awards and the learning experience of our students.
The Vice-Chancellor is responsible for day-to-day leadership and management of our business and leads the development and delivery of our vision and strategy.
We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and to ensuring that no slavery or human trafficking is taking place in any part of our business or supply chains.
Work is underway on a stand-alone University policy to reflect our commitment and to embed appropriate processes and procedures into our operations.
We comply with all legislation and regulatory requirements in relation to slavery and human trafficking.
Everyone in our business is required to uphold the highest standards of integrity in their business activities and to comply with all applicable laws of the United Kingdom and other countries in which they are working.
We have approximately 25,000 students, 2,500 employees and operate from 3 campuses in Salford: Peel Park, Frederick Road and MediaCity.
We deliver higher education courses within the United Kingdom and overseas (this can be direct or through other educational establishments, such as universities and further education colleges, with whom we collaborate).
We also undertake research and enterprise activities.
We are organised into 4 schools (Health and Society; Science, Engineering and Environment; Arts, Media & Creative Technology and Business) with supporting professional directorates.
We procure a wide range of goods and services and maintain relationships with a network of representatives in the United Kingdom and overseas for the recruitment of students.
We aim to identify and only do business with suppliers and organisations whose values and standards match our own.
We expect all suppliers and organisations we do business with to adopt and enforce equivalent policies in their own operations and to encourage their own suppliers to do the same.
Were we to identify any concerns or areas for improvement we would in the first instance work with relevant suppliers, representatives and educational establishments to ensure they were satisfactorily addressed and would then monitor them to ensure continued compliance.
As a last resort, we would seek to terminate relationships with anyone who refused to take remedial action or who failed to share our policy of zero tolerance of slavery and human trafficking.
We have assessed our business areas and supply chains and consider the following of them to be the most likely to give rise to a risk of slavery or human trafficking:
Our centralised Procurement Team is responsible for approving all new suppliers and for issuing tenders for goods and services above a specified threshold.
The majority of transactional purchasing is devolved to individual departments which are required to comply with our purchasing policies and procedures.
We have continued to raise the awareness of these individual departments of the risk of slavery or human trafficking in the above business areas.
Our Academic Business Development Office, which works with colleagues in our schools, is responsible for all academic collaborations with educational establishments (both within and outside the UK) regarding the delivery of teaching.
Our Student Recruitment team is responsible for appointing and managing the representatives who recruit students for us.
A high proportion of representatives are based overseas.
Our Human Resources Team is responsible for recruiting all temporary and permanent staff and for supporting the management and development of staff.
One of our subsidiaries provides temporary and permanent work and internships for students, recent graduates and others both with the University and surrounding businesses.
We have robust recruitment processes in place and were the first university in the North West of England to sign up to the National Living Wage – an improved rate of pay scheme which exceeds the National Minimum Wage.
We comply fully with all applicable legislation (this includes limits on working hours).
We have a Whistle Blowing Policy which enables employees to raise concerns about any criminal offences or breaches of any legal obligations.
During this financial year, no concerns were raised about allegations of slavery or human trafficking under that Policy.
We also have a Dignity at Work and Study Procedure which provides clear steps for managers and staff to follow when addressing bullying, harassment and victimisation at work or study and explains how all staff are expected to proactively contribute to a culture of mutual respect in which everyone is treated with dignity.
University students struggling financially can be vulnerable to modern slavery.
As a result of the general economic conditions prevailing, growing numbers of students lack financial resources whilst at the University.
This may result in increased vulnerability to exploitation which may in turn result in modern slavery, for example in areas of forced sexual exploitation and county lines.
International students can be particularly vulnerable to modern slavery for three key reasons:
We do recognise that international student recruitment can be an area of high risk, and have taken measures such as close selection and management of our international recruitment agents, procedures for support regarding wellbeing and the banning of unpaid student internships.
The University has in place specific support for under 18 year old students, many of whom are international, as we recognise the potential vulnerability of this group of students.
This includes ensuring that each student has a guardian in place to support them during their studies in addition to them having regular one to one check in meetings with key staff at the University.
We ensure that these students have access to information about support available to them, especially during key times of year such as Christmas, when the University closes for a short time.
All students have access to a range of support whilst at university, which is promoted on various platforms throughout the year.
This includes Counselling and Wellbeing, askUS (housing, finances, general student queries) and our Respect, Culture and Behaviours team who manage the University’s Report and Support platform, where students can report a range of issues such as bullying and harassment, sexual harassment and hate crime.
Students with disabilities can also access support from the Disability and Inclusion Service.
The Students’ Union also offers a range of support for students including peer support through the Rafiki on-line chat service and housing advice.
We use existing framework agreements of regional higher education purchasing consortia (e.g.
North Western Universities Purchasing Consortium (of which we are a member) and North Eastern Universities Purchasing Consortium) for the purchase of certain types of goods and services.
We monitor the steps taken or being taken by those consortia with their panels of suppliers in respect of slavery and human trafficking.
New suppliers must be approved by our Procurement Team before purchases can be made from them and, as part of the approvals process, we introduced an additional check regarding the suppliers’ measures on slavery and human trafficking.
We also added evidence gathering questions to our in-house procedures for tenders and contracts.
Our Procurement Team continue to receive sector updates about modern slavery via purchasing consortia and forums to which they belong.
We have reviewed and will continue to review our existing suppliers in the areas we assess as being ‘at risk’ to check the steps they have taken and are taking to eliminate slavery and human trafficking from their business and supply chains.
No concerns have been identified during this financial year, but appropriate action will be taken to address any concerns we identify.
We pay to subscribe to the NETpositive Futures, a Supplier Engagement Tool which, amongst other things, enables us to meet our obligations on slavery and human trafficking.
Having access to relevant information about our suppliers via this Tool more fully informs our decisions about the suppliers we do business with.
Wherever legitimately permitted, staff are required to procure ethical and Fairtrade goods and services as set out in our Sustainable Procurement Policy Statement.
We have added an express obligation on slavery and human trafficking to our standard terms and conditions of purchase and our consultancy agreements and, where applicable, will also require suppliers to take similar steps in respect of the sub-contractors they use.
We use educational establishments (both within and outside the UK) to deliver our programmes (e.g.
as a franchisee).
We undertake due diligence on educational establishments before we do business with them and our template due diligence questionnaire has been expanded to ensure we gather information about their approach to slavery and human trafficking at an early stage, including during any site visits.
We have an express obligation on slavery and human trafficking in our template agreements with educational establishments and, where applicable, require educational establishments to take similar steps in respect of the sub- contractors they use.
Through periodic reviews, we take steps to ensure that the educational establishments are complying with their slavery and human trafficking obligations.
Appropriate action will be taken to address any concerns we identify.
We use representatives (both within and outside the UK) to recruit students for our programmes.
Our contracts with representatives expressly prohibit any slavery or human trafficking within their businesses and supply chains and we only enter into new contracts with individuals or organisations who have provided us with written declarations confirming that there is no slavery or human trafficking within their business or supply chains.
Through periodic reviews, we take steps to ensure that the representatives are complying with their slavery and human trafficking obligations.
We provide a training module on our online portal to give our staff an introduction to the risks of modern slavery and we have made completion of that module compulsory for staff who are working in risk areas.
Further information on Modern Slavery can be found at the UK legislation website.
Approved by Governance, Nominations and Ethics Committee, The University of Salford.
Signed by:
Claire Sproston, Chair of the Governance, Nominations and Ethics Committee
Date: 28 November 2024

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/student-and-academic-policies-and-procedures/complaints:
The Student Complaints Procedure is used to raise concerns about services provided by the University.
There are some issues that aren’t covered by the Procedure, including:
Concerns about decisions made by the Assessment Board about assessment or progress are covered by the Academic Appeals Procedure
Allegations of student misconduct are covered by the Academic Misconduct Procedure or the Student Misconduct Procedure
Complaints about admissions are covered by the Admissions Complaints Policy/Procedure .
If you are an employer of apprentices, complaints are covered by the Complaints Policy and Procedure for Employers of Apprentices .
You can obtain information about the procedure from the Quality Management Office by emailing complaints@salford.ac.uk .
You can also obtain independent advice and support from the Students’ Union Advice Centre by emailing advicecentre-ussu@salford.ac.uk or booking an appointment .
You must submit the complaint yourself.
We can only look at a complaint submitted by someone else if you give written permission for another person to do so.
You will need to complete a third party consent form and send this via email to complaints@salford.ac.uk or post it to the Quality Management Office.
You can submit a joint complaint with other students provided that the names of all students who are connected to the complaint are disclosed to the university and the case is conducted through a lead contact or spokesperson.
All students should complete the group complaint consent form .
You can’t submit a complaint anonymously.
If you are making a complaint the providers of the service or individuals have a right to know what is being complained about and by whom.
A copy of your complaint will therefore normally be provided to those who are the subject of the complaint.
We hope that most issues can be resolved at the first stage of our procedure.
You can raise your concerns by letter, e-mail or orally within 20 working days of the event or issues which you wish to complain about.
You may find it useful to complete the stage 1 student complaint form which guides you through the information we would need to look into your complaint, or you can write it in your own words.
Please provide as much information as you can, as well as providing any available supporting evidence, to enable us to understand you concerns.
You should raise your concerns with relevant staff either in your school, or in the relevant professional service department, depending on the issue.
If you are unsure who to speak to, please contact your school, the relevant department, or the Quality Management Office via complaints@salford.ac.uk .
The university will aim to review the issues you have raised within 15 working days.
If the stage 1 process fails to resolve your concerns, you can submit a stage 2 complaint using the stage 2 student complaint form .
It is important that you provide as much information as possible about your complaint and any supporting evidence.
It would also be helpful if you are able to explain any actions you would like to see arising from your complaint and why you did not agree with the stage 1 outcome.
Completed forms should be sent via email to complaints@salford.ac.uk .
You need to ensure that your complaint is received by the university within 10 working days of the response provided at stage 1.
Your complaint will be acknowledged by the Quality Management Office and if your complaint has been received in time and your concerns can be reviewed through the Student Complaints Procedure, it will be sent to the relevant school or service for investigation.
You will receive information about how we will investigate your complaint.
A written response will be sent to you, normally within 30 working days from the date the investigator is appointed.
If you have received the outcome of your stage 2 complaint and you are unhappy with the outcome, you can request a review of the outcome.
This is the final stage in the procedure.
The reasons or grounds on which you can seek further review are:
You will need to complete a stage 3 complaint form and send this via email to complaints@salford.ac.uk .
The timescale to submit your stage 3 complaint is 10 working days from the date the letter advising you of the stage 2 complaint.
When we receive your stage 3 complaint, the Director of Academic Quality (or nominee) will review your request to see if it meets of any of the valid grounds for further consideration.
If your request is valid, you will be invited to attend a complaint review panel to discuss your complaint.
If your request is not valid, we will write to you to explain why.
If you have followed every stage of the Complaints Procedure and you are not satisfied with the outcome, the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) which is the ombudsman for Higher Education may be able to undertake an independent review of your complaint.
You will need a letter from the University which states that you have completed the university’s internal complaints procedure.
Further information about the OIA’s scheme can be found on the OIA website.
The university has put a number of steps in place to support students during the current period of strike action.
If you have any concerns or questions, you should raise these in the first instance with your programme leader or school office.
If that does not resolve your concerns, we have a two stage complaints process in place to consider complaints arising from strike action .
Student hub
Contact askUS
askUS topics

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/student-life/term-dates:
For staff, detailed information on the term dates can be found on the Almanac hub page.
Find out more about Graduation .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/web-accessibility-statement:
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Salford main corporate website at www.salford.ac.uk.
This website is run by the University of Salford.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
The University of Salford currently serves websites hosted on frameworks and platforms that include:
The content of this document is limited to the main corporate website hosted on the Drupal CMS platform at https://www.salford.ac.uk and the University job application system .
The Web Team continue to work with other teams across the institution to provide further statements as appropriate to describe accessibility compliance across other platforms/frameworks.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use our website and we are continually working towards improving its accessibility.
We follow general principles of usability and universal design and endeavour to meet level 2 (AA) of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1.
The text should be clear and simple to understand.
You should be able to:
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format, please email webmaster@salford.ac.uk
If you cannot view the map on our 'find us' page call +44 (0)161 295 5000 for directions.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact webmaster@salford.ac.uk
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Salford is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The following aspects of our website do not currently meet the accessibility guidelines.
The University job application system does not fully meet the accessibility standards.
At present the University job application system is not compliant for the following reasons:
We are working with our supplier to address the issues.
We are also working replace this system and plan to decommission it during 2025.
We have improved the overall accessibility of our site by developing new navigation and search systems, and by reconfiguring the content of our home page.
We have identified further accessibility improvements - such as improving keyboard access to content presented in accordion structures and improving the accessibility of iframe content to screen reader users - which will be implemented and launched by February 2023.
We are currently carrying out an accessibility audit of our website, recording and addressing issues we find.
Once this audit is complete we will plan the next stage in improving our websites accessibility.
We are in the early stages of planning a program for staff to educate them on the importance of accessibility and what they can do to ensure the content they produce is accessible.
We are looking into the possibility of adding accessibility checks to our workflow to ensure new and updated content meets accessibility standards.
We plan to commission an audit by a 3rd party organisation to assess whether our site meets accessibility standards after we have addressed the known issues.
This website was last tested on 28th October 2022.
The test was carried out internally by the University of Salford Web Team within the Marketing, Recruitment and External Relations directorate.
Our test sample included:
This statement was prepared on 28 February 2020.
This statement was last reviewed on 31 July 2024.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply:
We want to make applying to study at the University of Salford as flexible and straightforward as possible.
On this page you can find out how to make an application to one of our undergraduate courses.
If you are an international student, you should also read how to apply from overseas .
We also have a separate page with information about applying for a postgraduate course.
If you want to start your course in September 2025, the UCAS Clearing process gives you another opportunity to apply, if you missed the original deadline, applied but don’t hold any offers, or changed your mind about what or where you want to study.
You can apply for a course through Clearing as soon as you have your exam results.
If you can't call right now, you can also request a call back or apply online .
Read our Clearing 2025 FAQs to learn more about Clearing, or search our Clearing courses today.
If you want to start an undergraduate course in September 2026, please read the information below.
The majority of our undergraduate applications are made via UCAS: your school or college should help you access this service, and will give you a buzzword which you will need in order to register.
You can also use this service if you’re applying independently, both in the UK and overseas.
When you apply to study a course at Salford via UCAS, you’ll be required to provide the institution codes.
Make sure that you enter the codes as below:
You’ll also be asked to pay a fee for your application.
Please refer to the UCAS website for more information about costs, and how you can pay for your application.
We accept a number of qualifications, from A/AS levels to BTEC awards, to the International Baccalaureate.
To find out more details about the qualifications we accept, take a look at our course pages and select the course you wish to apply for.
All applications should be made via the UCAS website, except for applications to:
If the above applies to you, please see the below information for other ways to apply.
Part-time applications are made directly to the University via our online application form .
For more information about our part-time undergraduate courses, please contact our Course Enquiries team on +44 (0)161 295 4545 .
Applications to the BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies (top-up) are made directly to the University via our online application form .
If you are applying for a CPD single module, please complete the appropriate application form below and send directly to the University*.
If you are funding your course yourself, please complete the relevant application form and send it to applications@salford.ac.uk Please note that we cannot accept postal applications, we can only process those received at this email address.
If workplace funded, you will also need to supply a letter from your Trust stating that they will be funding your study.
*Please note: you will be required to provide two references.
If you’re looking to apply for a Degree Apprenticeship programme, then you will need to visit our apprenticeship webpage and contact us via the online form.
Applications for apprenticeship programmes do not go through the traditional UCAS system – you will apply directly to the University via a separate application form.
In order to be eligible for a Degree Apprenticeship you must be employed full-time in a relevant role and your employer must be willing to support you through the programme.
All apprenticeship roles are listed on the GOV.UK website .
Applications for our International Foundation Year are made via our online application form .
Applications for our Pre-sessional English course are made via our online application form .
You've carefully considered the course you'd like to study and narrowed down your university choices, and now it's time to start writing your personal statement - but where do you start?
We've put together our top tips to help you get underway with writing your personal statement.
We're here to help support you and answer and queries you may have.
Get in touch with our friendly team by emailing enquiries@salford.ac.uk or phone +44 (0)161 295 4545 .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply:
On this page you can find out how to make an application to one of our postgraduate degrees.
We also have a separate page with information related to applying to an undergraduate course .
For the majority of our courses, you’ll need to complete our online application form .
If you have your supporting information ready, the form should take 20 minutes to complete.
If you don’t have these documents to hand you can save your application and come back to it later.
The application process is slightly different for a number of our courses.
Where this is the case, we’ve outlined the steps you need to follow below.
You will need to follow a different application process for MArch Architecture, MA Social Work and our single module courses.
Please select your course from the list below for more information.
If you need help with your application, please contact us on +44 (0)161 295 4545 or email your enquiry to:
If you are funding your course yourself, please complete the relevant application form and send it to applications@salford.ac.uk Please note that we cannot accept postal applications.
If you are applying for the Applied Social Work Practice CPD or single module, please complete our postgraduate application form and an agency sponsorship form , and send both of these to applications@salford.ac.uk
We welcome applications from students with alternative qualifications or significant relevant experience through our process of accreditation of prior experiential learning (APEL).
To apply via this route, please complete our APEL form and submit it with your application.
Postgraduate courses start at different points throughout the year.
For more information, please see individual course pages .
You should submit your application as soon as possible to secure your place.
Our postgraduate courses start at different points throughout the year, and the start dates are listed on our individual course pages .
Our postgraduate courses are in high demand and we run application windows for international students to apply.
Entry requirements differ according to the course you are interested in.
For more information, search our courses .
If you are an international student, you should check your country page for a list of the equivalent qualifications we accept from around the world and more information about English language requirements .
You will need to provide a number of supporting documents with your application.
These documents vary from course to course, but usually include:
See individual course pages for more information on any course-specific requirements we need as part of your application.
The earlier you supply these documents, the sooner we can process your application.
If you have not yet finished a course that relates to your application, please send us copies of your transcripts and certificates (once you have taken your exams) so we can update your admissions record.
Find a Course

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-funding:
Making the decision to study at university can be a big financial commitment, which is why it's important for you to learn about the fees you will need to pay as well as how to manage your money before you start your studies.
All full-time undergraduate degree courses at the University of Salford cost £9,535 per year for entry in September 2025 or January 2026 (if you're an international student this fee will be different, please refer to individual course pages for details).
The fees for UK part-time students will vary depending on the number of credits taken per year, and the fees for our DipHE or Top-up courses and the foundation year of a full degree may differ.
Please see the relevant course page for details.
All UK students are eligible to apply for a loan to cover the full amount of their tuition fees.
Your tuition fees are regulated by the UK government who confirmed a rise in tuition fees from £9,250 to £9,535 for UK students studying in England from 1 August 2025.
Your tuition fees may increase in your first and each subsequent year of your course to the maximum amount permitted by UK law or regulation for that academic year.
Tuition fee loans are provided by the Student Loans Company and applications are made to Student Finance England , Wales , Scotland or Northern Ireland as appropriate.
Student finance opens for applications in early spring each year, but the dates and deadlines differ depending on which country you live in, please use the links above to Student Finance England, Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland to check the application deadline dates relevant to you.
We would encourage you to apply for your student finance as soon as possible to ensure your finances are in place for the new academic year.
The repayment threshold and timescales can vary depending on when you took your loan out.
For students starting their degree from September 2025, the repayment threshold for tuition fee loans is set at £25,000.
This means that you will only start paying your loan back once you graduate and start earning over this amount.
For more information on repaying your loan, visit the UK government repaying your student loan page.
As the UK has now left the European Union, students from the EU pay the international fee rate.
These differ by course, so please see the relevant course page on our website for more details.
Irish nationals living in the UK and Ireland pay the UK fee rate.
If you're a student from outside the UK, you can find a handy guide to applying for student finance on the Student Room .
We also have more details on our fees and funding for international students .
If you have any queries about your eligibility for student finance, you should check this with the relevant funding body as appropriate.
We do not make decisions about eligibility for loans; the decision lies with the funding body directly.
The other major cost at university is living costs; this includes accommodation, utilities, travel, food, stationery and any course materials.
If there are costs associated with your particular course of study this will be outlined on our course finder pages.
To support with meeting these costs, you’re entitled to apply for a maintenance loan.
This is a means-tested loan and will take a number of factors into consideration, including:
There are other factors taken into account, but these are the major ones.
There is a handy calculator on the Student Finance website which you can use to check eligibility for student loans.
You apply for your maintenance loan at the same time as your tuition fee loan and it is paid directly into your bank account in three instalments.
The first instalment will be paid once your attendance at University has been confirmed – we use the date you collect your ID card as the confirmation of attendance and it can take three to five working days after this before the monies are released.
The government has announced its intention to increase the maintenance loan cap for the 2025/2026 academic year.
This will apply to all students who qualify for a maintenance loan, with the highest levels of support being paid to students on household incomes of £25,000 or less.
You can find out how much you will be eligible for on the UK Government Tuition fees and student support page.
If you're studying one of the following courses at pre-registration undergraduate or postgraduate level, you may also be eligible for the NHS Learning Support Fund, which provides supplementary funding:
Further details regarding the bursary can be found on the NHS Learning Support Fund page.
We're dedicated to helping our students get the most out of their time studying with us, which is why we have a number of financial support schemes in place including our Inspire Support Scheme.
See below for further information about the schemes that are available.
When you complete registration here on campus you'll automatically be given access to an Inspire account.
The scheme is open to all new undergraduate students joining a foundation year or year one of an undergraduate degree based at the university, and gives you £150 of credit to spend in a dedicated online store.
You'll be able to buy learning resources such as text books, electronics or stationery, to give you the best possible start to your studies here at the University of Salford.
This scheme will run annually, meaning you’ll receive £150 of credits each year of your undergraduate degree if based here on campus.
For students from low-income backgrounds and living in areas where participation in higher education is low, there will also be the opportunity to receive an additional £350 of credits, bringing the total to £500 each year (so long as both conditions still apply).
This additional amount is only available to undergraduate students paying home tuition fees; it will be based on your personal circumstances and will be assessed at the point of registering as a student here in September.
You will be reassessed at registration each year to determine the level of award for that academic year.
For further details on the scheme including terms and conditions, and to get an idea of what you can buy, visit the Inspire site .
You'll also be able to see the full terms and conditions and frequently asked questions .
Care leavers from the UK who are studying an undergraduate degree may be eligible for an annual bursary of £1,100.
This will be paid in two instalments of £550, the first in November and the second in April.
To find out more, including full eligibility, please see our care experienced student webpage , or contact our Course Enquiries team on +44 (0)161 295 4545 , or email enquiries@salford.ac.uk .
We are also university partners with the Unite Foundation, who have a scholarship that can provide up to three years of free accommodation whilst you’re at university.
You can find out how to apply via the This Is Us website .
If you’re successful you’ll get your accommodation without having to pay rent or bills for up to three years.
We offer a bursary of up to £1,100 per academic year progressed on to for undergraduate students from the UK that can demonstrate that they have no relationship with their parent(s), or a negative relationship with parent(s).
This bursary is split into two payments of £300 and £800 and is intended to assist with extra costs such as summer rent and bills.
Please see the eligibility criteria on our estranged students webpage .
A completed registration form and accepted evidence must be received and validated by our specialist advisers for payment to be made.
Retrospective payments for missed bursaries are unfortunately unable to be made.
To find out more, please contact us
Student carers from the UK who are studying an undergraduate degree and able to prove that they have caring responsibilities for a family member or friend with a disability/long term illness will be eligible to apply for an annual bursary of £550.
For more information, including full eligibility, please contact our team.
It is through the generosity of our alumni, friends and industry partners that we are able to provide a number of donor-funded scholarships and bursaries for University of Salford students who would otherwise find it challenging to fund their studies.
There are a range of scholarships and bursaries available , at a University-wide level, as well as specific to schools and subject areas, supporting talented students who may need additional financial aid to support their time at Salford.
The University of Salford is committed to widening access to higher education.
Find out more about our current and future access and participation agreements .
Some basic budgeting skills will be important for all students.
You’ll find a wealth of information on askUS to support with this, as well as information on how to manage your money .
We’ve also created a guide to living costs at Salford, too - so you won't be stuck for resources on this topic.
You can also read our blog posts for some advice on saving before starting uni and money-saving shopping tips from Salford students themselves, to get ahead of the game.
The Student Room is an excellent resource for applicants, covering information on a wide range of topics.
You'll also find that Money Saving Expert has dedicated information for students including money saving tips, budget planners and student bank accounts, as well as discounts and deals.
In order to help with the cost of studying at university, there is also other additional government support available to you depending on your circumstances.
If you’re a fulltime student with a dependent child(ren) or spouse, then you may be eligible to apply for one of the following government grants; Parents’ Learning Allowance , Childcare Grant , Adult Dependants' Grant .
These extra support payments are paid in addition to your other student finance and do not have to be paid back.
If you’re a student with a learning difficulty, health problem or disability, the Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) is available to help cover any study-related costs you may have.
This type of support and how much you’re able to get depends on your individual needs and can be made as a payment on its own or in addition to any other student finance you receive.
If you need support with your application for DSA, our Disability and Inclusion Service is on hand to help.
If you have any further questions about finance at University, contact our course enquiries team on +44 (0)161 295 4545 or email enquiries@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/changing-your-course:
Many students change courses for different reasons.
This decision may be because you're not happy with your current course, feel you've made the wrong decision or for other personal reasons.
The main thing is you need to work out if changing course is the right thing for you to do and what to do next.
We can help you do this by offering advice and guidance around issues such as:
There are some very useful pages for course changers on the Graduate Prospects website, which will help you think more deeply about the issues listed above.
If you are clear which course you want to switch onto within the University of Salford, please contact your School Office in the first instance who will be able to advise on the steps you need to take to arrange your course switch.
You can contact your School Office by email:
or you can call on +44 (0)161 295 5000 .
If you are thinking about changing course, or leaving the University before completing your course, you may be wondering about the potential impact on your career choices.
You are welcome to discuss this further with a Careers Consultant.
The discussion will be both confidential and impartial.
A Careers Consultant will listen to your ideas, and help you to feel more informed about considering career options as part of your decision to change course or not.
You can book a Careers appointment by calling Careers and Enterprise by booking an appointment online or calling +44 (0)161 295 5000 .
Please note: appointments with Careers & Enterprise are available for current students and graduates of the University of Salford only.
Please note that Careers and Enterprise cannot advise on the correct process to follow in order to leave or change your course.
Contact your School Office directly and they will be able to give you the most appropriate support and information.
If you have any questions regarding the implications of changing course on any Student Finance you receive, contact askUS by calling +44 (0)161 295 5000 or email askus@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/urgent-support:
If you are concerned about the immediate wellbeing and welfare for either yourself or a fellow student, then you can find the relevant support on concerns including violence, suicide and any other immediate risks to individuals.
If you're having suicidal thoughts, here is some information on how to look after yourself and talk to someone during this time.
Find out what you must do if you feel seriously at risk or are at immediate physical threat.
Find out what you should do if you are seriously hurt or unwell.
Find out information on what to do if you are worried that someone is at risk of harm and are concerned for their welfare.
Read information about what to do if you are concerned about a students' welfare and/or behaviour.
Read through our extensive list of emotional support available to our students including face-to-face and telephone helpline services.
Find out what support is available to you if you are a victim of bullying, harassment, sexual harassment, hate crime or discrimination.
Access free and confidential counselling through the Student CareFirst phone line - available 24 hours a day, seven days a week: +44 (0)800 970 1080.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus:
Here you can find links to IT support, as well as quick links to student log-ins like Blackboard or Study Goal (to check-in to class).
Looking for more specific information on a particular topic?
Why not check our askUS topic pages?
Our topic pages have more detailed information on a wide range of topics ranging from accommodation, money help, and specialist support services, to academic policies and procedures.
View our student support contacts

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/accommodation:
Here you'll find all the information to help settle you in.
An overview of the accommodation options for new and current students, the importance of reading your contract, and other essential information to help you find the right accommodation and avoid any issues.
Information specifically for new students about our partnered accommodation and other available options.
Your choice of accommodation may be influenced by ill health or disability.
Find out all the support and help that is available.
Congrats - you've found somewhere to live!
Find our tops tips for moving in to and living in your private rented accommodation.
For most students, time living in private-rented accommodation is fun and hassle-free.
But if you do run into difficulties with any aspect of your accommodation, we are here to help.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/careers:
We're here for you from start to finish and beyond!
Our team is passionate about helping University students explore career options, develop essential employability skills, start up their businesses and showcase their strengths to employers in the UK and abroad.
Read our Statement of Service
Email: careers@salford.ac.uk or Call: +44 (0)161 295 5000
Follow us on LinkedIn and Instagram .
Popular pages on the careers website
To discuss your CV, applications, interviews and careers advice
Find out what workshops are available online and on campus
Drop in to the Careers Hub for quick questions relating to anything careers
Get careers advice
We can support you to develop skills, gain experience and explore career options.
Don't miss our Careers Fairs - the ultimate opportunity to connect with employers and explore graduate opportunities.
Unleash your potential with a powerful CV.
It's your passport to showcase your...
A job interview is a formal meeting in which an applicant is asked questions to determine their suitability for a particular job.
Join our year-round live workshops and events to boost your knowledge or gain some business acumen and get closer to your career...
A part-time job is a great way to develop your employability skills and enhance your CV, as well as support yourself financially...
Find out about internships - work experience opportunities that students and graduates can access.
Discover a range of opportunities for graduates seeking employment.
Trimester 1 & 2: Monday to Friday 10:00-17:00
Trimester 3 & vacation periods: Monday to Friday 11:00-16:30
The best place to get Careers advice is at the Careers Hub.
Just walk in and one of our Skills Ambassadors will be happy to talk to you.
Our Ambassadors can recommend the most appropriate resources, workshops or appointments to meet your needs.
You can ask about our Library support and how to get help with research, writing academically, referencing, maths, numeracy and LinkedIn Learning.
We also travel around the University, meeting you where you are.
The Careers Hub also hosts experts from other University areas throughout the week.
The table below shows locations of our regular stalls across campus and in The Library, these are scheduled events starting in September 2025.
Other services that provide weekly drop ins at the Careers Hub are also detailed below.
Located on The Broadwalk, within the Lady Hale Building ( Campus Map ), our Careers Hub is fully accessible to students.
DisabledGo provides full details of our facilities.
AGCAS is the expert membership organisation for higher education student career development and graduate employment professionals.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/skills/it-and-digital/using-salford-systems:
Discover the systems used and IT essentials at the University of Salford.
Need help from our Digital IT team?
Find how to get help at the bottom of the page .
Popular pages on the Skills website
What is covered:
Formats:
When you sign in to your University account for the first time, you will be asked to register some additional information to ensure your account is kept safe.
It is important to set up multi-factor authentication for your account at the earliest opportunity.
Many IT services can be accessed via links within the Student Hub .
Access Wi-Fi on campus - How to access the internet via Wi-Fi on campus
Microsoft 365 - Your University Microsoft 365 account provides you with online apps such as OneDrive, Word, Excel and PowerPoint.
Sign in via office.com or via the Student Hub using your University email address and password.
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - You must set up your account with this second form of authentication to access Microsoft 365 and its tools, the Student Hub, the Student Portal and to be able to reset your password yourself.
Reset your password - Register for 'Self Service Password Reset' so that you can reset your password yourself via Microsoft 365.
This will reset your password for all University systems.
You can also unlock your account using this link.
Student Email - We send our emails to your University email account so check your Microsoft Outlook account regularly.
Blackboard Learn - The University's virtual learning environment (VLE).
You'll find resources for your course and modules, including lecture notes, your Reading Lists and assessment details.
Check In to my academic session - With the JISC Learning Analytics and the Study Goal App.
At your teaching sessions, you will be given a unique code to input into the Study Goal app to confirm your attendance.
It's one way the University monitors student engagement to target support to those students who are not engaging and who may need support, so you must not share the code with others.
You can also find ‘Check In…’ via the Student Hub and the Library App .
Microsoft Teams for online meetings - Your online learning, such as online lectures and seminars and one-to-one meetings with tutors, takes place in Microsoft Teams.
It is a communication and collaboration tool that offers messaging and chat, storing and sharing files, audio calls and online meetings.
It is ideal for group working with your peers.
Microsoft Copilot - Copilot is Microsoft’s conversational Generative AI assistant, and it is the University’s recommended Gen AI tool.
Sign in to it with your University email address for its enhanced data protection.
You can use Copilot in other browsers via https://copilot.cloud.microsoft .
LinkedIn Learning - High-quality online training for a wide range of courses.
Its 'Technology' category offers training for familiar tools such as Word and Excel and extends to more specialist software such as SPSS, AutoCAD and InDesign.
explore the wide range of courses to really give your skills and your CV a boost.
Start using LinkedIn Learning today to widen your range of skills and give your CV a boost.
Laptop loans - Find out how you can borrow laptops from the Library for 24 hours and longer.
AppsAnywhere - The new way to access applications that would traditionally be available in different computer suites, labs and teaching spaces across campus.
You are no longer limited to using a specific room to access a particular application.
Find AppsAnywhere on University PCs via its programs list or desktop icon and sign in to its portal to view the list of available apps.
Access our apps remotely – The Citrix Workspace service allows you to access most University applications using a remote application or browser from your own personal device – Windows and Macs.
We have lots of self-service information on the Service Portal if you are able to log in.
Please use the Service Portal wherever possible - it's the quickest and easiest way to receive help.
Use it to:
Where you don't have a University account or you've not been able to reset your account using the above information, you can contact Digital IT for IT help by phone and email.
Make sure to have the following information on hand (or include it in your email): your full name, your student ID number and your mobile phone number.
Not sure what your student ID number is?
You can find it in the registration emails you have received.
It is currently staffed Monday to Friday, 09:00-17:00 as we start a new academic year.
From 29 September 2025, it will be staffed 10:00-14:00.
You should arrive at least 30 minutes before the Tech Bar closes so you can be seen and your issues can be discussed.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/disability-inclusion-service:
Our Disability Inclusion Service works with you to ensure you have fair and equal access to your education.
All University of Salford students benefit from inclusive and accessible teaching, and you can read more about this in our Inclusive Support Statement .
For further adjustments such as exam arrangements and in-class support, our Disability Inclusion Service can work with you to create a Reasonable Adjustment Plan (RAP) .
If you are a current student, you will first need to fill out a registration form and submit medical evidence .
We will then contact you to arrange your support.
If you are a prospective student or a new student who hasn't completed our registration process yet, we encourage you to register as early as possible to get your support sorted before you begin your course.
Please fill out the prospective student registration form and we will be in touch.
Reasonable Adjustment Plans (RAP) can be put in place to ensure you have fair and equal access to your education.
A guide to what you can submit as medical evidence when registering with the Disability Inclusion Service and applying for funded support from Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA).
Read about all the different funding options we have available to support you during your studies.
Sometimes you may need additional help when you are studying or on campus.
We've outlined how we can help with emergency evacuation plans, other emergency situations and risk assessments on this page.
If you apply for a place at CLV or another major accommodation provider, tell them in your application form so they can offer you a suitable room if available.
Support is available for all international students who have a disability or health condition.
Employers are becoming increasingly more positive about employing disabled graduates.
We've compiled a list of resources to help you transition into a workplace environment.
You can easily contact us via askUS or get in contact with us directly to enquire about Reasonable Adjustment Plans, dyslexia assessments or any other support you’d like to know more about.
If you’re applying to study with us, you can tell us about your disability or learning difficulty via your UCAS form or at registration.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/support/faith:
The Faith Centre is currently open exclusively to students and staff, regardless of your beliefs.
We offer unique spaces for group worship, private prayer, personal reflection, social activities, pastoral support and relaxation.
The Faith Centre is currently open Monday to Friday from 08:30 to 21:30 and on weekends from 10:00 to 18:00.
Our facilities can only be accessed by staff and students using your University ID card.
We believe in providing a supportive context in which all students and staff of any belief system or religious, philosophical and cultural background can explore new ideas and experiences and engage critically with each other in a respectful learning environment.
Please get in touch with a Chaplain if you would like a chat - their contact information is below.
Further information about observing your Faith in the community can be found in our Local Faith Community Provision Guide .
You can find other sources of support via askUS .
Muslim Prayer Timetable
Guidance for Ramadan
Book a space in the Faith Centre
The Faith Centre is located on Peel Park campus right near accommodation.
The space has its own Chapel and a large Muslim Prayer Hall with Ablution facilities for men and women.
You can also find:
We also play host to events and activities for both faith and non-faith groups such as craft groups, societies, therapeutic counselling and mindfulness sessions.
Our Faith Centre offers a unique space in the University for all groups to build positive relationships, including if you:
We gratefully accept donations to support the activities of the Faith Centre.
Our Chaplains and support team are appointed to serve all members of the University, whatever your convictions or beliefs.
You can talk to a Chaplain about anything you like – we don’t just do religion – and all conversations are confidential.
You can find out more in our Confidentiality Statement .
You are welcome to drop in at any time during opening hours and you can always contact us on faithcentre@salford.ac.uk or by using our Chaplains’ listed email addresses and phone numbers.
The Chaplaincy offers you:
If you’d like to be a volunteer chaplain then we’d love to hear from you.
We’re keen to engage with communities that aren’t currently represented in our team as we develop services and offer students and staff a diverse and cohesive experience at the Faith Centre.
Please contact us at faithcentre@salford.ac.uk for more information.
Muslim Chaplain Email: r.musa@salford.ac.uk Office: FC114 (Faith Centre, First Floor)
Bio: I have worked extensively in both academic and support capacities in Further Education (F.E.), Higher Education (H.E.), and in various prison and hospital chaplaincies.
In addition to my role as a Chaplain, I also lecture for different departments here at Salford and at religious and educational institutes across the country and abroad.
As part of the chaplaincy team, we are all committed to helping and supporting all staff and students of any faith and no faith.
My role involves representing Islam within the University community, raising awareness of Muslim students and staff, and identifying and responding to their specific pastoral, cultural and spiritual needs.
My hobby is following the Premier League and I look forward to annual visits to the holy lands with my family.
I cherish being visited by any member of our University community over a cup of tea or coffee at my office.
Anglican/Church of England Chaplain Email: h.tomlinson3@salford.ac.uk Office: FC116 (Faith Centre, First Floor)
Bio: I was ordained priest in 2008 in the Manchester Diocese and have previously worked as a chaplain at the Christie Hospital.
I am part of North Manchester deanery ministry team.
When not working, I enjoy spending time with my family and friends, walking, gardening and occasionally strumming my guitar.
I am happy to listen, chat and offer spiritual support to students or staff members accompanied by a brew and a biscuit.
Jewish Chaplain Email e.simon2@salford.ac.uk Office: FC115 (Faith Centre, First Floor)
Bio: As part of the multi-faith team, I offer support to both students and staff.
Together with my family, I am also the local representative for Chabad on Campus international.
I love learning Torah and enjoy perfecting G-D’s beautiful world.
It is my pleasure to be of assistance, so please reach out to me via email or visit my office.
You are all very welcome to call in to say hello, do a Mitzvah or have a drink.
Roman Catholic Chaplain Email: a.m.g.matip@salford.ac.uk Office: FC116 (Faith Centre, First Floor)
Bio: I am a member of the Congregation of the Holy Spirit (also known as the Spiritans), a religious Order of the Catholic Church.
I am originally from Cameroon; My ordination as a priest was in Doula in Cameroon on 23 July 2021.
In the Roman Catholic Diocese of Salford, I am also Chaplain to the Portuguese community.
It is my pleasure to work in this office as Chaplain, to support and encourage students and staff in the living of their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.
I am available and happy to hear from you for masses, adoration, confession and listening to your needs.
You can reach me through my email address, and you are also welcome to visit, chat and have cup of tea or coffee.
We have various facilities across campus to meet the faith requirements of our University community.
The Faith Centre, quiet rooms and ablution rooms are currently open between 08:30-21:30, Monday to Friday.
These areas are for students and staff only, so you will need your ID card for entry.
All other buildings may have different opening hours.
We welcome all students and staff to use the faith spaces for faith-based activities.
While the rooms exist for all to use, only meeting rooms FC111, FC112, Multi-Faith room are bookable.
Please note that this is a shared resource and is available on a first request, first served basis and the rooms may be unavailable at the times that you would like to use them.
If you would like to book the Chaplaincy or Faith Centre for a faith-based activity please view our guidance on booking a space in the Faith Centre .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/immigration-and-visas/immigration-and-visa-services:
Information about immigration and visa services that we can offer to you.
If you are an international student already registered at the University and are applying for your Student Visa from within the UK you can use the ‘Check and send’ scheme.
This scheme ensures your Student Visa application and supporting documents are correct before being submitted to UKVI.
Please note: You must have your CAS before making a ‘Check and send’ request.
Using the ‘Check and send’ scheme makes the Student Visa application process much less stressful for you as the University can advise on your application.
The visa application fee and Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) do not change, but there is no fee from the University to use the scheme.
How do I apply for the Check and Send scheme?
If you have any questions about immigration or visas that have not been answered on our website, or you have a more complex immigration query, you can contact our team by email or telephone where we will help resolve your query or arrange an appointment for you.
askUS brings together a wide range of services designed to support you.
Whether you need help with your visa, to set up a student support plan or would like advice about how to get a part-time job, please let us know.
For visa renewals, finance matters or any other issues, you can contact askUS where our advisers will do their best to answer your query or direct you to the service that can help you best.
We receive a large variety of questions regarding Student Visas, some of which are quite similar.
We have therefore created some ‘Frequently Asked Questions’ to help you with your query.
Along with our other webpages, Home Office guidance and UKCISA , these should be used as your first source of information and should make it easier and faster for you to access the information you require.
You may find the answer to your query on our webpages or the frequently asked questions below.
However if you cannot find the answer to your query, please contact the Home Office Compliance team via email or telephone.
Q.
Can I register from outside the UK if I am unable to physically attend the University?
In order to formally join the University you need to attend International Check-In in person with your original documents and then complete online registration.
This is a strict requirement for the majority of programmes.
If you cannot attend the registration event we will discuss other options with you which may involve deferring your studies or taking an interruption of study.
In a very small number of cases where there is no attendance requirement at the University at the point of registration, we can review your individual circumstances and complete registration in your absence.
This facility is strictly controlled and is limited to split-site programmes, distance learning programmes or Postgraduate Research programmes for students on confirmed periods of data collection.
Please see here for more information about registration.
What is the engagement monitoring policy?
The University is required under Home Office Regulations to monitor and record all Student Visa holders’ engagement at the University.
The University of Salford therefore monitors your attendance at lectures electronically or via meetings with your academic supervisor if you are a research student.
Applying for a CAS for the same course
If you are a current student and your programme end date has changed, you may wish to extend your visa.
If this is the case you will require a new CAS number which can be applied for via Salford Advantage .
I have extended my programme, can I definitely get a new CAS to cover the extension?
If you get an academic extension to your studies, this does not automatically mean you can have a visa extension.
There are Home Office regulations governing Student Visa extensions that are subject to frequent change and are different from the University’s academic extension policy.
In addition, your School will need to confirm whether you require academic support during the extension period.
If academic support is not required, a new CAS cannot be issued.
We will look at each individual situation on its own merits to determine whether a CAS can be issued and the outcome will then be communicated to you.
If you are eligible for a new CAS, you may not be able to extend your visa from within the UK and may have to return home.
We will discuss this with you if that is the case..
Applying for a CAS for a new course
If you are a new student or are applying for a new course, your CAS will be produced by the CAS department in the Home Office Compliance Team.
They can be contacted at salford-cas@salford.ac.uk .
How do I make a Student Visa application from inside the UK?
If you are eligible to make an in-country Student Visa application, you can apply online at the Gov.uk Visas and Immigration website.
You must complete and submit the online form and pay all relevant fees for the application to be accepted.
You must then send your original supporting documents to UKVI within 15 working days for your application to be processed.
Once you have received your visa, we will need to see it and update your student record.
Please contact the Home Office Compliance Team to discuss this.
Can I go home and make my new or extended visa application from there?
You can return to your home country to make your visa application if you wish.
However, you will need to use a different application system – as you did when you first entered the UK.
Can the University help me to make my new visa application?
If you are an international student already registered at the University and are applying for your Student Visa from within the UK you can use the ‘Check and Send’ scheme .
This scheme ensures your Student Visa application and supporting documents are correct before being submitted to the Home Office.
We can advise you on filling-in the application form, correct any mistakes that might delay or create problems with your application.
This scheme is designed to reduce the risk of your application being refused and to take the stress out of the application process for you.
How long will it take to receive my new visa?
Whether you apply for your new visa individually or via the University’s ‘Check and Send’ scheme , the average processing time to receive your new visa is six - eight weeks (if you use the standard service).
Please note, this timeframe can increase significantly during August, September and October.
Can I extend my Student Visa to attend Graduation?
You cannot extend your Student Visa purely for Graduation purposes.
If your visa expires before your Graduation ceremony then you must return home and apply for a Standard Visitor Visa to return.
You will need a Graduation letter as part of your Standard Visitor Visa application.
If you would like to invite family members to attend Graduation with you, you will need to provide them with a letter to apply for their Standard Visitor Visa.
How do I apply for a Standard Visitor Visa to attend the Graduation Ceremony?
You can make an application for a Standard Visitor Visa though the Home Office website .
There are no strict financial requirements you need to meet for the Standard Visitor Visa but you must be able to show that you have sufficient personal funds to be able to support yourself for your trip.
It is advisable to use the Home Office Student Visa maintenance requirement(s) as a guide.
Please note: You must be outside of the UK to apply for this visa or your application will be refused.
This might have happened for a number of reasons.
There might be missing documents (for example bank statements), you might have submitted copies of certain documents instead of original versions or you may not have met all the Student Visa rules (for example the lack of necessary funds in your bank account for a period of 28 consecutive days).
If this happens, let us know and we will advise you on what you should do next.
It might be possible to ask for an administrative review on the decision, so please get in touch with us without delay.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/money:
Coming to university is a big financial commitment, and it is important to manage your money carefully.
The information below explains the costs of being at university and the financial support you can get.
If you can’t find the answers to your questions and are worried or struggling to manage your money, or you just need some guidance, you can contact our Money Advice and Funds Service using the contact details below.
Note: our advisers are not trained debt counsellors or benefits advisers so you may be signposted to an external agency who should be able to support you with the relevant advice.
There is a lot to consider when managing your money, from tuition fees and housing to food, course materials and your social life.
Student funding may seem like a lot when it lands in your bank account, but it is designed to last for one term of 12 to 13 weeks.
To make sure this money lasts, you will need to plan and budget.
Salford and Manchester are relatively budget-friendly areas to live, allowing you to enjoy some of the cheapest public transport costs in the UK as well as great offers on social activities and plenty of choice when it comes to filling your food cupboards.
While our budgeting and money management advice may be useful to you, if you are an international student then you may have restrictions on how many hours you can work, what sort of bank account you can open and more.
Salford is generally a safe place to study but students at any university need to be vigilant about being targeted by fraudsters.
Unfortunately, some criminals may attempt to target you for purposes of Money Fraud.
Find various advice if you are having any concerns involving financial debt.
Read our most frequently asked questions relating to finance.
Based on where in the UK you are from, you can apply for finance.
You may be able to claim welfare benefits if you are between 18 years old and retirement age, have UK nationality, ‘settled’, or ‘refugee’ status, or are an EU or EEA national (subject to other conditions that also apply).
If you need money advice or find yourself in financial difficulty, there are many organisations that offer free and independent advice.
The Salford Support Fund is used to assist UK students who are experiencing exceptional financial difficulties during the academic year and/or are considering leaving higher education because of financial problems.
The Fund was created to enable you to achieve your potential at university.
Salford Inspire is a fund that gives students from £150 per year of your undergraduate degree to spend in the Inspire online store.
The purpose of the International Support Fund is to help international students who are experiencing an unplanned and unpredictable expenditure or disruption to your source of finance for fee repayments and living costs that has arisen as a result of a significant and unexpected event that could not have been predicted in their financial planning (this includes the current COVID-19 pandemic).
The University of Salford deals with U.S.
federal loan (Title IV) funds.
Here you can find all the information about the application.
At the University of Salford, we put your fees back into building and maintaining our industry-standard facilities.
We also employ leading researchers to teach on our courses, helping you become an expert in your chosen field.
As a postgraduate research student, you will need to pay annual tuition fees.
These vary according to the programme you are studying.
There are a range of scholarships and discounts to postgraduate research students.
Find out more about the costs of studying here and explore the scholarships and financial support available.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campus/campus-safety:
Here at the university we pride ourselves on our students being able to study and socialise in a safe environment.
The safety of all staff is also of paramount importance in support of our students.
Our security team is on-site and available for assistance 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
If you need to raise an emergency alert, request first aid, or ask for help, you can do so using our SafeZone App .
The security team are based in the Maxwell Building and can be contacted on the following phone numbers:
Security Services is responsible for all types of security arrangements and the provision of expertise and advice which include:
If you are on campus and require first aid, you can request first aid using our SafeZone App .
If you have a less serious but still urgent health problem, you can call the National Health Service advice line on 111 or use 111 online .
If you’ve run out of your prescribed medicines, find out how to get an emergency prescription .
If you are seriously hurt or unwell, you can go to your nearest Accident and Emergency department, or call 999 to ask for an ambulance.
Salford Royal Hospital M6 8HD and Manchester Royal Infirmary M13 0HY both have Accident and Emergency departments.
As part of our ongoing support for our students and colleagues, we have introduced the use of a safety app called SafeZone.
SafeZone provides you with access to emergency or urgent assistance should you need it, the ability to request first aid, and report emergency incidents and concerns.
If you want to alert campus colleagues to your needs or the needs of other people.
Examples include:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/careers/support/school-based-support:
Each school has an Employability Hub connecting you to valuable opportunities like work placements, internships, and team projects.
Gain industry-specific skills and discover your ideal career path while making yourself a competitive candidate.
Contact the dedicated advisors in your school for personalised support, drop-in sessions, events and access to a range of employability activities.
Don't miss out on enhancing your academic knowledge through real-world experiences.
Get involved today!
Harry Hosker (Employability Advisor) and Jade Harniess (Placements and Employability Assistant).
Harry and Jade support students across SAMCT in work experience, placements and other forms of employability activity.
You can find out more about the available opportunities through Blackboard and student emails.
Contact us with any enquiries, to book a Teams call or find out the best time to chat in person.
Our employability hub at SBS supports both UG and PG students across all business disciplines and law.
Our drop-ins are in room 624, Maxwell Building at 14:00-16:00 Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and 10:00-12:00 Wednesday and Friday.
We host a range of events across the academic year.
This includes our Employability Week taking place in both trimester 1 and 2, where students can engage with industry partners through live presentations, speed networking, and interactive workshops.
Please email us or book an appointment with one of our advisors for any employability or placement related support.
Corinne Curley is the Employability Officer for the School of Health and Society, supporting undergraduate students across non-allied health programmes including Psychology, Sports Rehabilitation, Nutrition, Sports Science, Social Policy, Sociology, and Criminology.
Looking to boost your employability?
Visit our webpage to discover how you can access tailored one-to-one support, work-integrated learning opportunities, a range of employability-related events, and amazing resources to help you with your employability journey!
For more information or to arrange an appointment to discuss finding work experience or placement support you can email us at: HSS-Employability@salford.ac.uk or Book an appointment online here
As part of the employability offer, SEE offers a Year in Industry option within the majority of undergraduate programmes.
Industry collaboration is continued with programmes such as the HackCamp focused on computing students together with industry speakers from a variety of sectors.
In addition, The Maker Space offers students to develop skills by utilising equipment such as 3D printers, laser-cutting machines and electronic circuit boards for academic or personal projects.
Placement drop-ins are currently scheduled weekly during term-time at the new SEE building between 13:00-15:30 on Wednesdays.
Queries related to placements and employability can be sent to see-placements-industry@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/specialist-support:
We are committed to and strive for equality of opportunity for all of our students and staff and recognise and celebrate our diversity.
Find out more to see how we can support you.
We provide support for all students that have care experience, whether a care leaver or someone with care experience.
Find out more here about the emotional, financial, and accommodation related support on offer to you here, including bursaries.
All students are required to inform the University of any relevant conditional cautions, criminal convictions or pending charges/investigations during their time as a student of the University.
See our Applicant and Student Criminal Convictions Policy and Procedure and how to make a declaration.
We offer lots of support for students that are estranged.
This may be that you have no relationship with your parents, or that you have a negative relationship with them.
We offer emotional, financial, and accommodation related support, and we can help you with accessing Student Finance as a student that is estranged.
Find out all the information about the support we provide to students that are estranged here.
We’re proud to support ex-forces personnel in your transition from military to civilian life.
Read about the help that we can provide to develop and enhance your employable skills.
We are proud to have an active student body and staff who support the rights of our LGBTQIA+ community.
Whether you would like to explore a name change, learn about LGBTQIA support organisations and teams, or you would like to join our Trans and Non-Binary Group, you can  find out  more about the sources of support available here.
Mature students make up a large and important part of our University community.
We recognise the support you need maybe different to someone who has just left school or college and you can read about it here.
Applying and studying at university can be a challenge for any student, but for those who are seeking sanctuary, been granted refugee status in the UK, or are from another form of forced migrant background, there can be many legal and emotional challenges as well.
From emotional support with our dedicated support team to financial support through our Sanctuary Scholarship, all of the information on support you may need can be found here.
A carer is someone who provides unpaid care to a partner, child, relative, friend or neighbour who could not manage without this help because of frailty, physical or mental illness, addiction or disability.
We offer lots of support, including academic and financial support, to students with caring responsibilities.
Read about what support we can offer you here.
We recognise that students with families, or who are expecting, are likely to need additional support throughout their studies to ensure that they can make the most of their course, and you can read about the help that we offer here.
It can be difficult to balance your studies with other personal events, such as becoming a new parent.
Read all about the information and our policy on supporting students who are going to become parents, who have recently become parents, or whose partners are expectant or new parents.
We have a dedicated support team for students that are under the age of 18 years old at the university that can support you from application stage.
The support on offer includes 1-1 appointments with dedicated student advisers, and you can learn more about this here.
Additional Resources

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/unitemps/candidates:
Whether you’re looking to kick-start your career or just earn some additional income during your studies, Unitemps will find the role that’s right for you.
Working with you throughout your study, we will offer advice, prepare you for interviews and help manage your time sheets.
We offer both temporary and permanent roles that will boost your CV and provide valuable workplace experience.
Towards the end of your final year we will work with you to find a graduate role that matches your skills.
If you aren’t entirely sure what career path you want to take after graduation, Unitemps offers you the chance to try different jobs to help you decide what you want to do in the future.
There are a variety of opportunities available including marketing, events, administrative work, project based assignments and much more.
No matter what area of expertise you have we are confident we can find something that’s right for you.
Unitemps also work with the university careers department to ensure students and graduates are getting the best possible employment opportunities.
For international students who would like to work during term time, the team at Unitemps can help with visa enquiries and can advise on what opportunities would suit you.
We don’t just work with students, we are also looking for skilled people from the local community who are looking for work either with the university or within Greater Manchester.
Ruairi Coyle
"My experience with Unitemps has been nothing but positive.
I struggled for weeks to get anywhere with my job search.
I signed up on the Unitemps website and within a few days of sending my CV I was set up with an interview.
I was expertly prepped and secured my first Unitemps job thanks to the help, care and advice I had received.
I would highly recommend for any students or graduates to get in touch!"
Andrew Danjuma Dewan
"Unitemps has offered me a tremendous opportunity to invigilate examinations in the various schools of the University of Salford.
This will greatly help me when I resume work at my University in Nigeria after my studies to implement some of the ways invigilations are conducted here at Salford, which I have found perfect.
Thank you Unitemps!"
Alsa Tabatabaei
"Looking for part time jobs can be frustrating but once you register with Unitemps you will benefit from greater flexibility, less stress and regular income, which altogether makes part-time job searching a delightful experience."

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/wellbeing-and-counselling:
Your wellbeing is just as important as the academic side of university life.
Wellbeing & Counselling are here to help you succeed in your studies and in your life by giving tips for taking care of yourself, teaching you ways of managing your wellbeing and providing information on how to look out for your peers too.
If you’re considering studying with us, you can find more relevant information on Information for prospective and new students .
As well as being a great source of tips for general wellbeing and issues you may be facing, Wellbeing Advisers are here to offer advice on anything that is causing you considerable stress, distress or concern.
Counselling can provide you with an opportunity to talk through your problems in a confidential setting, with a counsellor who has the professional skills and experience to help you work through your problems.
Talking with a counsellor allows you to explore your problem, help you gain clarity on your situation and developing a deeper understanding of yourself.
Access free and confidential counselling through the HealthHero phone line - available 24 hours a day, seven days a week: +44 (0)800 970 1080.
Whatever issue you are facing, we want to help.
If you’re unsure whether you wish to speak with us, there are a range of self-help resources which may help you gain clarity on your situation and decide what to do next.
If you’re looking for help outside of university, the NHS offer a comprehensive mental health service that allows you to access urgent support and provides information on anxiety & stress and specific mental health conditions.
They also provide self-help resources and advice on all forms of treatment for mental health conditions.
If you have any worries about your mental health before starting your course, we can explore a range of different support options with you, such as positive coping techniques, therapeutic options and more.
We can also help support you with transferring your mental health care provider to the Greater Manchester area.
We also welcome any queries from prospective students or staff from sixth form or colleges about how we may be able to support their students.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/registration:
This information is about registration for returning students.
If you are a new student, visit the Welcome registration page .
You will receive an email when you need to register.
For specific dates concerning your intake please see further information below.
Registration provides us with key data to help us ensure we have your up-to-date details and to confirm you are studying this academic year.
Registering means you will maintain full access to your IT and library accounts, including your student email account, Office 365, Blackboard, Advantage, printing and building access (if applicable).
You must register as a student every year , even if you are a distance learner or will be based at a partner institution.
Registration also applies to you if you are on placement, away on data collection, retaking a year or returning from an interruption of study.
We will email you when registration opens with a link to the online portal and your registration portal login details.
This email will be sent approximately four to six weeks before your course recommences.
To complete registration you will need to:
Note: We offer programmes in collaboration with a number of partner institutions across the world and, as such, registration processes may vary.
If you are unsure about registration and whether the process differs for you, please contact your home institution in the first instance.
You will receive an email to both your personal and student email accounts when you are eligible to register.
You must register once per academic year, based on when your course started.
For example, if you started your course in September 2023 or 2024, you need to re-register before the start of Trimester 1 in September 2025.
You should aim to register before your course resumes, but you must register by the end of Week 2.
If you don't meet the deadline, you will need approval from your school to register and risk being withdrawn from your course.
There may be some courses that do not have the same programme start date as listed above, we will confirm in your registration email your course start date.
Please contact your School Office if you have specific questions about your deadline to register.
If, for any reason, you feel you will be unable to register on time, you should contact your School Office or Research Administrator as soon as possible for advice.
You will only be able to re-register if you have passed your previous year's study.
If you may face a delay in registering, you should contact your school office (for taught programmes) or contact your research administrator (for research programmes) as soon as possible to advise you.
Note: there may be a delay in getting your record ready if you are awaiting the results of an exam board.
You should contact your School Office if you are concerned.
We recommend registering much earlier than this date to ensure you have plenty of time left to receive any assistance you need.
You may also need to re-register with your institution – they will send you information about this.
Please register as soon as you can.
See registration deadlines for each intake above.
There may be some courses that do not have the same program start date as listed above.
We will confirm your course start date in your registration email.
Please contact your School Office if you have specific questions about your registration deadline.
You may not have received a registration email for a few reasons.
It could be:
Please fill out this form to let us know that you’ve not received an email and we can advise you on the next steps.
You’ll find a video guide to the registration process under these questions.
If you need someone to help you register, please contact the Registration team as soon as possible:
Please reach out to askUS for any support you need with your mental, financial, physical or spiritual wellbeing.
You can contact askUS by your preferred method, whether that's email, live chat, phone or visiting in-person.
Our team will provide you with an understanding of the support available and the different options you have.
Have this conversation sooner rather than later so we can get you the support you need as soon as possible.
You can also use our self-service information on our Wellbeing and Counselling pages or find immediate support on our Urgent Problems page .
You'll need to let us know if you want to take a break/pause (interrupt) from your studies or withdraw.
First, read through the information on our Interruptions, Transfers and Withdrawals page, then advise us what you'd like to do through the self-service portal linked on that page.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/student-terms-and-conditions:
These terms and conditions apply to all students who are studying taught or research programmes with us and set out the provisions that are central to our relationship with you.
You need to read this important information carefully prior to accepting your offer and ensure that you understand its contents.
When we confirm your acceptance of an offer of a place on a programme at the university, a contract is formed between you and the university based on the information set out in your offer letter and the information set out in the list of documents noted below:
2025 - 26 documents
2024 - 25 documents
2023 - 24 documents
2022 - 23 documents
2021 - 22 documents
2020 - 21 documents
2019 - 20 documents
2018 - 19 documents
2017 - 18 documents
Useful links
Please get in touch with us at askus@salford.ac.uk if you are unsure about anything provided in your terms and conditions and wish to discuss further before applying or registering with us.
We can also help if you have difficulty in accessing these documents, experience broken web links or would like these documents provided in any other format for ease of accessibility.
You have a statutory right to cancel your pre-enrolment contract with the university (without giving any reason) within a 14 day period, starting on the day after you accept your offer.
Section 6 of the terms and conditions provides further information.
In line with the requirements of the Office for Students’ Regulatory Framework, we have published a Student Protection Plan which outlines the measures in place within the university to protect the interests of both prospective and current students.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/declaring-criminal-convictions-and-ongoing-police-investigations:
During the academic year, you can tell us about a new conviction, caution or investigation by using our Criminal Convictions & Current Police Investigation Disclosure form at any time.
Salford is committed to increasing social mobility through education, so we don’t see criminal convictions as a barrier to studying with us and we believe in the importance of a second chance.
This is set out in law in the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act.
We also have a duty to ensure that our university is a safe environment for everyone.
To ensure that we are doing both, we ask you to tell us about relevant unspent criminal convictions or cautions, charges that you have or current ongoing police investigations.
This is to support you whilst you are at university and to ensure that we are aware of any risks; the aim is not to disadvantage you in any way in your studies.
The information you provide is confidential and only available to limited staff members on a need-to-know basis.
The first time you will get asked this question is when you accept an offer and choose Salford as your first or firm choice.
You will receive an email from Admissions asking you to disclose.
It is very important that you tell us when you are requested, so that we can ensure we can support you to continue with your chosen area of study.
We will also ask the same questions every year when you complete Online Registration, in case of a new conviction, caution or investigation since the last time we asked.
The only exception to this is if you are on a School of Health & Society course that requires an enhanced DBS check.
In this case the School’s onboarding team will complete all the relevant checks around criminal convictions.
More information on how this works can be found at DBS and Occupational Health .
You are only required to tell us about certain types of conviction or investigations, you don’t have to disclose everything.
The two words here that are important to what you disclose to us are ‘Unspent’ and ‘Relevant’.
If you are unsure, it is always best to tell us.
You can find additional information by reviewing our Applicant and Student Criminal Convictions Policy and Procedure .
Generally, if you are still in a rehabilitation period for a conviction, caution, reprimand, or final warning it will be ‘Unspent’, and you will need to disclose to us.
After your rehabilitation period it will be ‘Spent’ and there is no need to disclose except in serious cases like sexual offences.
You can check what is spent and unspent by either using the government checker or the tool on the charity Unlock’s website https://unlock.org.uk/
These usually relate to crimes against an individual, or to supplying controlled drugs.
Here is a list to help you decide if your conviction is relevant.
If it is, you will need to tell us.
If you are currently under investigation, but have not been convicted of a crime, you are also required to tell us about any relevant investigations (see above).
The University’s role here is not to investigate the allegations against you and  not to decide whether you have or have not committed the offence.
Our role is to help support you whilst you are going through the investigation as we know that studying whilst under investigation by the police can be very stressful, it will also ensure you are safe, and we can work with the police if needed to offer you support.
The information you provide will be confidential to those involved in your support at the University.
If, after our consideration of the information you provide, we think it is necessary to investigate further, we will contact your third party nominated person.
If you wish to provide the details of a third party, such as a probation officer, and agree to authorise the University to communicate about the background of your convictions and current situation please give their full name, position and contact details on the form.
If you do not inform the University of a relevant unspent conviction/ final warning, charge or reprimand that the University subsequently becomes aware of, this may be considered through the Student Misconduct Procedure, or the Fitness to Practice process which could have serious repercussions, and in the most serious cases could result in expulsion from the University, so it is important that you do tell us about anything which is relevant.
When you disclose a Criminal Conviction or Ongoing Police Investigation, you may be contacted by us for more information that we may need to make a decision or for clarification on the information you told us about on the form.
Important factors here are things like how long ago the offence took place, are you likely to offend again and what you have learned from the experience.
We will also consider any risk to other staff, students and visitors to the University.
In most cases, we will be able to decide on what support you need and what we need to put in place, with the information you provide here.
In more serious cases a Criminal Convictions Panel will be convened (sometimes you may be asked to attend this) to decide the best way to support you.
We may involve professionals involved in your case/ conviction in this decision-making process if it is appropriate.
After a decision is made, you will be informed within 10 working days.
We will also sign post to any external and internal support that may be useful to you.
The University is committed to providing the best support for all our students and this process is to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to give you the best chance of success and to ensure that you get the support you require”
It is important to note that some courses lead to professions where professional registration is required, and certain convictions may be problematic should you wish to pursue this career.
In rare circumstances, certain convictions may impact on your ability to successfully study for your chosen course.
The University will discuss the available options with you, which may include a change in programme, or even withdrawal or interruption from the course.
If you have any questions, concerns or need further information please contact SES-CC@salford.ac.uk
View our full - Applicant and Student Criminal Convictions Policy and Procedure
Fill out our disclosure form - Tell us about criminal convictions, charges or current investigations

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/fitness-to-practise:
The Fitness to Practise Procedure relates to professional misconduct and/or professional unsuitability of students whose professions are regulated by Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs).
It allows the University to deal with allegations relating to student professional fitness and suitability.
It cannot, and does not seek to, replace other civil or criminal processes which should be used where more appropriate.
If your programme is accredited by a Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Body, or if it leads to possible membership of such a body, then it may be covered by the Procedure.
Your Programme Team should be aware if it is covered.
The current list of programmes covered is included as an appendix to the Procedure.
The Fitness to Practise Procedure can look at a broad range of activities.
The exact nature will be influenced by the relevant Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies, for instance students on a nursing programme are expected to be familiar with and meet the requirements set out by the Nursing & Midwifery Council (NMC) code.
Professional misconduct relates to inappropriate behaviour, in includes the full range covered by the Student Misconduct Procedure , misuse of social media, academic misconduct, aggressive behaviour, harassment and abuse, misuse of University property etc., but also includes issues specific to professional practice, such as failure to maintain appropriate professional boundaries.
Professional unsuitability relates to concerns that arise that a student is unsuitable for the profession for which they are studying.
This may relate to matters of health, aptitude, behaviour or other factors.
If you have been invited to meet with the Dean of School (or nominee) for an informal discussion, it means there have been concerns raised about your conduct.
The communication inviting you to the meeting should clearly set out what these concerns are.
At this stage the University is invoking the procedure, but no formal action is currently being taken.
Where allegations are considered most serious, particularly, but not exclusively, those that may impact on the safe and efficient running of a placement and/or the University, or which relate to aggressive and violent acts, the University may decide to take action pending a hearing.
This may include suspension from placement, study or both.
This is a precautionary measure and does not assume that any misconduct has occurred.
This form of ‘action pending’ can be flexible, and where practicable the University will seek to minimize the disruption to the studies of the student against whom the accusation is made.
However, in some instances this is not possible.
As placements are provided by organisations external to the University, it is unlikely that it will be possible to be flexible in relation to suspension from a placement.
The Procedure allows for a review of ‘action pending’ where there is evidence of significantly altered circumstances.
You will need to submit the request, along with the relevant evidence to studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .
Many cases are dealt with at the preliminary stage.
Here you may be given further support and guidance as to your professional responsibilities and asked to complete a piece of work to demonstrate your understanding.
However, where the matter is considered serious the University may enter a formal stage.
The first part of this is the appointment of an investigator, who will gather evidence relating to the case.
As part of the investigation they will ask to interview key parties.
Once the investigation is completed the Dean of School (or nominee) will review the report and decide whether to submit it to a hearing.
The investigator’s role is neutral, it is to gather evidence related to the concerns raised, not to make a case.
The most serious cases will be referred to a University Fitness to Practise Panel.
This Panel will take an independent view on whether there is evidence to support the allegations of misconduct or unsuitability and, if there is, impose an appropriate sanction.
Where a case is not considered most serious, then it may be referred to a School level hearing with the Dean of School (or nominee).
A University Fitness to Practise Panel can impose a range of sanctions from a written undertaking to be of good behaviour, up to removal from the programme, a period of suspension and expulsion from the University.
A School level hearing has a more restricted range of sanctions and cannot suspend a student, remove credit or expel a student.
You have the right to appeal against a decision taken at School hearing, or by a Fitness to Practise Panel, as long as the appeal is submitted on one of the three grounds set out in the Procedure and within the timescale allowed (ten working days of the formal notification of the outcome).
Third parties cannot challenge decisions made through this Procedure.
There are no further stages in the University Procedure however, the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) provides an independent scheme for the review of student complaints.
Further information can be found at www.oiahe.org.uk
There is an appeal form available to assist you with submitting a request for Review.
The University will seek to resolve all matters promptly.
Where investigators need to speak to a range of people, including those at external placements this can add to the time it takes.
Cases involving matters being considered by police, criminal or civil procedures, including professional body procedures, may be put on hold until those external proceedings are completed.
This can extend the whole process significantly.
Where there has been a finding against you or an ongoing consideration of an allegation against you under an Academic Misconduct , Code of Conduct , Fitness to Practise or Student Misconduct , then they may not be eligible to participate in some activities, such as studying or working abroad or professional placements.
Restrictions may also be imposed by individual partner institutions and as such details of restrictions will depend on the programme of study and the proposed partner institution.
If you have concerns about this, you are advised to contact your School.
Some professional bodies require sign off by members of staff as part of a student’s registration process.
These are matters for the bodies concerned and are not part of the Fitness to Practise Procedure.
Some employers with a contract with the University require the University to inform them of the outcome of any formal hearings.
Where the student is also a registrant the PSRB may be informed.
The university has obligations to inform of the Disclosure and Baring Service (DBS) of certain types of concerns which would be considered via this procedure.
Notification of formal findings maybe included in references where they are considered relevant.
Should you choose to withdraw partway through a case, the university will normally continue to complete the case.
Moving on for example to a formal hearing, or pause the case, putting a note on your file.
In these circumstances, should you wish to return, the University would reserve the right to re-open the original case before you would be able to re-join.
Depending on the nature of the concern, if you wish to raise a concern about the behaviour of another student you can raise it with Report It , your Personal Tutor, the Wellbeing team or email studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .
The University will not normally take forward anonymous reports, unless corroborating evidence can be provided.
The University may withhold personal information about individuals involved in a case from other parties, if, and when, it is considered appropriate and does not have a negative effect on the intention to ensure ‘natural justice’.
Individual independent advice to students is available from the Students’ Union’s Advice Centre (email advicecentre-ussu@salford.ac.uk ).
Depending on the nature of the concerns raised you may also be able to get further information the Investigator within the School, your Personal Tutor or Programme Leader.
The Quality and Enhancement Office can advise you on general enquires about the procedure by emailing studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/current-students/sexual-harassment-and-misconduct:
We prioritise the safety and wellbeing of our students, colleagues and visitors at the University of Salford.
We believe that abuse, harassment and prejudice of any kind is never OK.
We all have a responsibility to make sure we understand and practice consent and understand what constitutes sexual misconduct to keep everyone in our community safe and supported.
On this page you can find information about:
Please note: we refer to University staff members as 'staff' or 'colleagues' interchangeably on this page, dependent on the context of the information.
Sexual harassment is a form of unlawful discrimination under the Equality Act 2010 and refers to any unwanted verbal, non-verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that has the purpose or effect of violating the recipient’s dignity, or of creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the recipient.
The definition also includes treating someone less favourably because the person has either submitted to or rejected sexual harassment, or harassment related to sex or gender reassignment.
Sexual misconduct is a broader term that refers to any unwelcome behaviour of a sexual nature that is inappropriate, unethical or illegal.
While sexual misconduct includes sexual harassment, misconduct also covers a wider range of actions, such as sexual assault, exploitation, abuse of power or trust in sexual situations, or violations of policies or laws concerning sexual behaviour.
Sexual misconduct can involve both criminal and non-criminal actions and may occur in professional, academic, or personal contexts.
At the University of Salford, sexual misconduct encompasses any sexual behaviour that violates our Code of Conduct and the policies we identify further on in this page.
We encourage those who witness or are impacted by an incident of sexual harassment or misconduct to report it to us through Report It , our secure and confidential online reporting platform.
Students and staff members can report incidents like sexual misconduct, harassment, bullying, discrimination and hate crimes whether they took place on campus, off campus or online.
Concerns that course material amounts to sexual harassment or misconduct can also be reported through Report It.
Reports can be made anonymously or with contact details for follow-up.
Report It also provides information and access to support services and guidance for those who have experienced or witnessed such incidents.
We are committed to providing a safe and supportive environment for everyone.
That’s why any report of sexual harassment or misconduct is handled sensitively and taken very seriously.
As well as the actions outlined below, we produce anonymised reports based on information gathered from Report It submissions, which are used to identify trends in the types of cases that are being reported to us, as well as the location and number of incidents.
This helps us to effectively plan the support required and use our resources most efficiently.
One example of this is that we can use this data to develop communication campaigns to improve our community’s knowledge about identified issues.
When a report is submitted by a student about another student or staff member, an advisor will be assigned to the case and will contact the student making the report (referred to here as the ‘Reporter’) via email to arrange an appointment to discuss next steps.
To ensure the Reporter gets the right support, we will always try to link them with an advisor who has experience in the issue they are reporting.
Any actions following a report will depend on what the Reporter has experienced and whether they wish to take any further action.
If they wish to pursue action after their report, they will be fully supported by the advisor assigned to their case.
Reporters can also choose not to pursue any action, or to pursue this later.
However, there are some limitations if action is pursued later (for example, details may become less clear as time passes).
Advisors will share this information with Reporters as required to ensure they fully understand their options.
While reports are confidential, we have a duty of care for students and staff and may have to break confidentiality if there is a safeguarding concern, or if there is a concern relating to a student’s Fitness to Practise related to the course they are studying.
This includes if a Reporter withdraws from the process at any time.
In cases where Student Misconduct might have occurred, the report is reviewed by the University’s Student Case Management Group and may be referred to investigation.
This process may include the investigator meeting with the Respondent (the person who has been alleged to have broken the Student Code of Conduct), gathering accounts from any witnesses and reviewing relevant evidence in relation to the allegation(s).
During this process, the Reporter is provided with regular updates and support by their assigned advisor.
Any actions as a result of the investigation depends on the nature of the report, however the University may proceed with formal action through the Student Misconduct Procedure or Fitness to Practise Procedure .
Reports submitted to Report It by University staff members where a reported/responding individual is a student follows the same process as above.
However, staff members will be advised to receive support through HR / their line manager rather than through our student support services.
Reports submitted to Report It by University staff members about themselves or other colleagues that don’t involve students are handled by our Human Resources (HR) team who will look at the best approach in line with our staff policies and will reach out to advise the Reporter of possible next steps.
Staff members can also speak to the HR team directly by submitting a help desk request through the University's HR system, Oracle.
If a report is submitted anonymously, our team is not able to reach out and provide support directly.
No action against a particular member of staff or student will be taken unless it is possible to verify the matter reported.
However, we still encourage anonymous reports as they can highlight potential issues and enable us to identify any trends for which we can create a plan of action.
For example, we encourage staff to report on behalf of students who have disclosed to them (but who have indicated that they do not want support from our teams or to be identified).
Capturing this data helps shape proactive activity to change our community’s behaviour, encourage more active bystanders and generally improve understanding of these issues – ultimately leading to prevention.
We will not share the details of a report with anyone else without consent, unless we are worried about an individual’s safety or we have safeguarding, security or campus safety concerns.
We will always try to discuss this with the person who made the report first.
We will only keep information contained in a report for as long as is necessary to fulfil the purposes for which it has been collected.
Submissions to Report It are not official complaints.
However, if a student or staff member want to make a report 'officially’ to the University, they can decide when they want to do this with the full support from the member of the team looking after their case.
While we have a summary below about how we approach investigations fairly, you can find the full details on our Student Misconduct investigations webpage .
We undertake regular reviews of and updates to the misconduct investigation process as part of our ongoing commitment to continual enhancement and improvement of our working practices.
We do this to ensure the University is aligned with and adopts best practices and evolving standards.
When the University receives a report of alleged misconduct by a student from any reporter, the Student Cases Management Group initially assesses the report to determine whether it warrants a full investigation under the Student Misconduct Policy and Procedure.
The initial assessment centres on the credibility, relevance and seriousness of the allegations.
In some instances it may be necessary for information to be gathered to inform the decision-making process, which is when an independent investigator is appointed to conduct a thorough and unbiased investigation.
Wherever possible, the investigator appointed will have no connection to the reporting student’s school or location of where the alleged incident took place.
All investigators are provided with comprehensive training that covers:
All staff members are required to act in line with University HR policies, including the Dignity at Work and Study Policy .
This continues to apply throughout the Student Misconduct investigation process.
The principles of confidentiality and objectivity are central to the investigation process and all information and evidence gathered is handled with the utmost integrity.
Involved parties are also provided with an opportunity to raise any concerns about investigators during our processes.
Respondents are provided with an overview of the allegations which have been made, the process and their rights throughout the process, and the potential consequences.
Respondents are also offered and signposted to wellbeing support through the University and advice through the Students’ Union as appropriate.
Once the investigator has concluded their investigation, they compile a report detailing their findings.
They do not determine whether misconduct has occurred: their role is to gather all the necessary information for the case to be reviewed by an independent Student Misconduct Reviewer, who will determine whether there is a case to answer.
Following the conclusion of any student misconduct hearings, any party involved with the process can use the appeals process to highlight their dissatisfaction with the investigation outcome.
Any appeal will be reviewed by an independent member of the University, ensuring the grounds for appeal are thoroughly considered.
You can find out more about how we approach investigations fairly on our Student Misconduct Investigations webpage .
The University of Salford is committed to transparency and the fair treatment of all members of our community.
We are a signatory of the Can't Buy My Silence pledge and will never support or require the use of Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs) in the handling of staff and student casework that relates to sexual harassment, sexual violence and other forms of misconduct and/or bullying.
We are of the view that NDAs can create barriers to open dialogue, hinder accountability and may discourage individuals from speaking out about their experiences.
We design our processes to ensure they are fair, confidential (where appropriate) and respectful of all parties involved.
Where confidentiality is necessary to protect individuals or the integrity of a process, it will be managed through internal procedures and ethical standards, not through the use of NDAs.
You can learn more about how we act on reports of sexual misconduct or harassment including the actions the University can take and what to expect from an investigation in our Report It FAQs and on our Student Misconduct investigations webpage .
We retain an impartial position and have a duty of care to all our students, irrespective of whether they are a reporting or responding student.
Throughout the reporting and investigation process, the Reporter is supported by their assigned advisor and is also signposted to our Wellbeing and Counselling services and offered support with making an appointment.
Reporters’ advisors will ask for updates on their case from the Conduct Officer when required and liaise with the Reporter.
Throughout the investigation process, Respondents are also signposted to our Wellbeing and Counselling services and appropriate Students’ Union services (such as the Advice Centre ) and kept informed about the investigation by either the Student Conduct Officer or investigator dependent on the context and update.
At times it may be necessary for us to take action to safeguard all parties involved which may require decisions being made to ensure parties do not come into contact with each other.
In such instances, precautionary measures may be put in place whilst an investigation is taking place.
Sometimes it may be necessary for one of the parties involved to be temporarily suspended from areas of the campus or the campus itself.
Any measures taken in this regard are not an indication of inferred guilt but to ensure both parties are safeguarded during the process.
An example where this approach may be taken is when both the reporter and respondent are in the same tutor group for a course with lots of practical activity or in-person attendance required.
We ensure students can continue with their studies wherever possible.
Any arrangements put in place will be monitored and students are able to request a review in specific circumstances, for example, where access learning materials to support study may be challenging.
If an incident of sexual misconduct or harassment has affected students’ ability to study or complete assessments, they could be entitled to use the University’s Exceptional Circumstances procedure (formerly known as Personal Mitigating Circumstances or PMC procedure) and may be granted a replacement assessment attempt or a removal of the capped mark on a late submission.
Evidence is provided by the advisor to support the student’s application.
Incidents of sexual harassment and misconduct can have a huge impact on the mental health of those involved, including witnesses.
For students , we provide:
To support staff members , we have over 60 trained mental health first aiders across the University who are advocates and ambassadors for mental health in the workplace and play an important role in shaping, delivering, embedding, and communicating positive wellbeing initiatives.
Each mental health first aider has undertaken a two-day training workshop delivered by Mental Health First Aid England and receives a resource pack, alongside ongoing refresher training sessions.
We also provide comprehensive mental health support for staff through the CareFirst helpline 24/7 on 0808 168 2143 .
As outlined in our Safeguarding policy , all University staff members are responsible for treating safeguarding issues as an absolute priority and to report any concerns they may have.
The University ensures all colleagues are fully informed of their responsibilities during colleague onboarding and as part of the University training refresh schedule protocols and guidance.
We have also appointed Designated Safeguarding Officers (DSOs) to work across the different departments within the University to protect individuals at risk from abuse including sexual harassment and misconduct.
DSOs have a higher level of Safeguarding training and offer advice, guidance and support to staff members to promote a safe environment for all our students and colleagues to work and study in.
Visit our Safeguarding webpage to learn more about the responsibility of DSOs.
The Dignity at Work and Safeguarding e-learning modules are mandatory for all staff and outline the legal context and what our individual and organisational responsibilities are.
They include information on how to create an inclusive environment that is free from bullying or harassing behaviours and what to do should an incident occur.
A voluntary module that focuses on sexual harassment and how our University responds to this behaviour can also be taken by all staff members.
Voluntary training is made available upon request for staff members that are likely to receive and handle reports from students within our community.
This training ensures colleagues are informed how to handle disclosures of sexual harassment and misconduct and the support available to both the Reporter and Respondent.
Staff members have also undertaken training from Victim Support , an independent charity dedicated to supporting victims of crime and traumatic incidents and we have been named the first ‘Victim friendly university’ .
The eLearning and training programmes delivered ensure staff are informed and able to create safer, more inclusive environments for students and staff members.
Interested staff members can find more information on the Staff Hub or contact report-it@salford.ac.uk for more information.
To protect Salford students, staff members and visitors from sexual harassment and misconduct, we have put in place a number of policies, training sessions and learning opportunities.
These work to ensure that everyone in our community is informed about these behaviours and is aware of the support available to them if they experience or witness an incident.
The Student Charter applies to all undergraduate and postgraduate students, as well as to members of staff at the University of Salford.
The Charter outlines our mutual commitments and expectations to ensure a safe learning environment for all.
Included in the Student Charter is the expectation that all members of the University community will be treated fairly and respectfully, and are aware of and comply with the Student Code of Conduct .
Harassment and performing sexual acts without consent are outlined within the Student Code of Conduct as unacceptable and not meeting the expected standards.
By not meeting these standards, the University has the right to impose sanctions including suspension, withdrawal of a past award or academic credit or expulsion.
For more information about acceptable behaviour and expectations, visit our student-facing policies and procedures webpage .
Some students who are on a specific programme leading to membership of, or potential entry to, their chosen profession and Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies must also comply with the University’s Fitness to Practise Procedure .
Behaviours identified in the Procedure as constituting professional misconduct include sexual abuse and the failure to keep appropriate professional and sexual boundaries, and sanctions may be applied in cases where allegations are established.
A child, young person under the age of 18 or adult in a vulnerable situation are subject to our Safeguarding policy .
As outlined in this policy, in instances of alleged sexual misconduct, the appropriate safeguarding leads will be informed about the case as part of the investigation process and may seek advice from the Local Authority Designated Officer (LADO) or the appropriate Adult Safeguarding Team.
You can find out more about this policy and the support provided to children, young people under the age of 18 or adults in a vulnerable situation below.
We recognise the inherent imbalance of power between many colleagues and students and have a Personal Relationships Policy .
The University prohibits intimate personal relationships between colleagues and students where:
Any colleague who is in an intimate personal colleague/student relationship, and who is unclear whether it may be a prohibited relationship, may seek guidance on the matter from the Human Resources team.
We believe that every student has the right to study and be taught in an environment that is supportive and free from harassment, bullying and victimisation.
We also believe that every member of staff has the right to work in a supportive environment free from such behaviour.
Our Dignity at Work and Study Policy outlines behaviour that we will not tolerate and how we aim to eliminate this behaviour e.g., through raising awareness, providing reporting mechanisms – and promoting a climate that encourages reporting, and taking action through appropriate procedures.
This Policy also applies to visitors and third parties and people working for the University who aren’t directly employed by the University.
Our Disciplinary Policy clarifies how issues of colleague misconduct, including sexual harassment are addressed in a fair and consistent manner.
That’s why we make information regarding sexual consent and acceptable behaviours available on our website and share them with our community on a regular basis.
To ensure every student understands consent, we have created a free module called 'Consent for students'.
This isn't mandatory but we strongly encourage students to complete it to make sure they are confident on consent to help prevent sexual misconduct from taking place.
Our active bystander training for students will be released in early Trimester 1 2025.
Stand Up and Step In teaches students how to identify and respond to harassment and sexual misconduct using Brook’s 5Ds model: Direct, Distract, Delegate, Delay and Disapprove.
Co-produced with diverse young people, the training empowers students to intervene safely - especially in peer situations that may seem like ‘banter’.
'Disapprove' offers language to challenge early signs of misconduct, helping prevent escalation.
Designed for diverse student populations, the course explores how harassment intersects with identity.
It encourages respectful expression while recognising the harm certain behaviours may cause, and it balances free speech with the need to challenge discrimination, promoting empathy, inclusion and proactive intervention.
The course will be available on the ‘Our Community and Culture’ section of Blackboard alongside our sexual consent training.
Throughout the year, our teams work to tackle unacceptable behaviours and raise awareness of the support available by organising activities that students and staff members can learn from and take part in.
Below, you can explore some of the past events and activities that have taken place.
For Sexual Violence Awareness Week 2024, Everyone’s Invited delivered a talk on rape culture.
They explained how rape culture exists in society, the factors that contribute to it, and how we can all challenge this culture.
In August 2022 we received our White Ribbon Accreditation, after making a firm commitment to ending men’s violence and abuse against women.
Colleagues from across the University look at how we are responding to gender based violence in this group.
The Group focus over the past 12 months has been around assessing how we prevent and respond to sexual harassment and misconduct.
It’s important that everyone in our community understands what to do if they are experiencing unacceptable behaviour and what support is available from the University, as well as local authorities and organisations.
Information is available on our website about a range of topics including bullying and harassment, domestic abuse, sexual assault and sexual misconduct and we share advice and information throughout the year to both students and staff members.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/student-misconduct-procedure:
The  Student Misconduct Procedure (formerly the Student Disciplinary Procedure) is designed to allow the University to deal with allegations relating to student conduct, discipline or behaviour.
It cannot, and does not, seek to replace other civil or criminal processes which should be used where more appropriate.
The Student Misconduct Procedure can look at a broad range of activities, including misuse of social media, academic misconduct, aggressive behaviour and misuse of University property (see Procedure for a fuller list).
Some University policies, such as the ICT Acceptable Use Policy, may escalate cases to the Misconduct Procedure where relevant.
If you have been invited to meet for a discussion of issues raised under the procedure, it means there have been concerns about your conduct reported to the University.
You can find the Student Misconduct Procedure in our Student Facing Policies and Procedures section .
Where allegations are considered most serious, particularly, but not exclusively, those relating to aggravated, aggressive and violent acts, the University may, on reviewing the risks to all parties, decide to put in place precautionary measures.
This is a precautionary measure and does not assume that misconduct has occurred.
This form of action is flexible, and where practicable the University will seek to minimize the disruption to the studies of the student against whom the concern is raised.
However in some instances this is not possible.
The Procedure allows for a student to request a review of these precautionary measures where there is evidence of significantly altered circumstances.
You will need to submit the request, along with the relevant evidence to studentconduct@salford.ac.uk (see communication and the relevant section of the Procedure for further details).
Many concerns about student conduct are dealt with via other routes, however where the matter is considered serious, the case may be referred into the Student Misconduct Procedure.
Where there is a need for further information a case may be referred to an Investigator whose role is to gather available information, not "make a case", and to then produce a report for review by a Student Misconduct Officer (SMO).
An Investigator maybe an independent member of University staff or where the University considers it appropriate an external individual or organisation.
You will receive further details should a case involving you be referred to an Investigator.
You are strongly advised to engage with the Investigator when invited to do so as this is an opportunity for you to respond to the concerns before a decision is made to refer to a hearing.
The most serious cases will be referred to a University Student Misconduct Panel; this Panel will take an independent view on whether there is evidence the misconduct occurred, and if it did to impose an appropriate sanction.
Where a case is not considered most serious, then it may be referred to a Summary hearing with a Student Misconduct Officer (SMO).
A University Student Misconduct Panel can impose a range of sanctions from a written undertaking to be of good behaviour, up to expulsion from the University (details in the Procedure).
A summary hearing has a more restricted range of sanctions, excluding suspension, removal of credit and expulsion.
You will have received a letter/email advising of the date and time of the hearing and the detailed nature of the allegation.
You will have the opportunity to submit a written response and also to attend the hearing, currently via video conference, to address any allegation.
The hearing will be with a Student Misconduct Officer (SMO), plus one other member of staff who will take a record of the hearing.
The sanctions that can be applied are:
This will occur where any alleged misconduct is deemed to be most serious and the matter has been referred to the Panel for consideration.
The Student Misconduct Panel comprises two members of staff (one who serves as Chair) and a nominee of the Students’ Union.
A member of staff who acts as Secretary to the meeting but does not take part in the deliberative process will also be present.
A Student Misconduct Officer (SMO) will speak to the alleged misconduct whilst you or your representative will be able to speak in response.
As in the case of a Summary Hearing the outcome is decided on the balance of probabilities.
The sanctions available to the Student Misconduct Panel include those available to a Summary Hearing, plus:
For serious cases of academic misconduct referred to a Student Misconduct Panel via the Student Academic Integrity Policy and Academic Misconduct Procedure (AMP), the Panel also has recourse to the range of academic sanctions within that Procedure.
You should be aware that, where there has been a finding against you or an ongoing consideration of an allegation against them under a University procedure such as Academic Misconduct , Code of Conduct , Fitness to Practise or Student Misconduct, then you may not be eligible to participate in some activities, such as studying or working abroad or professional placements.
Restrictions may also be imposed by the Students’ Union and individual partner institutions and as such details of restrictions will depend on the programme of study and the proposed partner institution.
You have the right to Request a Review (appeal) against a decision taken at Summary hearing, or by a Student Misconduct Panel, as long as the Request for Review is submitted on one of the three grounds set out in the Procedure and within the timescale allowed.
You will need to complete the relevant form and send this via email to studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .
The timescale to submit your appeal is 10 working days from the date of the email confirming the outcome of your original hearing.
There are no further stages in the University Procedure; however, the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) provides an independent scheme for the review of student complaints.
Further information can be found on their website .
Where investigators need to speak to a range of people, such as those at external placements, this can add to the time it takes.
Cases involving matters being considered by police, criminal or civil procedures, including professional body procedures, may be put on hold until those external proceedings are completed or the University is given permission to proceed.
Depending on the nature of the concern, if you wish to raise a concern about the behaviour of another student you can raise it with Report It , your Personal Tutor, the Wellbeing team or send an email to studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .
The university will not normally take forward anonymous reports, unless corroborating evidence can be provided.
The university may withhold personal information about individuals involved in a case from other parties, if, and when, it is considered appropriate and does not have a negative effect on the intention to ensure ‘natural justice’.
Individual independent advice to students is available from the Students’ Union’s Advice Centre .
Depending on the nature of the concerns raised you may also be able to get further information from the Investigator within the School, your Personal Tutor or Programme Leader.
The Quality Management Office can advise you on general enquires about the procedure by emailing studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .
If you have a Reasonable Adjustment Plan (RAP), Carer's Support Plan or other requirements which you wish to be taken into account in how the University manages your case please inform the office from which you received notification.
If you are not sure who this is please email studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/academic-appeals:
The Assessment Board or Postgraduate Research Awards Board (PRAB) is responsible for confirming marks or assessment outcomes and for confirming progression and awards.
Decisions are confirmed to students through either a results letter or a communication from the PRAB.
An Academic Appeal is a way of asking the University to review a decision taken by the Assessment Board or the PRAB.
The University has an Academic Appeals Procedure in our Student-Facing Policies and Procedures repository that outlines the process for submission and review of an academic appeal.
Independent advice about the Academic Appeals Procedure is available  from the Students' Union Advice Centre (salfordsu.com) .
General information on the operation of the Procedure is available from the Quality Management Office at academicappeals@salford.ac.uk or askUS askus@salford.ac.uk .
Appeals can only be considered under specific grounds.
You can submit an appeal on one or more of the following grounds:
Disagreement with the academic judgment of the Assessment Board/Postgraduate Research Award Board in confirming marks, grades and recommendations of examiners for assessments does not constitute valid grounds for appeal.
The assessment's system is robust because it is not based on one person's opinion.
There are a group of people involved in 'verification' (the writing of the assessment such as the question paper or the essay title in the first place) and also in the 'moderation' process where work is checked to make sure that the assessment and marking schemes have been applied properly.
If you are unhappy or disappointed with the mark you receive for a piece of work, you should speak to the module tutor for feedback.
Feedback will help you to understand how the mark was arrived at.
Appeals cannot be considered on the basis that you are unhappy with your marks.
You can only submit an academic appeal when you have received formal confirmation or ratification of your assessment results from the Assessment Board.
You will receive a document called a ‘Results Letter’ setting out all the modules and assessments you have taken, the outcomes and information about next steps where appropriate.
Results Letters are sent to your University of Salford student email account.
If you are unsure about the process for receiving your Results Letter, or when you will receive this, please contact your School Office.
If you do not pass an assessment or module, the Board may offer you an opportunity for a further attempt which may attract a capped mark.
If you wish to submit an appeal, it is very important that you engage with this process when you first receive the Board’s decision, and not wait until you receive the outcome of a subsequent assessment attempt.
It may be too late to consider your appeal if you wait until a later point.
You can only submit an academic appeal when you have received formal confirmation or ratification of your assessment results from the Postgraduate Research Awards Board (PRAB).
You will receive an email through your University of Salford student email account with the decision reached by PRAB.
If you do not pass an assessment, PRAB may offer you an opportunity for a further attempt.
If you wish to submit an appeal, it is very important that you engage with this process when you first receive PRAB’s decision, and not wait until you receive the outcome of a subsequent assessment attempt.
You should complete a stage 1 academic appeal pro forma and include any relevant information or evidence to support your appeal.
This should be submitted to academicappeals@salford.ac.uk within 15 working days from the date on your results letter .
If you are taking an interruption of study, you can still engage with the Academic Appeals Procedure.
The University can only consider an appeal submitted by someone else if you give written permission for another person to do so.
You will need to complete a third party consent form and send this via email to academicappeals@salford.ac.uk or post it to the Quality Management Office.
When your appeal has been received, the Quality Management Office will review your appeal to see if it has been submitted in time, that the issues you have raised can be considered through the Procedure and to check if you have provided any relevant information or evidence.
If your appeal does not meet these checks, the Quality Management Office will write to you and explain why.
If your appeal meets these checks, it will go to your School for review.
When a decision has been reached by your School, you will receive a communication, usually via your University email account.
Possible outcomes are:
If your appeal is upheld or partially upheld, you will be told what this means in relation to affected assessments.
Examples include the offer of a further attempt at an assessment or the removal of late submission penalties/map caps.
If your appeal is rejected, you will be provided with an explanation for this decision.
You will also be advised that there is a second stage of the Appeals Procedure which you can use if you are unhappy with the stage 1 outcome.
We aim to investigate, and resolve appeals as quickly as possible and, in most cases, you are likely to receive a response within 4-5 weeks however it can take longer if cases are complex.
If you are dissatisfied with the outcome reached at stage 1, you can submit a stage 2 appeal.
Stage 2 appeals can only be considered under specific grounds.
You will need to complete a stage 2 appeal form and submit this form along with any supporting information/evidence within 10 working days of the date on your stage 1 appeal outcome letter to academicappeals@salford.ac.uk .
Upon receipt, your stage 2 appeal will be considered by the Director of Academic Quality (or nominee) to see if you have met grounds for further review of your appeal.
If you do not meet grounds, you will receive a communication to explain why.
If you have met grounds, you will be invited to attend a meeting of the Appeals Review Panel which will consider your appeal.
You are allowed to bring a supporter or representative meeting if you want to.
The Panel is made up of three people (including a representative from the Students’ Union).
A Secretary will also be there to make notes.
If you have followed every stage of the Academic Appeals Procedure and you are not satisfied with the outcome, the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) which is the ombudsman for Higher Education may be able to undertake an independent review of your appeal outcome.
You will need a letter from the University which states that you have completed the University’s internal appeals procedure.
The information below gives an indication of the type of evidence which may help to support an Academic Appeal.
It is not comprehensive and there will be circumstances that do not fall within the examples given.
You are encouraged to provide appropriate evidence to support your case.
Reviewers will look specifically at the nature of the evidence provided and the time period which the evidence relates to see if this correlates to the timing of the relevant assessment.
It may not be necessary to supply all the various forms of evidence listed for each circumstance below, but independent evidence is necessary to support each request.
Please be aware that healthcare professionals may charge for any letter or medical evidence which they provide and you are responsible for the payment of these fees.
You will not be reimbursed by the University for any costs associated with obtaining medical evidence.
Appointment cards are unlikely to provide sufficient evidence of a health condition alone, as they will not confirm a medical condition or the period during which you were affected.
As mentioned above, evidence needs to be from an independent person, so if you have an injury for example, it would not be appropriate to provide a photography of your injury but it would be appropriate to provide some kind of medical record (i.e.
fit note, hospital discharge paperwork, letter from a doctor) which confirms the injury and the impact it has had on you.
Photographs are not normally considered as appropriate evidence; however, a photograph of a document generated by a third party will normally be reviewed and considered.
Please note that you do not need to provide original versions of evidence, copies are sufficient.
If concerns arise regarding the authenticity of evidence provided to support an Academic Appeal, the University reserves the right to check the authenticity of such evidence with the identified originating source.
If you are in your final year and due to graduate, you can still attend the Graduation ceremony if the Assessment Board has confirmed an award if you have submitted an appeal; however your current award/classification will appear in the Graduation brochure.
If your degree classification changes as a result of a successful appeal, you will receive a revised certificate.
If you are on interruption of study, you should submit your academic appeal within 15 working days of receiving your results letter.
You will still have access to the University of Salford student email account during an interruption of study so will be able to communicate with the University using this account.
If you are a postgraduate research student and your thesis wasn’t accepted, you can submit an appeal against a decision made by the PRAB, but you should be aware that appeals can’t be considered on the basis that you are unhappy with the outcome.
Whilst we appreciate the work and commitment involved in writing and presenting the thesis; it's important to recognise that a doctorate is awarded on achieving the specific Doctoral criteria (Assessment level 8), rather than the effort or time expended.
If you are a postgraduate research student and you didn’t pass your viva voce examination, the reasons why your thesis is not accepted will be made clear to you both during and after the examination.
You may feel it helpful to discuss the outcome with your supervisor, who if present during the Viva, could provide additional feedback.
If the Assessment Board has decided that you must complete reassessments or retakes, and you have submitted an appeal against this decision, it is important that you continue to complete any relevant assessments until the outcome of your appeal is known.
Students who have an outstanding appeal will often need to submit assessments, no matter what the outcome of the appeal is.
For example, a student who submits an appeal on the basis of late notification of personal mitigating circumstances will still need to complete assessments as accepted personal mitigating circumstances will not change an assessment mark or provide a route to the award of credits.
Contact your School Office if you have any queries about reassessment or retake requirements.
If you have an appeal under consideration and the outcome you are seeking from your appeal is the ability to progress to the next level/stage of your course, then you may temporarily continue at the next level your programme of study providing that a successful appeal will enable you to accumulate all the credits necessary to complete the level/stage.
Whilst you are awaiting an outcome from your appeal, you submit assessments at the higher level and receive marks/feedback.
Please be aware that that marks cannot be confirmed/ratified by an Assessment Board whilst an appeal is pending.
If your appeal is successful, the Assessment Board will permit you to progress.
Any marks obtained during the interim period will be confirmed/ratified by the Assessment Board.
If your appeal is unsuccessful, any marks obtained during the interim period will not count.
This is because you have not formally been permitted to progress.
You will be required to stop attending modules at the higher level/stage and retrieve outstanding credits from the lower level/stage.
If your course requires attendance on clinical placements, this will be at the discretion of your School.
Whilst the above represents general guidance offered to students there may be exceptions to the above which apply to specific courses, especially where courses are regulated by professional bodies so you are advised to speak to your programme leader about temporary progression arrangements whilst awaiting an appeal outcome.
If you have been required to withdraw from your programme, you will not be able to continue with your studies.
If your appeal is successful and the decision to withdraw is overturned, you will be permitted to undertake replacement assessment attempts the next time they are available.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/governance-and-management/academic-handbook:
The Academic Handbook comprises a set of academic policies and procedures that support the university's academic quality assurance and enhancement activities relating to its taught and research degree programmes.
These academic policies and procedures reflect relevant strategies of the university.
They have been mapped against the expectations of the UK Quality Code for Higher Education to ensure compliance with the external framework.
For further information and guidance on the policies and procedures below, as well as any related forms, please see the QMO page on the Staff Hub.
If you are a current student looking for our Student Handbook filled with helpful links you might need during your time studying we recommend visiting our Current students page.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/academic-misconduct:
Academic integrity is central to the work and function of the University.
The Student Academic Integrity Policy and Academic Misconduct Procedure are used to consider concerns raised around the integrity of work submitted for credit or award from the University.
The Procedure does not consider whether a student intended to commit academic misconduct, but only that academic misconduct occurred.
Action may be taken against current students regarding recently submitted work, or against current or former students regarding previously submitted and ratified assessment or awards.
Where academic misconduct is found to have occurred in a taught programme, an academic sanction must be applied.
The two academic sanctions are:
The Academic Sanction, the mark of 0 (zero) will be applied to the relevant assessment.
For example, if academic misconduct was found to have occurred at your first attempt, you will have the opportunity for a re-sit.
Please bear in mind that if the 0 applies to your final assessment attempt, then there will be no further opportunities for you to repeat the assessment.
You will need to contact your school to confirm details of the impact of an academic sanction on your study.
A limited number of cases are referred to a University-level panel hearing.
If a case is upheld, the panel may also apply one of the sanctions from the Student Misconduct Procedure in addition to one of the academic sanctions above.
The sanctions in the Student Misconduct Procedure include formal reprimands, action plans, removal of credit, suspension and expulsion from the University.
For students on postgraduate research degrees, academic misconduct will normally result in expulsion ( see Academic Misconduct Procedure for details ).
The University defines a range of examples of types of academic misconduct:
Collusion.
Collusion occurs when, unless with official approval (for example in the case of some forms of group projects), two or more students collaborate in the preparation and production of work which is ultimately submitted by each in an identical, or similar, form and/or is represented by each to be the product of their individual efforts.
Collusion also occurs where there is unauthorised co-operation between a student and another person in the preparation and production of work which is presented as the student’s own (see also contracting another, below).
The act of one student allowing another access to their own work is considered an act of collusion by both parties, regardless of intent.
Where one student takes the work of another (without proper acknowledgement), this is potentially an act of plagiarism (see above).
The act of sharing a laptop without students ensuring their work is protected, for example behind a password, would be considered collusion where one student's work is used by another in an unauthorised manner.
Depending on the nature and timing of the allegation, you may be informed in different ways.
For coursework it might be by the tutor who initially notices the concern via the normal assessment feedback mechanism, in an examination the invigilator, by the School Office or Academic Misconduct Officer (AMO) reviewing the concern.
The procedure sets out a target timescale for the consideration of cases.
The University will aim to review the issues as speedily as possible.
However, some cases are more complex than others and an AMO may need time to work with tutors to compile the relevant evidence.
Should the case be referred to a hearing, timing will depend on the scheduling of the next School or University level hearing.
Should the consideration of your case exceed the expectation that is set out in the timeline, the University will seek to keep you informed of any delays.
Schools appoint members of academic staff to act as Academic Misconduct Officers (AMOs).
Their role is to review the evidence available to see if there is a case to answer.
They may liaise with the person raising the initial concern, to guide them in collating the evidence and to make an academic judgment on whether there is a case to answer.
The AMO does not investigate a case and does not decide that academic misconduct has occurred.
The majority of cases are considered at a School hearing.
Those deemed ‘most serious’ are considered by University level panels.
Decisions at School hearings are undertaken by a nominee appointed by the Dean of School.
Decisions at University level are taken by panels established under the Student Misconduct Procedure .
Some students at earlier stages of undergraduate study may be offered the option to accept that the academic misconduct has occurred and to receive the minimum sanction without the case going to a hearing.
If you are eligible for this option you will be informed of this following the AMO review.
Students attending hearings may be accompanied by one person.
Normally that person would act as a ‘supporter’ however, in some circumstances, they may act as a ‘representative’ speaking on behalf of the student.
See guidance available in this document .
Mitigating circumstances cannot be considered in relation to academic misconduct.
A hearing held under the Academic Misconduct Procedure is not permitted to take into consideration mitigating circumstances when deciding if academic misconduct has occurred.
The University has a ‘fit to sit’ policy and, as such, mitigating circumstances can only be considered through the Exceptional Circumstances (formerly Personal Mitigating Circumstances or PMCs), or, in exceptional cases, through the Academic Appeals Procedure .
The University has appropriate mechanisms for the consideration of Reasonable Adjustment Plans (RAPs) , so a hearing held under the Academic Misconduct Procedure will not take them into account in considering whether academic misconduct has occurred.
If the nature of the RAP is such that adjustments will need to be made to assist you through the process of being considered under the Procedure then these can be made.
Due to the confidential nature of RAPs staff considering your case (for example the Academic Misconduct Officer) will not normally be automatically aware of any adjustments that need to be made and you are advised to liaise with them to ensure they are aware of any required adjustments.
You should raise your initial questions with relevant staff in your school, such as your Personal Tutor, Student Progression Advisors (SPAs) , the relevant tutor for the assessment in questions or the School Academic Misconduct Officer (AMO).
If you are unsure who to speak to, please contact your School Office.
Further information about the Procedure, not individual cases, is available from the University’s Quality Management Office by emailing studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .
You should receive information on academic integrity and academic good practice as part of your programme, through induction, in the programme handbook, assessment briefs and course materials.
You may also get further support specific sessions and from tutors on your programme, such as your personal tutor.
Students can get lots of information and guidance on academic good practice via the University Library Skills pages , including one-to-one sessions.
If you have received the outcome of a formal hearing, either at School or University level and you are unhappy with the outcome, you may be able to submit a Request for Review (appeal) against the decision that misconduct occurred, and any sanction imposed of the outcome on one of the grounds below:
There is no entitlement to further review of a case unless one or more of the grounds above are established.
You will need to complete the Request for Review form and send this via email to studentconduct@salford.ac.uk .
The timescale to submit your appeal is 10 working days from the date of the email confirming the outcome of your original hearing.
When we receive your Request for Review, a senior member of staff will review your request to see if it is submitted within the timescale and that it meets any of the valid grounds for further consideration.
If your request is valid then the matter may be referred back to an earlier stage or you will be invited to attend a Student Misconduct Appeal Panel.
If you are due to progress between levels of study but have an assessment which is subject to a case being considered under the Academic Misconduct Procedure, the Procedure allows for students to register at the previous level in order to have access to University facilities and to attend classes at the next level informally until there has been an outcome from the academic misconduct process.
If you have any concerns or questions about how you can access your programme of study, in the first instance please contact your school office.
Where there has been a finding against you or an ongoing consideration of an allegation against you under a University procedure such as Academic Misconduct, Code of Conduct , Fitness to Practise or Student Misconduct , then you may not be eligible to participate in some activities, such as studying or working abroad or professional placements.
Restrictions may also be imposed by partner institutions and, as such, details of restrictions will depend on the programme of study and the proposed partner institution.
If you have followed every stage of the Academic Misconduct Procedure and you are not satisfied with the outcome, the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) which is the ombudsman for Higher Education may be able to undertake an independent review of your complaint.
You will need a letter from the University which states that you have completed the University’s internal procedure (a Completion of Procedures letter).
Further information about the OIA’s scheme can be found at www.oiahe.org.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/skills/study-and-research:
Discover all the essential study, research and personal effectiveness skills you need to succeed in your studies.
If you have uploaded an incorrect file to a Blackboard Assignment area or you think something has gone wrong with your submission please contact Digital IT Services through the Digital IT Portal > Request Something > Assessments & Blackboard > Delete a Submission.
We have produced guidance to help you make the step up to...
You'll need to complete a range of assessments whilst studying...
Learn about the benefits that developing good information...
Read our guidance to help you plan your revision and prepare for...
Group work is an opportunity to build communication, problem...
Our guidance can help you complete the large pieces of written...
Academic misconduct is any action which gains or attempts to gain an unfair academic advantage.
This also includes assisting others to do so.
It includes
The University takes academic misconduct very seriously.
Find out more about what academic misconduct covers and the actions that the University might take if academic misconduct is discovered .
Find e-learning regarding academic misconduct .
By attending an assessment or submitting an assessment, you are saying that you are fit and well enough to take the assessment, so you are ‘fit to sit’.
As such, students cannot normally submit Exceptional Circumstances (formerly Personal Mitigating Circumstances or PMCs) requests on the basis that their performance in the assessment has been affected by exceptional circumstances.
For more information on the Exceptional Circumstances process, see here: https://www.salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/exceptional-circumstances
Most assessment is submitted electronically.
Exceptionally, due to the nature of the assessment, you may need to submit your work offline or using another mechanism.
Your assessment brief will explain what method you must use to submit your work.
If you are in any doubt about the requirements for assessment submission, you should consult your module leader.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you submit your assessment carefully and successfully.
In the case of online submission, you must ensure that you submit your assessment to the correct folder or equivalent.
If you discover, after the submission deadline, that you have submitted to an incorrect Blackboard or Turnitin folder, you should contact your Module Leader to request that the submission is marked, as long as this occurs prior to the meeting of the Module Assessment Board.
Once the late submission period has passed, you cannot change your submission.
Assessments such as presentations or exams or performances have a fixed time for completion so you must complete your assessment at the stated time.
Please speak to your Module Leader if you are unsure of the time you are required to complete one of these assessments.
All other assessments will have a published submission date which you can find on your assessment brief.
It is important that you submit by 16:00 UK time on this date.
A submission after this point, even if only by a few seconds, will be considered as late.
Please remember that technical difficulties may occur when uploading your assignment, so it is recommended that you submit in good time.
If you do experience difficulties, please take a screenshot of any messages with the time, and contact Digital IT for support.
If you are unable to complete your assessment by the submission date, there is a late submission period of 7 consecutive days following the submission date.
This does not apply to timed assessments such as exams or presentations.
Work submitted in the late submission period will be capped at the pass mark (40% for undergraduates and 50% for postgraduates).
If work does not reach a pass mark, no late penalties will be applied.
If work is submitted more than 7 days late it will be recorded as a non-submission and will not be marked.
If you have valid reasons for submitting an assessment late and you have a request for Exceptional Circumstances (formerly Personal Mitigating Circumstances or PMCs) accepted, the penalty applicable for late submission will be removed.
If you have personal circumstances, for example an illness, bereavement or other matter which is affecting your ability to complete or submit an assessment, you can use the Exceptional Circumstances process to tell your School.
You must tell your School about your circumstances no later than 10 working days after your submission date.
Your School will need to know about:
You may also need evidence to confirm your circumstances.
Click here for further information: https://www.salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/exceptional-circumstances
If you are a student at the British University of Bahrain (BUB), please speak to staff at BUB for the correct process to follow.
You will be able to find information about assessment criteria in your assessment brief.
All assessments are either awarded a mark or a pass/fail grade.
Where a mark is given, it is awarded in line with the University marking scale of 0-100%.
The University marking scale below provides brief grade descriptors and Schools have developed subject-specific descriptors that align with the University descriptors.
For undergraduate programmes (levels 3, 4, 5 and 6) the pass mark is 40% and the marking scale is:
For postgraduate programmes (level 7) the pass mark is 50% and the marking scale is:
Your module marks are made official (‘ratified’) at meetings of the Module Assessment Board.
You are entitled to have feedback on all your assessments.
The purpose of the feedback is to enhance your learning and help you to improve.
Feedback on assessed work will be provided to you through Blackboard within 15 working days of the published submission deadline, please note this does not include weekends, bank holidays, the Christmas closure period, or where staff have annual leave.
In the case of written examinations and larger pieces of assessed work feedback will, as a minimum, be an individual unratified (unconfirmed) mark or grade and an opportunity for you to view your annotated examination script/dissertation/project and/or electronic feedback sheet.
An unratified (unconfirmed) mark is one which has yet to be confirmed by a Module Assessment Board and could therefore be changed.
You should contact your School Office if you do not receive feedback within the expected time.
If you have any questions about your feedback, you should contact the member of staff who marked your assessment or the Module Leader.
The University uses a number of different safeguards to ensure that your assessments are marked fairly and consistently.
Where possible, assessments are marked anonymously.
All assessments are moderated internally.
This means that a sample of marked work is checked by another member of staff to ensure that it has been assessed fairly and in accordance with the agreed criteria.
In addition, independent External Examiners are appointed to every programme in the University.
It is their responsibility to check that assessment processes are fair.
They also sample assessed work to ensure that internal marking has been carried out fairly and consistently and is of an appropriate standard in line with national academic standards and expectations for that subject discipline.
If you do not obtain a mark of at least 40% for undergraduates and at least 50% for postgraduates, then you have not obtained a pass mark.
Your tutor will provide you with feedback to enable you to understand the strengths and limitations of your performance in the assessment to help you improve.
Most students have three opportunities to complete an assessment:
Students undertaking the final stage of a Masters programme, commonly known as the dissertation or project stage, will have a first attempt and a resit attempt to achieve a pass.
Some students at levels 3 and 4 may also have an in-year retrieval opportunity.
Further information is available here.
If you are unable to submit or take an assessment, a grade of non-submission will be recorded.
If you have valid reasons for this and you have a request for Exceptional Circumstances (formerly Personal Mitigating Circumstances or PMCs) accepted through the Exceptional Circumstances procedure, you will be offered another opportunity to take the assessment next time it is offered.
This is called a replacement attempt.
If this is your first attempt, your mark will not be capped.
An undergraduate degree programme normally consists of levels 4, 5, and 6.
Each level consists of 120 credits.
A level is sub-divided into a number of modules.
To progress from one level of study to the next, you must gain 120 credits at that level.
On a full time programme, progression between levels takes place at the end of each academic year.
In order to graduate with an honours degree on most programmes, you must accumulate 360 credits over the whole programme.
Some undergraduate programmes offer placements, typically at level 5, and this can mean that you need to accumulate more than 120 credits at that level and more than 360 credits overall.
You can find details of credit requirements for your programme in your programme handbook.
If you are studying a postgraduate programme, this will normally consist of 180 credits and divided into a taught stage of 120 credits and a project/dissertation stage of 60 credits.
You may be permitted to progress to the final project/dissertation stage of your programme with 90 credits from the 120-credit Postgraduate Diploma stage, depending on whether your missing 30 credits relates to a prerequisite module for the project stage.
Modules may include more than one component of assessment and your overall module mark is calculated from the component marks.
Sometimes these assessments contribute equally to your overall module mark, sometimes one assessment is worth more than the other.
In some circumstances, you may be awarded the credits for a module you have failed if you have gained sufficiently high marks in other modules at the same academic level.
This is called compensation.
Compensation is not available for all modules; your programme leader will be able to provide you with further information.
The University’s Academic Regulations for Taught Programmes provide more information about academic progression and compensation:
https://www.salford.ac.uk/governance-and-management/academic-regulations
This information explains how degrees are classified.
Full information is available in the Academic Regulations for Taught Programmes.
Your programme mark determines the classification of your degree.
In order to arrive at your programme mark, we use ratified or confirmed module marks with no discretion for altering the final classification.
In other words, the process for arriving at your programme mark is a purely mathematical one.
Your programme mark for a standard Honours degree (where you have accumulated 120 credits at levels 4, 5 and 6 at the University) is calculated to two decimal points from your best 100 credits at level 5 and your best 100 credits at level 6.
The level 6 credits are weighted three times more than the level 5 credits.
You still need to pass all modules at each level.
The minimum programme mark required for each classification band is:
Sample Calculation:
Module mark 3:       48.00%
(discounted as lowest mark)
Module mark 3:       42.00%
(Level 5 contribution x 0.25) + (Level 6 contribution x 0.75) = Programme mark:  62.35% so Upper Second Class Honours (2.1)
If your lowest module mark is for a 40 credit module, this will be treated as two x 20 credit modules for classification purposes.
Where you have not taken at least 100 credits at level 5 or level 6 on an undergraduate degree programme, your programme mark is calculated using all available level 5 and level 6 module marks achieved during your registration on an Honours degree programme of the University of Salford.
The level 6 credits are still weighted three times more than any level 5 credits.
If you have entered at Level 6 then your degree will be classified on the basis of all 120 credits.
Your classification is decided by calculating your programme mark from the weighted mean average of your best 100 credits’ worth of module marks.
If you achieve a programme mark of at least 60%, your classification will be HNC with Merit.
If you achieve a programme mark of at least 70%, your classification will be HNC with Distinction.
Your classification is decided by calculating your programme mark from the weighted mean average of your best 100 credits’ worth of module marks at levels 4 and 5.
The contribution from your level 4 marks is weighted at 25%, and your level 5 contribution is weighted at 75%.
If you achieve a programme mark of at least 60%, your classification will be HNC or Foundation Degree with Merit.
If you achieve a programme mark of at least 70%, your classification will be HNC or Foundation Degree with Distinction.
Your degree classification is decided by calculating your programme mark from the weighted mean average of your best 100 credits’ worth of module marks at each of levels 5 and 6 and 120 credits at level 7.
The contribution from your level 5 marks is weighted at 15%, the contribution from your level 6 marks is weighted at 35% and your level 7 contribution is weighted at 50%.
If you have achieved a programme mark of at least 70%, your classification will be Postgraduate Diploma with Distinction.
If you have achieved a programme mark of at least 60%, your classification will be Postgraduate Diploma with Merit.
If you have achieved a programme mark of at least 70%, your classification will be Master’s with Distinction.
If you have achieved a programme mark of at least 60%, your classification will be Master’s with Merit.
But I’m so close to the next classification….
The process for arriving at your programme mark is a purely mathematical one and students whose programme mark misses a higher classification by a narrow margin have no redress to ask for special consideration.
Narrowly missing a higher classification by a small margin actually translates into the need to score several additional percentage points in at least one module.
For example, missing an upper second class award by 1% translates into having to achieve 6 or 7 additional marks in a 20 credit level 6 module.
Visit askUS

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/library/know-how/blackboard:
Access course materials, submit assessments, and attend online lectures with Blackboard Learn.
Manage your studies anytime, anywhere!
Blackboard Learn is the University's online learning platform.
Use it to follow your courses, find learning materials, and submit your work.
You can also join online lectures and seminars as part of a mix of in-person and online learning.
Watch our tour video to get familiar with its layout and tools.
Running time: 11:22 Get additional support at Blackboard Help for Students
Get the Blackboard Learn app to
Check out our Online Learning Guidance for valuable tips and conduct expectations.
The Blackboard Ally tool can convert course materials into different formats that work best for you.
You can convert a file to:
If you're not sure which format to download, click on the Help link.
Downloading Alternative Formats
This will save the alternative format to your device so you can access it offline.
Find expert advice and Turnitin guidance in your Assessment Support Module .
Submit your work with confidence - we've got you covered!

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/checking-in-to-class:
You need to register your attendance for all classes, using Study Goal .
Your Tutor will provide you with an Event Code to input, to allow you to register your attendance.
It’s important to attend all classes.
We monitor your attendance because there’s a strong relationship between attendance and how well you do in your assessments.
Also, the connections you make with staff and other students in class have a positive impact on your academic performance and wellbeing.
Whilst all students are required to attend classes, there are more serious consequences if you do not attend if you are:
We use attendance data alongside other data such as engagement with Blackboard and assessment submissions to identify where some students might need extra help.
For example, a student who stops submitting assessments or attending classes altogether may need wellbeing support and we have a duty of care to reach out and check.
We also use this data to help us in emergency situations.
For example, to check that all students in attendance at a class have been evacuated in the event of a fire on campus.
Ultimately, we're trying to make sure you have the best chance to reach your university goals that we can possibly provide.
Sharing an Event Code with a student who wasn’t in the class is a breach of the Student Code of Conduct .
Consequences, such as the Student Misconduct Procedure , may apply if you share codes with others, or if you use a code to claim attendance at a class which you did not attend.
Sharing Event Codes is a serious issue .
We check attendance data regularly and we will also be undertaking random spot checks in class.
You can find a full user guide on our IT Service Portal with step-by-step instructions and images.
This may have happened for a few reasons.
Make your way through the list below to work out your next steps.
As part of the academic regulations and related terms and conditions of registration, you should not attend sessions until you have completed registration.
We recognise that you may, on occasion, be offered local advice that contradicts this.
However, registration forms a very important part of our approach to health and safety.
Please register as soon as possible.
Read information on the new students’ registration page or the returning students’ registration page.
We recommend that you borrow a laptop from the Library so that you have access to a device during your academic session.
You can find information about how and where to borrow a laptop on our Library Laptop Loans page.
Important: you need to have enabled a back-up method of authentication for your Office 365 account so you can log in.
Read more on our multi-factor authentication page.
If you aren’t able to borrow a laptop or you’re not able to log in because of authentication issues, please let the session leader know that you are not able to check in.
You are expected to attend your academic sessions.
We have strict guidelines around absence in our Student Engagement, Interruption and Withdrawal Policy .
You can also find guidance on absences for international students on our ‘during your studies’ page.
We use single sign-on for checking in, so you may have trouble accessing the system while logged in to your staff account.
We recommend using an incognito window or a different browser to ensure you are logging in with your student account.
You should then be able to check in to your session.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/graduation:
Winter Graduation will be taking place during the week commencing 1 December 2025.
Registration has not yet opened for the Winter Ceremonies.
You can defer to the Winter Graduation in December 2025 by completing the Defer my Graduation form by 31 August 2025.
For support with visas, please visit our dedicated Graduation Visas page.
Please refer to our FAQs page for further general graduation information.
Find answers to our frequently asked questions for graduation and contact details for graduation enquiries.
Information about visa requirements for graduation attendees travelling from overseas.
Read all the terms and conditions for graduation.
Information about data relating to graduation will be used, including filming and photography.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/interruptions-transfers-and-withdrawals:
If you are thinking about leaving your programme or wish to temporarily pause or interrupt your studies, we are keen to discuss this with you.
In the first place, you should talk to your personal tutor or your programme leader.
In addition, please contact askUS as we have trained advisers who can help with all types of financial, personal and emotional issues.
It could be that we can help you with your problem or advise you on where you can access relevant help or support.
If you wish to notify us that you are thinking about interrupting or withdrawing, you will need to complete the online form available on the Student Self-Service Portal .
It is very important that you consider your situation carefully.
The following information is provided to help you understand some of the potential implications.
When you return from an interruption of study, you will be required to re-register and will then sign up for the Academic Regulations as well as the programme and module specifications in force at the time you resume studies.
As we are keen for you to be able to stay in contact with us whilst you are on your interruption, you will still have access to your student email account during this period.
In addition to this, you are still welcome to contact your Programme Leader and/or Personal Tutor for any advice or guidance whilst you are on an interruption.
You will also have access to all relevant University buildings, including the Library .
You can continue to receive assistance from askUS and Wellbeing and Counselling , as well as access to advice and information from Careers and Enterprise .
If you want or need to interrupt your studies and would either prefer to continue your tenancy while you interrupt or to end your tenancy, the first thing you need to do once your interruption is agreed in principle with the University is to contact your landlord/agent to discuss it with them.
In most cases, if you want to stay and your behaviour as a tenant has been good, the landlord will be happy for you to stay.
If you would like to leave, a large student accommodation provider will often be sympathetic to this, especially if you provide a letter from the University to confirm that you are interrupting (you can contact askUS to request this).
Other landlords may or may not be willing to release you from your contract.
If you want to leave, your landlord may release you immediately or may require you to pay a portion of your rent and some administrative fees.
If you have met all the conditions of your tenancy, then your deposit should be returned to you in full.
If you are in financial hardship, you can speak with a Money Adviser to see if there is any assistance they can give you.
If you are asked to find a replacement tenant before leaving, try utilising trusted student networks, forums, websites, and bulletin boards to advertise your room.
Also, consider social media platforms and university groups where potential tenants are likely to search.
Your fees will be recalculated up to the point of your agreed last date of attendance in line with the Key Facts about Fees document.
For taught programmes students, if you interrupt after Academic Week 20, you will be charged the full tuition fee for that academic year.
For Postgraduate Research students, if you interrupt after month 8, you will be liable for the full fee for the academic year.
If your tuition fees are being funded through Student Finance, the recalculation is done slightly differently depending on how you are funded.
If you receive your funding from Student Finance England, you are permitted to interrupt your study without incurring any tuition fees up to the end of Academic Week 2.
If you interrupt after Academic Week 2, tuition fees payable are recalculated according to three liability periods.
At each period, a percentage of the tuition fee is paid by the Student Loans Company to the University on the following basis:
As soon as you reach a liability period, you will be charged for the whole of that period.
For example, if you interrupt your study on 30 October, you will incur 25% of the fee (this will apply to all students who interrupt before the second liability is reached in January, when the fee incurred will be 50%).
The University will notify Student Finance of the dates of interruption and of the revised fee amount.
Maintenance loans and other grants awarded by Student Finance England are also recalculated up to your agreed last date of attendance.
However, the University has no involvement in the administration, repayment, or reassessment of these payments or calculations.
It is strongly advised that you contact Student Finance  England to discuss the financial implications before submitting an interruption request.
If you are a self-funding taught student, you are permitted to interrupt your study without incurring tuition fees up to the end of Academic Week 2.
Tuition fees are recalculated on a weekly pro rata basis for taught students and monthly for Postgraduate Research students according to the following formula:
Weekly charges
Fee divided by 30 (i.e.
standard number of weeks in an academic year) multiplied by the number of weeks registered on course.
e.g.
Student paying £6,000 annual fee interrupts in Academic Week 10: (£6,000/30) x 10 = £2,000 fee incurred.
Monthly charges
Fee divided by 12 multiplied by number of months (or partial months) registered.
Student paying £6,000 fee interrupts in Academic Month 3: (£6,000/12) x 3 = £1,500 fee incurred
If you are interrupting and receive sponsorship for your studies, your fees will be recalculated the same way as for self-funding students.
The sponsor will be notified of any outstanding credit or debit balances.
Any discounts offered directly by the University will be recalculated pro rata on the same basis as the tuition fees up to the agreed last date of attendance.
When returning from an interruption of study, you will need to re-register and will be subject to payment of any outstanding fees at the point of your return.
You will also be charged fees for any study to be repeated.
Any scholarships, bursaries, and other discounts will be reapplied commensurate with the fees.
If you are funded by Student Finance, we will send a notification advising you that you are re-registered.
Any part of an academic year attended counts as a full year of funding, however, funded students are generally entitled to one year of funding in addition to the length of their course.
For example, if you're studying a regular 3-year undergraduate degree, you may be entitled to a fourth year of funding.
This is dependent on you not having had prior study and is given entirely at the discretion of Student Finance.
It is recommended that you contact Student Finance to discuss your eligibility for this additional year of funding.
We strongly advise that you interrupt your studies if you suffer from a long term illness or require maternity leave during pregnancy or after giving birth and are unable to continue with studies.
However, please reach out to askUS to discuss any support we can provide.
If you are an international student, we advise that you leave the UK and return to your programme when you are able to focus on your studies.
If you are unable to travel, we advise you contact the Home Office Compliance Team .
This will enable us to discuss your options with you and help you to protect your immigration status.
If you are transferring from Salford, you may need to apply for your future studies through UCAS.
Depending on your last date of attendance, your tuition fee charge will be calculated in line with the tuition fee policy.
Depending on your course of study, UK legislation allows different amounts of total time to study at different levels:
Interruptions and Withdrawals Policy
Research interruptions process
The UK legislation and University of Salford regulations for interruptions are summarised in the following table:
Permitted
You can either:
or
The University will withdraw sponsorship and you will have to leave the UK as soon as possible.* You will have to apply for a new visa when you return.
The University will withdraw sponsorship and you will have to leave the UK as soon as possible.* You will have to apply for a new visa when you return.
The University will withdraw sponsorship and you will have to leave the UK within 28 days.* You will have to apply for a new visa when you return.
*In exceptional circumstances such as where you or your dependent is unable to travel due to health reasons you (and if applicable, your dependent) would have to apply to the Home Office for an alternative visa such as Further Leave to Remain.
If you are unable to travel, we advise you make contact with the Home Office Compliance Team .
In these circumstances you may wish to speak to a specialist Immigration Solicitor, these can be found through Search for an Immigration Advisor .
Once you have considered the above and you have taken an interruption, you will be expected to leave the UK as soon as possible (unless option A above applies).
You will receive an email from the Home Office Compliance Team informing you that you should leave the UK within 28 days and provide evidence of your exit.
This can be:
Send the above to the Home Office Compliance Team: homeofficecompliance@salford.ac.uk
When you are ready to return from Interruption you will need to complete the following actions.
Please note you will only be able to do this after you have provided evidence that you have left the UK.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/exceptional-circumstances:
If you have suffered from serious exceptional circumstances that are unforeseen and beyond your control, and which have affected your ability to complete assessments, you can use the Exceptional Circumstances (formerly Personal Mitigating Circumstances or PMCs) procedure to advise the university of your circumstances.
Please make sure you have engaged with our academic support services and guides on the Student Hub , which can help you to stay on track for progression and/or graduation.
You should read the FAQs below before submitting an Exceptional Circumstances request.
Whilst evidence is usually needed to support your exceptional circumstance, there are some circumstances in which you can submit an Exceptional Circumstances without the need for evidence.
Each of your modules will require you to complete one or more assessments.
The purpose of assessment is to test your knowledge, understanding and skills and to provide you with feedback to enable you to understand the mark or grade you have achieved and to explain how you can improve going forward.
It is therefore very important that wherever possible you try to submit each assessment by the submission date and on time.
If you find that you are struggling with an assessment, it is very important that you speak to someone at the earliest opportunity to access support and guidance.
There is lots of support available to help you complete your assessments on time.
You should contact a member of your programme team, the library or askUS for advice and guidance or visit the Assessment module within Blackboard .
You should not feel worried or anxious about doing so – we are all here to help you succeed.
If exceptional circumstances are affecting your assessment, you should seek support and do all that you can to complete your assessment on time.
If your work is late or you do not submit, this may have consequences and may result in the requirement to repeat or resit your assessment at a later point and maybe for a capped mark.
It also means you miss out on the chance to gain feedback on your performance that may be useful for your learning and support later assessments.
Final year students should be aware that if you do not complete an assessment, this may delay when you can graduate.
Sometimes, despite your best efforts, it may not be possible to complete an assessment on time, in which case you do have the option to tell the university about exceptional circumstances through the Exceptional Circumstances Procedure .
Exceptional circumstances are circumstances such as medical or personal issues which have seriously affected your ability to complete an assessment, over which you have no control, and which you could not have predicted.
These should be one off circumstances and not ongoing events or situations.
Circumstances or situations must have affected:
Here are some examples of what we would usually consider valid Exceptional Circumstances requests:
Here are some examples of what we would not usually consider to be a valid Exceptional Circumstances request:
Information for apprentices
Work related commitments/deadlines cannot be used as a reason for an Exceptional Circumstances request.
If you meet all of the following criteria then you are classed as an apprenticeship student:
As an apprentice, any Exceptional Circumstance requests made on the basis of work-related commitments / deadlines will not be accepted.
This is because when apprentices and employers sign up for an apprenticeship programme, both parties agree that a percentage of time will be spent on 'off the job training'.
If you have exceptional circumstances affecting the final 60 credit module of your programme (usually a project or dissertation), where an Exceptional Circumstances request meets the relevant criteria, this can be used to request an extension of six weeks for submission of the assessment.
The reason for the Exceptional Circumstances must be agreed with the school, the Apprenticeship Services Unit and the employer.
Exceptional Circumstances must not be processed without approval from all parties.
During the six-week extension apprentices must complete off-the-job training and have evidence for this (time sheet etc.).
You can submit an Exceptional Circumstances request for any assessment attempt except In-Year Retrieval attempts.
This means you can use the Exceptional Circumstances system for a first attempt, a resit attempt or a retake attempt.
To make a Exceptional Circumstances request, you should complete the online form .
You must:
If you do not provide sufficient information your request may not be accepted, so instead of saying ‘I was ill’, you need to explain the nature of your illness (e.g.
I was ill because I was affected by a virus causing sickness and diarrhea), the length of time you were ill and the impact on you.
The final deadline to submit your Exceptional Circumstances request is ten working days after your assessment/submission date.
You can submit before this time.
If you have a Reasonable Adjustment Plan or Carer Support Plan which permits an extended submission date, your Exceptional Circumstances request must be submitted no later than ten working days after your individual extended submission date.
Your request may be submitted in advance of the assessment date if you know you will be unable to attend or submit, for example you have a hospital appointment or treatment scheduled on the date of an assessment.
You should seek guidance from a tutor or other support service first to see if there is a way that you can meet the submission deadline before opting to submit an Exceptional Circumstances request.
We would recommend that you submit your request close to the point of your assessment deadline so you know if you will be able to submit or not.
If you are a student on the final stage of a taught master's programme, you can submit an Exceptional Circumstances request for the following:
Wherever you can, it is best to provide evidence to support your Exceptional Circumstances request, but we recognise that this is not always possible.
There are two types of Exceptional Circumstances request: an evidence-based request or a request without evidence.
A request without evidence can be used where you have exceptional circumstances arising from unanticipated circumstances where it is not reasonably possible to obtain evidence such as
You can only use an exceptional circumstance without evidence once during a trimester, so you need to think very carefully about when you use this.
Each academic year has three trimesters, and for some programmes, one of the trimesters may be used for reassessment purposes.
Where you have evidence to support your request, you may wish to consider submitting an evidence based Exceptional Circumstances request so that you leave the option of a exceptional circumstance without evidence open to use, if needed, at a later stage and where it is not possible to obtain evidence.
If you need to submit an evidence-based exceptional circumstances, the following types of evidence may support your circumstances:
Fit note
Letter from a GP or other medical practitioner
Hospital discharge note
Appointment letter
Death certificate
Funeral order of service
Travel documents (if you have needed to travel abroad to attend a funeral)
Screen shots of social media pages
Letter from GP or counsellor
Letter or report from police or solicitor
Court documents
Confirmation of a crime number in communication from the Police
If you have discussed your Exceptional Circumstances with a member of university staff (tutor, SPA or any in any of the specialist support services, you can ask them if they would be willing to confirm that they are aware of your circumstances but you must have spoken to the member of staff before the assessment.
Please do not submit photographs which may be disturbing such as photographs of injuries or similar.
If concerns arise regarding the authenticity of evidence provided to support an Exceptional Circumstances request, the University reserves the right to check the authenticity of such evidence with the identified originating source.
Action may be taken through the Student Misconduct Procedure or Fitness to Practice Procedure if evidence is found to be fraudulent.
Late submission
Each coursework assessment has a submission date by which you are required to submit your work.
If you are unable to submit by this date, the University has a late submission period of 7 days following the submission date.
You can submit in the late submission period but your mark will be capped at the pass mark (40% for undergraduates and 50% for postgraduates).
An accepted Exceptional Circumstances request for late submission means that a capped mark will not apply for your first submission attempt and you will receive the actual mark awarded for the assessment.
Absence
If you are absent from an assessment such as an exam or presentation, an accepted Exceptional Circumstances request will give you a replacement assessment attempt at the next available opportunity.
Non submission
If you are unable to submit your assessment, an accepted Exceptional Circumstances request will give you a replacement assessment attempt at the next available opportunity.
The University aims to review Exceptional Circumstances normally within 3 working days of receipt.
This does not include weekends or days when the university is officially closed.
You will be informed of the decision through your University of Salford email address.
Your Exceptional Circumstances request will be seen by staff in your school who have been appointed as Exceptional Circumstances Reviewers.
You should be aware that the information you provide may be shared with staff linked to your course and relevant support services for the purpose of providing you with appropriate support and guidance.
Where Exceptional Circumstances requests are rejected due to insufficient or lack of evidence, you have the option to submit further evidence or information you can, you submit further evidence to support your case within 5 working days.
Details of the process to follow will be provided to you in the email communication which confirms the outcome.
Following conclusion of the Exceptional Circumstances Process and where a Exceptional Circumstances request remains rejected, you may subsequently submit an academic appeal against the decision of the Assessment Board when ratified/confirmed results are available.
You will need to establish a good reason to explain why all relevant information could not be provided through the Exceptional Circumstances Process.
Not knowing about the University's Exceptional Circumstances Procedure would not be considered good reason for non-submission of a Exceptional Circumstances request.
The following would be considered as acceptable reasons to explain why a Exceptional Circumstances request was not submitted in line the Exceptional Circumstances Procedure:
You cannot use the Exceptional Circumstances process to submit repeated Exceptional Circumstances requests for the same circumstances.
If you experience ongoing issues which are affecting your studies, you need to speak to someone in your School (a tutor, your programme administrator or your Student Progression Advisor ) with the details at the bottom of this page or askUS for advice.
An accepted Exceptional Circumstances request for late submission means that a capped mark will not apply for your first submission attempt.
You can only submit one Exceptional Circumstances request for late submission for each assessment each time.
So, for example, if your assessment is due on 1 November you should aim to submit by that date.
You can submit in the late submission period (in this instance until 8 November).
An accepted Exceptional Circumstances request will remove the late penalty.
You cannot submit a further Exceptional Circumstances request for this assessment to extend the late submission period beyond 8 November.
You would be better placed submitting an Exceptional Circumstances request for non-submission.
To receive additional information, help or advice, we recommend you speak to a member of staff in your School (a tutor, your programme administrator or your Student Progression Advisor ) or email:
You can also take a look at our assessment and academic support on the Student Hub .
If you need independent advice, please speak to the Advice Centre in the Students' Union .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/library/know-how/printing:
We now have a brand new print service.
To register, please visit https://myprint.salford.ac.uk (on-campus only, when signed up to the University of Salford Wi-Fi network), and login with your Student email address and password.
*For students on mobile devices, select 'Desktop Mode' at the bottom right of your screen to access the full view of the PaperCut page.
To release print jobs on the new service you'll first need to authenticate your ID card using the instructions provided on the printer.
Once your card is authenticated you can use it to access the printers.
All new students get £2 of free credit.
***To pay for printing using ePayment you must have previously used our printing service as this creates your printing account.*** You can pay by visiting myprint.salford.ac.uk and selecting "Add Credit".
If you are visiting the webpage on a mobile device, you will need to view in desktop mode.
Please note: Unused printing credit is not refundable.
You can also view your printing history and pending jobs from this webpage.
Costs depend on the size of paper and type of print job:
If you are printing through webprint, you can choose to send the document in colour or mono, and as double or single-sided.
If you are not printing through webprint, all of our printers automatically print double-sided and need to be set to print single-sided:
The settings will revert to double-sided automatically, so you will need to repeat this process with every document you want to print single-sided.
You will need to change the settings before you send the file to print:
When you select colour print, you will be charged for colour printing for each page of your document, regardless of whether every page uses colour.
Avoid being charged for colour for any black and white pages in your document by sending them separately.
Step 1: Identify your colour pages: Click your cursor on a colour page and then check the bottom left-hand corner to find out the page number.
In the example below, you can see that the colour page is page 2 of 4.
Make a note of which pages you need to print in colour.
Step 2: Send your colour pages: Click on 'File' and then 'Print' as you would do normally.
In 'Settings' there is a text box called 'Pages:'.
In the text box, type in the numbers of the pages you want to print in colour.
There is a specific format to the pages you type in:
In the example below, you can see that we are going to print pages 1, 3-4.
Click print.
Only the pages you have entered will be printed.
Step 3: Send your black and white pages: Using the same method as step two, enter the number of the pages you wish to be printed in black and white.
Click 'Printer Properties', which will load a new window.
Click on the drop-down box that says 'Colour/Black and White' and change this to 'Colour'.
Click OK, and then continue printing as normal.
Step 4: Release your printing: When both print orders have been sent, print as normal.
You can sort the printed pages back into the order you planned.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/library/find-resources/about-reading-lists:
The Library's Reading Lists service is here to help students searching for recommended readings as well as lecturers looking to create reading lists.
Read our guidance on creating and maintaining your Reading Lists .
Reading Lists are set up by your tutors to guide you to good quality, relevant and useful materials to help you with your studies.
The Library will purchase anything your tutors add to a Reading List, in both print and electronic format (wherever possible).
We buy the resources – so you don't have to!
If any of these methods are unclear then please watch the short video below for guidance:
Reading lists make it easier than ever to access all of your learning resources:
The recommended reading will strengthen your understanding of your subject.
Make the most of this opportunity to expand and deepen your knowledge.
Some tutors may ask you to read specific items to prepare for classes.
It's worth making time to do this reading, so you can go into your classes well prepared.
You'll get more from your lectures and seminars and you'll have a great starting point when it comes to research for assignments or revision for exams.
Remember, you don't necessarily need to read a whole book.
You can start by quickly checking out the Introduction, looking for relevant chapters and using the "search within" option (in eBooks).

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/disability-inclusion-service/reasonable-adjustment-plans:
Reasonable Adjustment Plans (RAP) are something we can help put in place to ensure you have fair and equal access to your education.
You’ll meet with a Disability Adviser to discuss what barriers may be present in your course so we can understand what support you might need.
We’ll explore support strategies that may help enable you to access teaching, learning, assessments and other aspects such as placement or field trips.
Your RAP will detail reasonable adjustments and any difficulties you may have relating to your studies.
It will be distributed to select University staff so that your course will be made more accessible to you and it will include advice for both yourself and University staff.
We understand that your disability may vary from time to time so the support you need may also change.
Amendments can always be made to a RAP to ensure it meets your needs.
We’ll also need to review your support if you start a new course.
If you are a current student, you will need to complete a quick registration form .
If you are a prospective student, please complete the prospective student registration form .
We will also ask you to provide a copy of your medical evidence or Educational Psychologist Assessment.
Find out more information about medical evidence we accept on our medical evidence webpage .
If you do not currently have medical evidence then please download our Medical Evidence Form (DOC 89 KB).
You can take this to a medical professional to complete and provide you with appropriate evidence.
You’ll then be invited to an appointment with a Disability Adviser to discuss reasonable adjustments.
Your RAP will be set up in this appointment and the Adviser will explain how to apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance (if appropriate) or alternative external funding.
You can book an appointment with askUS or by contacting us directly.
We can also hold appointments via phone or through Microsoft Teams if you are unable to come into the University for an appointment.
If you are a student with any additional needs, awaiting diagnostic assessment, or have a temporary condition that may impact on your placement settings, we can offer you a Practice Reasonable Adjustment Plan (PRAP).
This can complement your existing academic focused Reasonable Adjustment Plan (RAP) but is designed to meet your specific learning needs in both practice-based or work-based learning settings.
You do not need to have an academic RAP to access this support, and it is not compulsory for you to have a PRAP if you do have any additional needs.
These plans are designed to accommodate your specific requirements, so you can fully access all learning opportunities making working environments more inclusive and understanding of any specific needs you may have.
The content of the PRAP is led by you.
Your personal tutor and other professionals will work with you to identify areas you may need additional considerations in the workplace.
Please speak to your personal tutor or our Disability Inclusion Service for more information and to discuss this offer further.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/skills/referencing:
We have style guides for APA 7th edition, OSCOLA and Chicago.
APA 7th edition is our official Harvard referencing scheme , and the main referencing style in use at the University.
Law students should use OSCOLA referencing style .
History students should use Chicago .
APA 7th edition is our official Harvard referencing scheme and...
OSCOLA is the referencing style used on law programmes at the...
History students at the University of Salford use the Chicago...
EndNote 21 is reference management software which is on...
We have produced guidance to help you maintain your academic...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/results-letters:
Your results letter will be sent to you via your student email account when the Assessment Board has met to consider your assessment results.
The letter will provide a summary of information about the assessments you have taken, either within the last academic year or the last trimester.
Please see our guidance below to help you understand the information in your results letter.
If you have any additional questions, please contact your School Office .
An academic appeal is a way of asking the University to review a decision taken by the Assessment Board.
You can only appeal decisions taken by the Assessment Board at this point and not for historical decisions taken by an earlier Board.
Academic Regulations for Taught Programmes are the academic rules for all courses that lead to a taught qualification or award.
This includes how degrees are classified.
Assessment Boards have responsibility for ratifying (or confirming) marks and for taking decisions about progression and the award of qualifications.
If your letter advises that you have been awarded compensation, this means that whilst you may not have achieved the pass mark for a module, you have been awarded the credits for the module.
Compensation can only be awarded if the failure is a marginal failure and the failure is offset by good performance elsewhere on the course.
The Academic Regulations for Taught Programmes , provides further information about criteria for the award of compensation.
If you have been awarded compensation, you are permitted to be reassessed on any modules that have been compensated in the next reassessment period (as long as you have not exhausted the number of attempts permitted by the regulations).
You are also permitted to retake any modules that have been compensated in the next academic year (as long as you have not exhausted the number of attempts permitted by the regulations).
You should note that reassessments/retakes may involve stepping off the course, i.e.
not progressing.
Speak to your School Office for more information.
You will need to tell your School Office if you wish to be reassessed in a module/retake a module where compensation has been awarded.
If you have been permitted to undertaken concurrent study, this means that you can progress to the next level of study, whilst trailing a module of no more than 20 credits from your previous level of study.
Concurrent study only applies to undergraduate students on full-time courses.
Concurrent study is not possible for students progressing from level 3 (foundation year) to level 4.
Towards the top of your letter, there will be an overall decision about whether you can progress to the next year/level of your course or the classification you have achieved.
This decision can be found in a section entitled 'Your Results'.
You can find information about graduation and certificates and transcripts on our dedicated webpages.
The level mark on your results letter is calculated from all the module marks at that level/stage of your course and represents a summary of your performance at that level/stage.
Undergraduate students should be aware that whilst you are required to pass all modules, the highest 100 credits will contribute to your overall programme mark and degree classification.
If your results letter indicates that you have submitted an Exceptional Circumstances request, this will explain if your request was accepted or not.
If accepted, then one of two things will happen:
Your letter will only show the latest Exceptional Circumstances request you have made for an individual assessment.
For further information, visit our academic regulations webpage below.
If you do not pass a module at first assessment attempt, you will have the opportunity to undertake a resit/reassessment in the same academic year, for the failed components of assessment.
Resist assessment marks are capped at the pass mark (40 for undergraduates and 50 for postgraduates).
If you do not pass a module at resit/reassessment you will be able to undertake a retake of the module in the next academic year.
The module mark is capped at retake (40 for undergraduates and 50 for postgraduates).
There is no further resist/reassessment attempt possible after a retake.
Retake opportunities are not available to students who are undertaking the final project/dissertation of a Masters programme.
If you are required to retake a module you will be required to pay the proportion of the tuition fees for the module you retake which is applicable at the time of the retake.
This does not apply if you are eligible for concurrent study.
If any module on your results letter is marked with an ‘R’, this means that this is a reassessment or retake mark.
If you are unsure about whether you have any reassessments or retakes, please make sure that you contact your School Office as soon as you receive your letter so that you can check.
You can find information about developing your academic skills on our dedicated webpage.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/governance-and-management/student-protection-plan:
The University of Salford is regulated by the Office for Students (OfS).
The OfS is the independent regulator of higher education in England.
More information on the role of the OfS and its regulatory framework can be found on the Office for Students website.
All higher education providers registered with the OfS must have a student protection plan in place.
The Student Protection Plan sets out what you can expect to happen should a course, campus, or institution close.
Our Student Protection Plan is approved by the OfS and will be reviewed regularly, at least once a year, so its contents will be updated from time to time.
At Salford, we strive to provide you with a stimulating and rewarding university experience.
Sometimes, however, there may be circumstances in which changes need to be made that could substantially affect your studies.
Such cases are very rare and, should they occur, we will take all reasonable steps to ensure that you are fully supported to complete your studies.
This Student Protection Plan explains what measures we will take to protect you if the plan is “triggered” by a risk to the continuation of your programme of study.
Potential risks to study could be, for example, a strategic decision to close a programme or a subject; the University losing the power to award degrees; or no longer being able to deliver programmes in a particular mode of study, such as distance learning.
The Plan sets out the potential risks we have identified, the measures we will take if the Plan is triggered and how we will communicate with you if there is a risk to your studies.
In addition to this Plan, we describe what you can expect from your time at the University of Salford in the following ways:
Registered students
If you are registered for a University of Salford taught or research award, you are covered by the Plan and we will contact you if it is trigged and will affect your studies.
This includes:
You are not covered by the Plan when your registration has been terminated for the following reasons:
Applicants
If you have applied to study at the University of Salford, we will contact you if the Plan is triggered and will affect your future studies.
In such cases, we will inform you of any changes and will offer alternative arrangements wherever possible.
This could include, for example, offering you an alternative programme at Salford or helping you find a place at another university.
We follow Competition and Markets Authority guidance to protect your consumer rights, both when you are an applicant and following your registration with us.
This section provides some examples of the types of events that would trigger the Plan, alongside events that would not be covered.
Section 4 sets out in greater detail the events and the likelihood of them occurring.
Section 5 has details of the measures we will take to protect your studies.
What is covered?
The University’s circumstantial and environmental risks are the same as those of any major institution.
These include events that could not be anticipated and/or are beyond our control, such as fire and flood (often referred to as “force majeure”).
Should a major event occur, our academic schools and support services have in place business continuity plans which address potential issues and detail mitigation, such as ongoing safety inspections, risk assessments and having appropriate insurance in place.
What is not covered?
The table below describes the types of event that could happen, resulting in there being a risk to you being able to complete your studies.
We have assessed each of these events against the likelihood of it occurring.
We explain what evidence we have used in our assessment so you can understand the way in which we have identified each risk.
Section 5 details the measures we will take if the Plan is triggered.
Our business case approval process for programmes of study and partnerships ensures that perceived risks are identified, and contingency arrangements are confirmed prior to approval.
This section sets out what actions we will take to protect your studies if any of the events listed occur.
Normally this Plan will not be triggered for planned changes (e.g.
curriculum amendments).
Similarly, the Plan will not be triggered for circumstances that apply to specific students (e.g.
change in research supervisor).
Section 3 above provides details on these points.
In the unlikely event of the Plan being triggered, we will carry out an Equality Impact Assessment to ensure that the needs of different groups of students are appropriately taken into account.
We recognise that the events listed below could affect our students in different ways depending on their personal circumstances.
For example, disabled students or those with caring commitments may need individual advice and support.
We undertake to work with individual students on a case-by-case basis where our usual protection measures may not be suitable or require modification.
This may include the exploration of reimbursement of any reasonable costs that might be incurred.
Measures
Type of provision
Event (a) (i) - We decide to cease to operate as a university but are able to provide teach out
Event (a) (ii) - We decide to cease to operate as a university and are not able to provide teach out
Event (b) - We lose the power to award degrees
Event (c) - We are no longer able to deliver programmes in one or more locations
Event (d) - We decide to cease to deliver or to suspend programmes in one or more subject areas
Event (e) - We decide to cease or to suspend recruitment to programmes in one or more subject areas
Event (f) - We are no longer able to deliver material components of our programmes due to the unanticipated departure of members of staff
Event (g) - We decide to cease delivery in one or more mode of study
Event (h) - We are no longer able to recruit international students
Event (i) - We lose professional accreditation for a programme
Event (j) - We lose specialist facilities
Should any of the events set out in sections 4 and 5 occur, and where they are not covered by established processes, a group convened by the University Secretary will consider whether they should trigger the Plan or whether it should be referred to the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Team for triggering.
This will depend on the particular circumstances of the event.
The group will include senior officers of the University and representatives of the University of Salford Students’ Union.
The protection measures we have outlined in this Plan will result in you being able to complete your studies with us or transfer to a suitable programme at another provider, should a triggering event occur and depending on the nature of that event.
This means that you would not be entitled to a refund of any tuition fees paid.
If a triggering event causes you to incur additional costs we will consider refunds on an individual basis.
If we cancel your programme, we will give you a full refund of the tuition fees you have paid, including any deposit.
Student Refund and Compensation Policy provides a clear and simple framework so you can understand when you may be entitled to a refund, compensation or another type of remedy, and how to make a claim.
The Plan is published on the dedicated Terms and Conditions page that contains links to student-related information.
If we need to implement the measures in our Student Protection Plan, we will undertake formal consultation and provide tutorial sessions to support you collectively and individually.
We will consult with you if material changes are proposed to your programme through the formal programme and module amendment process .
We will also refer you to the University of Salford Students’ Union Advice Centre to ensure that you have access to independent advice if we need to implement any of the measures in the Plan.
Since the Plan is a new element of our relationship with you, initially it will be reviewed once a year.
The review will be carried out jointly by senior staff and representatives of the University of Salford Students’ Union.
The Plan will then be considered by the appropriate committees before being published for access by you and members of staff.
If you have any concerns about how we implement the Plan, should a triggering event occur, you should follow the Student Complaints Procedure .
Full details about how to do this can be found on the askUS complaints page.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/skills/academic-writing/learn-english-for-academic-purposes-leap:
Book a tutorial
Book on a webinar
Book on a course
Learn English for Academic Purposes (LEAP) is designed to help international students at the University of Salford with their academic English skills.
Unlock new horizons by connecting with students from Salford and Germany!
Enhance your intercultural communication as well as academic and employability skills through these engaging and interactive sessions.
Don't miss this unique opportunity to broaden your perspectives and build a global network.
Learn English for Academic Purposes (LEAP) is a programme which is designed to help international students at the University of Salford with their academic English skills.
LEAP offers:
LEAP gives you the opportunity to develop your academic English language skills, so that your academic work is of a higher quality.
Our online workshops are student-centred and interactive, allowing you to practice your skills.
Depending on the online workshop you choose, you will develop academic fluency for:
You will do this through a combination of tutor input, discussions, and practical activities with students from a range of disciplines across the University.
Our online workshops, which are usually 30-40 minutes in length, take place via Microsoft Teams.
At the end of your workshop, you will have the opportunity to ask your teacher workshop-specific questions, and for extra practice materials.
If you are based on campus, you can also benefit from dedicated learning space in the Language Resource Centre, on the 9th floor of the Maxwell Building.
There are no formal assessments on our LEAP course, but there are a lot of informal activities which take place in each session so that you can monitor your progress and receive feedback from your LEAP tutor.
LEAP is delivered by passionate, highly qualified, and experienced English language lecturers who make sure that every session is enjoyable and valuable.
Our sessions are also accredited by the British Council to provide you with the assurance that you are receiving the highest level of teaching and support.
Our online workshops run at various times throughout the week in trimesters one, two, and three, and are open to both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The workshops focus on challenges that are commonly encountered by international students adapting to the requirements of academic study in the UK.
English language competency in reading, writing, listening, and speaking enhances the quality of your academic work, which is crucial for success during your study at the University of Salford.
Highly competent English Language communicators are more highly valued by employers in whichever country you plan to work in when you graduate.
LEAP helps you interact with people from different backgrounds and enables you to make new friends.
This will have a positive impact on your mental wellbeing.
Our LEAP sessions are designed to be interactive and help you practice your academic skills, so that you can communicate more effectively with your peers, tutors, and wider academic communities.
Depending on which online workshop you choose, you will cover a range of topics.
Our current online workshops are listed below and are bookable through Advantage by clicking on the workshop title.
If a session has no remaining spaces, you can email LEAP@salford.ac.uk to register your interest.
The only thing we ask is that you attend all online workshops that you have booked onto (unless you have a valid reason for absence, such as illness).
Should you know beforehand that you will be absent, please cancel your tutorial slot on Advantage, so that another student can make use of it.
LEAP workshops are added on a regular basis, so keep checking back to see what’s new!
Academic Listening
Academic Reading
Academic Writing
Academic Speaking
Study Skills
Dissertations (Structure and Language)
Literature Review Section
Dissertations (Presentations)
If you have questions about your own work or you would like help about a particular problem, our 1-2-1 tutorial slots are bookable through Advantage .
Tutorial slots are added on a weekly basis, so please check back here if the sessions are fully booked up.
Our 1-2-1 LEAP Tutorials can be used to improve your English Language skills, to practise your speaking and presentation skills, to discuss feedback on your essays, and to plan and structure your assignments.
Please upload any attachments of the work you would like to discuss beforehand.
Instructions for Online Appointments:
Instructions for Face-to-face Appointments:
The only thing we ask is that you attend your 1-2-1 tutorial once you have booked onto it (unless you have a valid reason for absence, such as illness).
Should you know beforehand that you will be absent, please cancel your tutorial slot on Advantage, so that another student can make use of it, and email leap@salford.ac.uk, so that we can inform your tutor to rearrange your 1-2-1.
Bespoke LEAP Courses
The LEAP team may be able to offer bespoke courses to Programme Leaders who request them for their students, as part of their academic programme.
Please contact LEAP@salford.ac.uk for more information.
LEAP Practical Academic Writing Course
(LEAP) is offering a new five-week course on practical Academic Writing skills for all students whose native language is not English.
If this is something you are interested in, please book your place using the links below.
Please only book onto one slot.
Book your place.
Places are limited and will be offered on a first-come, first-served basis.
If you wish to cancel your place, please email LEAP@salford.ac.uk .
LEAP is a service directed primarily at international students, but we have collated below resources which may be useful to members of staff.
Wordscope
British Council - Learn English online
TED: Ideas worth spreading
All LEAP sessions are bookable through the Advantage system.
Sessions are completely free of charge for current University of Salford students!
Please attend every session that you have booked onto, unless you have a valid reason for absence (in which case please cancel your booking via Advantage).
Please be aware that we may have to cancel, suspend, or terminate a session if any circumstances beyond our control prevent or delay its delivery (including but not limited to staff shortage) or if participant numbers fall below a sustainable/viable level.
By completing your booking, you are deemed to accept these terms and conditions.
Please email any queries you have to the LEAP administration team: LEAP@salford.ac.uk .
We aim to respond to all queries as soon as possible.
Have you attended any of our LEAP sessions?
We'd love to hear your feedback!

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/skills:
Resources to help you achieve your study goals.
Starting in September?
Complete our course to get ready to learn at university.
Get ready for next year.
Assess your skills.
Create a personalised action plan.
Develop your professional, technical and creative skills with LinkedIn Learning.
Develop your study, research, digital and numeracy skills.
We've put together an A-Z to help you quickly find the Skills services you need...
Communicating in an academic style through the written word is a skill you will need to develop to get good grades throughout your...
Get help and guidance with the fundamental maths and numeracy skills relevant to your course and vocational area.
We've put together a helpful list of the key IT and digital resources you'll need.
We offer a wide range of academic skills workshops delivered online and in-person on campus.
Make an appointment to get specialist help with your academic skills needs.
Complete this contact form to send a question to your School's learning support team.
They will respond to the email address you provide.
APA 7th edition is our official Harvard referencing scheme and the main referencing style in use at the University.
Law students should use the OSCOLA referencing style and History students should use Chicago.
Develop your academic skills by attending a skills workshop .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/admin-essentials/bank-holiday-opening-hours:
Most university buildings are closed on bank holidays.
Some of our available services and support also change.
For details about upcoming bank holidays and changes to our facilities and services, please see below.
For services that normally open on weekends, please see details below.
If the service you are looking for is not listed below, it is closed during bank holidays and does not usually offer services on weekends.
You can still access our digital resources and self-serve information on our website.
Most campus buildings are closed - except for Clifford Whitworth Library.
If you are a postgraduate research student who needs to access labs in Cockcroft or Newton, you can make direct arrangements with your school.
Please make sure you bring your student ID card with you as any available buildings will be on swipe access only.
Ensure you have downloaded SafeZone for any urgent updates or security needs.
Clifford Whitworth Library is open 24/7 for all study needs during the bank holiday, however:
MediaCity Library, The Cube and Allerton are all closed during bank holidays.
The full range of digital Library resources are still available during this period.
These can be accessed directly via the resource section of the library or through your reading lists .
Business and access resumes as usual on the next working day.
Find out more about opening hours on the Library website.
Contact the Library with any questions by emailing library@salford.ac.uk .
The askUS enquiries service is closed on bank holidays.
You can self-serve information during this period by visiting our website or email askUS via askus@salford.ac.uk The team will respond to these queries from the next working day.
Visit our askUS pages for information about opening hours and how to get in touch, it is updated to reflect upcoming bank holidays.
The Service Desk is closed on bank holidays.
All queries can be logged via the Service Portal and will be picked up the next working day.
School Offices are closed on bank holidays.
Any emails received during this period will be picked up the next working day:
Our Student Support team doesn't work on bank holidays, but you can access support in the following ways:
Visit our eat and drink section about opening hours, it is updated to reflect upcoming bank holidays.
The Faith Centre is usually closed during bank holidays with some exceptions around major religious dates.
Visit our Faith page for full details, it is updated to reflect upcoming bank holidays.
The Faith Centre is open to students and staff only, not community members, and you need your ID card to access the space.
The sports centre is usually closed on bank holidays, reopening the next working day at the usual time.
Visit the sports centre for opening hours and class information.
Atmosphere and the Coffee Hut are usually closed on bank holidays but may be open dependent on the time of year.
Find more information about opening hours on the Students' Union and keep up to date by following @salfordAKB and @SalfordCoffeeHut on Instagram.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campus/estates/car-parking:
There are improvement works currently taking place across our campuses and around Salford which may cause delays to your journey, especially if you travel by car.
Please allow extra time for your journey, and take a look at our travel updates page to see more about current and upcoming works and how they might impact you.
You can also visit the travel page to find alternative transport options for getting here by train, bus, bike and e-scooter.
You must have a valid parking session, a pay and display ticket, or display a valid Blue Badge on arrival when parking on any of our campus car parks.
Motor vehicles (including motor cycles, motor scooters and mopeds) may be parked at the university only in the official car parks and then only in the spaces marked out for parking.
There are a number of disabled parking bays in every car park across campus.
Find out more about accessibility on campus .
All car park users are expected to observe the university’s parking restrictions.
Parking restrictions and penalties are displayed on notices across the university estate and also in the car parking policy.
Failure to adhere to this policy is likely to result in the issue of a Parking Charge Notice (PCN).
Please be vigilant when making payments via QR codes or ticket machines – only use official links and on-site devices.
A small number of incidents of fraud have been reported by parking authorities in the South of England.
If you notice anything suspicious, please report it to Estates-SupportTeam@salford.ac.uk .
Visitors are encouraged to travel to the university by public transport where possible.
Information on travel and electric vehicle charging can be found on our Environmental Sustainability Travel page.
Any complaints or queries regarding registration or vehicle parking on university property should be emailed to estates-supportteam@salford.ac.uk .
Car parking charges
Car parking policy
Campus map and directions
Access the ParkUs website to pay for your parking online.
You can also add the ParkUs website to your mobile device's home screen to allow easy access, similar to using an app.
How to get ParkUs for your mobile:
Students and staff members need to log in using their university email address to access the lower rates.
Please note that Frederick Road car park is closed for approximately six months from 27 May 2025 due to the construction of a multi-storey carpark.
Disabled parking spaces are still available and 36 new disabled parking spaces have been added .
Please find more information on our Travel Updates and Building Works webpage .
If you are a Blue Badge holder you are advised to register your vehicle at the Maxwell Building reception.
Blue Badge holders who use a motor vehicle to enable them to travel to and from the university, are exempt from any car parking fees, and you must display your Blue Badge clearly on your vehicle at all times.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campus/eat-and-drink:
Whether you need a quick bite to eat while you’re on the go or you fancy a filling sit-down meal, we’ve got a wide range of options that cater to a variety of needs.
Hospitality services
Why eat with us?
We know the importance of providing food and drink that is tasty, good value for money, ethically and sustainably sourced and nutritional.
Also, no matter which campus you're on, there's always a food and drink spot nearby.
At the University of Salford, there's a range of cafés, restaurants, and quick stop options to choose from whether you're looking for something warm and filling, healthy and fresh, or if you're in need of a sweet fix.
Vegan, vegetarian, gluten-free, and halal options are available at every location.
Eat and Drink on Peel Park Campus
Eat and Drink on Frederick Road Campus
Eat and Drink on MediaCity Campus
Refill stations for water bottles are available across campus, meaning you can stay hydrated while also helping the planet by avoiding single-use plastic bottles.
Deals, discounts and events
Whether you require catering for a working lunch, or a full day's conference, we provide personalised packages to suit your needs.
Choose from a selection of sandwiches, international food buffets, dishes that take a nod to our Salfood roots, and more.
The journey your food goes on to arrive on your plate is just as important to us as the meals themselves.
When sourcing suppliers, picking our ovens, and tackling food waste, we've prioritised ethics and sustainability at every stage.
Have you got a suggestion on how we can improve?
Did you really enjoy one of our dishes?
We'd love to hear from you!
Share your thoughts on your experience by emailing estates-catering@salford.ac.uk .
Follow us on X (formerly Twitter)

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/money/salford-inspire:
Salford Inspire is an online store available to University of Salford students.
We use Inspire to provide bursaries to students but you do not need to receive a bursary to create an Inspire account and use the online store.
Salford Inspire is the store delivering our financial support bursaries to help with the cost of living.
You will receive an email from customer.service@salford-inspire.co.uk if you are eligible for an award.
You will also receive an email from the same address if an account has been created for you in preparation for receiving an award.
Please do not email this address with queries about your eligibility.
Find enquiries support for relevant bursaries on the Student Hub.
You can find more information about the financial support we are offering to students on the Student Hub.
The Salford Inspire scheme gives most undergraduate students £150 per year of your undergraduate degree to spend in the Inspire online store.
The scheme runs on an external website at salford-inspire.co.uk .
Log in with your normal student details to find deals on things like bikes, stationery, textbooks, clothing and footwear, memberships to University societies, books, technology and more.
The credit is non-transferrable and is not redeemable as cash.
Have more of your questions, including eligibility conditions, answered on the Inspire website .
Eligibility
You can view full eligibility criteria on the Inspire website .
Please note, students undertaking a degree apprenticeship are not eligible for the award.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/current-students/student-voice:
We believe in the power of collaboration and the importance of every student's voice.
Your feedback, insights and ideas are crucial in shaping the future of our university.
At the University of Salford, we believe that student voice is more than just a voice - it's a conversation.
We are dedicated to listening, engaging, and responding to your feedback in all its forms.
We are here to ensure that every student's voice is heard and valued, helping turn your ideas into real and meaningful change.
By keeping you informed and involved, we create a space for open dialogue to improve our university.
"Together Let's Make Change" is our commitment to build a welcoming and active community where your voice matters.
By making yourself heard, you can lead meaningful improvements and lasting positive change with us.
On this page discover how you can get involved, share your thoughts, and be the reason for change.
Together, let's build a better, brighter, and more responsive University of Salford.
There are many ways to get involved.
Whether it's through surveys, focus groups, or joining student communities, your feedback helps shape our university's future.
Plus, you can earn rewards like prize draws and paid opportunities, making it even more rewarding to share your thoughts.
Share your thoughts and experiences by taking part in student surveys.
These surveys cover various aspects of university life, such as Welcome Week, campus facilities, and more.
Keep an eye on your email for survey invitations and opportunities to win prizes for your participation.
Let us know how your modules are going through Module Review Surveys.
These surveys are your opportunity to tell us what's going well and what could be improved, helping to enhance the academic experience for everyone.
You’ll receive an email inviting you to complete your Module Review Surveys towards the end of your modules.
Student representatives are the people who represent your academic interests and can change and improve your life at the university.
Student representatives are coordinated by the Students’ Union .
Together we've changed highlights the positive impact of student voices in shaping our university.
Read our recent success stories where your feedback has led to real improvements across campus.
In response to feedback from last year’s welcome survey, the...
At the University of Salford we know that climate change and...
In responses to your feedback, the School of Health and Society...
In response to your feedback, the Events Team has introduced key...
Welcome Week is an exciting time for both new and returning...
Your library team has made a number of improvements in response...
Answers to our most frequently asked questions about Student Voice and how to get involved.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics:
Our askUS staff can give you the right advice when you need it most.
We cover a lot of things at askUS – take a look at our topics below to jump straight to the information you need.
askUS are your dedicated specialist support service, your go-to people for when you're not sure where to start and your first port of call when you need to talk to someone.
We're here to help you be successful at university and maximise your potential.
This area covers all information regarding more general support including faith, health services and issues relating to Brexit.
Here you'll find all the information to help find accommodation and settle you in.
Your admin essentials are everything you need to know about organising yourself for university.
Here you’ll find information on key study dates, registration, paying for University, timetabling and document requests.
We’re here to help you make the most of your skills and experience, preparing you for part-time jobs, placements, graduate opportunities and finding your perfect career path.
We work with you to ensure you have fair and equal access to your education through support with adjustments, accessibility and assessments.
We are committed to and strive for equality of opportunity for all of our students and staff, and recognise and celebrate your diversity.
Find out more to see how it might affect you.
Whether you are a current student requiring immigration and visa advice or are a prospective student requiring information on applying for your visa, we have information and resources to help you.
Coming to university is a big financial commitment and it is important to manage your money carefully.
Life as a student at Salford can be more than just studying.
Here you can read about all the opportunities available including events/activities, our many food outlets and how to study abroad.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply-as-an-international-student:
If you are interested in applying to study at Salford and you are from overseas, you should read the information on this page carefully.
Read the information below according to what level of study you want to apply for and find further information at the bottom of the page to support you.
For most of our courses, you’ll need to complete our online application form.
Search our list of available courses to find the programme you are interested in and register via the portal.
Our courses are very popular, so you should check this page regularly for updates on what is available for the intake of your choice.
If you have your supporting information ready (for example personal statement and transcripts), the form should take 20 minutes to complete.
If you don’t have these documents to hand you can save your application and come back to it later.
Before applying, please take a look at our Application Guidance for information on what we’re looking for, and for details on how to use our application form.
You will need to submit your applications through UCAS .
To apply for these courses please complete either our application form for Level Five And Six or Level Seven and email to applications@salford.ac.uk .
To apply, please download our Postgraduate Application Form and Agency Sponsorship Form and email it to applications@salford.ac.uk .
If you need help applying, please contact us on +44 (0)161 295 4545 , or email your enquiry to:
You will need to submit your application to us through UCAS .
UCAS is an online application system that allows you to apply for up to five courses.
This could be five courses at the University of Salford, or five courses at different institutions.
Search our list of available courses to find the programme you are interested in and make a note of the UCAS Course Code at the bottom of the page.
You can also search for courses in UCAS when making your application.
Ensure that you choose the correct course when submitting your application and that you clearly enter the University of Salford’s institution code.
Our institution code is ‘S03’.
Applications to the BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies (top-up) are made directly to the University via our online application form.
Visit our guidance page for details of how to use the online application form.
If you are looking to apply for a Foundation Year course, please see our guidance for our International Foundation Year before signing up to UCAS.
If you need help applying, you can contact us on +44 (0)161 295 4545 or email your questions to applications@salford.ac.uk .
The International Foundation Year will help you get onto a bachelor’s degree if you do not have the right qualifications to do so yet.
We offer multiple pathways onto our undergraduate courses.
Before applying, please search our list of available courses to find the one that interests you.
When you know what you want to study, you will need to complete our online application form .
If you have your supporting information ready (for example your personal statement and academic transcripts), the form should take 20 minutes to complete.
Before applying, please read our Application Guidance to find out what information and documents you need to supply and how to use our application form.
If you need help applying, please contact us on +44 (0)161 295 4545 or email your enquiry to applications@salford.ac.uk .
A research degree offers you the chance to shape your own learning by researching a specific topic you are passionate about.
The length and structure of a research degree depends on the pathway and chosen course.
Read our guide for information about the different options available.
You will also need to see our list of available courses to find the programme you are interested in.
Before applying, you will need to gather some information as the process is based around your research proposal.
You can find additional guidance about how to shape your proposal along with contact information to get the application process started on our dedicated Postgraduate Research page.
The University of Salford offers a British Council accredited Pre-sessional English course to help you improve your English language skills to study for a postgraduate or undergraduate degree at the University of Salford.
To apply for this course, you will need to complete our online application form .
If you have your supporting information ready (for example your passport and transcripts) the form should take 20 minutes to complete.
You can find out what qualifications we accept from your country by looking up your country page below.
On this page, you can also find details of your local education specialists who can help you with your application.
If you’d like help with your application, you can speak to one of our approved education consultants (agents) which you can find on your country page .
They can explain our courses, provide information about living in Salford and Manchester, help you complete your application, and give visa advice.
Our approved agents must offer fair and transparent support from your first enquiry to enrolment.
You should not be charged by an agent to apply to the University of Salford.
Some agents may offer additional services on a paid-for basis, but our approved agents are paid by the University when students they support successfully enrol.
You do not have to use an education consultant to apply.
If do you, we recommend reading the Study UK's guide to selecting a good education agent.
to help you make the best decision.
If you have any questions, concerns or feedback about applying through one of our approved agents, please contact us at salford-international@salford.ac.uk
Your feedback is welcome and will not affect your application in any way.
All our courses are taught and assessed in English, so we want to make sure you have the language skills you need to succeed from the start.
As such, we ask all of our international students to demonstrate a level of English proficiency.
English language requirements are shown on individual course pages.
The course pages show the requirement as IELTS, however, a full range of the qualifications we accept can be found below.
You will need a visa to study in the UK.
Once you have an offer to study with us, you can apply for your visa.
Find out more about visas here, so you know what you need to do before you apply.
When you apply depends on what course, intake or level you are interested in.
Check our application deadlines for more information.
Visit our frequently asked questions page to get more support with making an application and the application process.
Listen to our handy tips for writing a personal statement to help you get started.
If you are applying for any of the below courses, click on the link to discover specific personal statement guidance:
If you've already submitted your application, you can find out more about getting your offer, visas, accommodation and more by visiting I've applied what's next.
We try to make a decision on your application within ten working days, although sometimes it can take longer, particularly during busy periods.
If you applied to an International Foundation year, postgraduate, or Pre-sessional English course we will notify you of the outcome by email, so please ensure that the email address you provide is valid and current.
If successful, you will receive a letter outlining our Terms and Conditions, and details of any conditions that you are expected to meet before you can register.
If you applied to an undergraduate course or through UCAS, we will notify you of the outcome through the UCAS Hub .
UCAS will usually send you a text or email to let you know of any changes.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/order-a-prospectus:
Thanks for your interest in studying with us.
We just need a few details from you, and we’ll be able to send you a copy of our study guide, as well as invitations to our Open Days, insights into university life from our students and all our latest news.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/foundation-year/international-foundation-year:
Full-time
One year
September 2025
Our International Foundation Year course will prepare you to succeed in your undergraduate degree.
It’s ideal for international students who do not have the right qualifications to get onto their undergraduate degree yet.
We are ranked as a Centre of Excellence (El Gazette, 2023), so you will get some of the best language teaching and support in all the UK when you study with us.
The International Foundation Year programme is especially designed for international students.
It focuses on teaching you the English and subject-specific skills that you need to be successful in an undergraduate degree at a UK university.
As the education systems are different in other parts of the world, our foundation courses will ensure you are as prepared as possible to achieve your best in your degree.
Once you pass our International Foundation Year with the right grade, you can choose to progress onto almost any of our undergraduate courses.
students accepted
English is not your first language, and you want to study for an undergraduate degree at university in the United Kingdom.
You have finished high school in your own country but don't yet have the qualifications to go straight on a UK university programme.
You want a guaranteed entry onto the linked undergraduate degree course if you get the right grade.
The International foundation year is the first year of a full-time, undergraduate degree course which lasts for four years in total.
When you pass the International Foundation Year with the right grade, you will automatically progress on to one of our undergraduate degrees; you have over 80 to choose from.
What will I learn?
You will develop your English and study skills and learn two subjects related to the degree you want to study.
You will develop the following skills:
When can I start?
All courses start in September however some courses have the option to start in January.
See more information below by clicking on the box "What degrees are available with International Foundation Year".
Please note, that no classes take place on public holidays.
The only scheduled public holiday at this time is on Monday 25 August 2025.
Art and Design
When you study the Art and Design IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take in the first year of your School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology programme.
If you opt for the Art and Design IFY you will study the following four modules:
English and Study Skills 40 credits Creative Risk Taking 20 credits Credits Digital Media Applications 20 credits Creative Practice Major Project 40 credits
You will have a variety of class types, from small group tutorials, to individual tutorials and group workshops.
Classes for English are streamed according to your previous subject knowledge so you will be with people at your level.
You will have a maximum class size of 18 students for English.
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessment and project work.
The following degrees are available with the Art and Design IFY: BA (Hons) Animation BA (Hons) Costume Design BA (Hons) Fashion Design BA (Hons) Fashion Image Making & Styling BA (Hons) Graphic Design BA (Hons) Fine Art BA (Hons) Film, TV and Stage Design BA (Hons) Interior Design BSc (Hons) Games Design and Production BA (Hons) Photography BA (Hons) Television and Radio Production
The Art, Design and Media IFY can only be joined in September.
Biological Sciences
When you study the Biological Sciences IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your Environment and Life Sciences programme.
If you opt for the Biological Sciences IFY  you will study the following five modules:
English and Study Skills 40 credits Credits Biological Principles 20 credits Scientific Method 20 credits Science for Health 20 credits Chemical Principles 20 credits
You will have various class types, from large lectures to small group tutorials.
You will also have laboratory classes to prepare you for your Undergraduate programme.
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessments, in-class mini-tests, and project work.
The following degrees are available with the Biological Sciences IFY:
BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical Science
BSc (Hons) Biological Sciences
BSc (Hons) Biochemistry
BSc (Hons) Biochemistry with Studies in USA
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science
BSc (Hons) Human Biology and Infectious Diseases
The Biological Science IFY can only be joined in September.
Business
When you study the Business IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your Salford Business School programme.
If you opt for the Business IFY you will study the following three modules:
English and Study Skills 40 credits Mathematics 40 credits Economics for Business 40 credits
You will have a variety of class types, from large lectures to small group tutorials.
Classes for English and Maths are streamed according to your previous subject knowledge so you will be with people at your level.
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessments, in-class mini-tests, and case studies for Economics for Business.
The following degrees are available with the Business IFY:
BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance BSc (Hons) Business Management with Economics BSc (Hons) Business Management with Finance BSc (Hons) Business Management BSc (Hons) Business Management with Law BSc (Hons) Business Management with Sport BSc (Hons) Business Information Technology BSc (Hons) Business with Human Resource Management BSc (Hons) International Business Management BSc (Hons) Business Management with Marketing BSc (Hons) Business with Supply Chain and Project Management
The Business IFY can be joined at two entry points, in January and in September.
Built Environment
When you study the Built Environment IFY, you will be well prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your built environment programme.
If you opt for the Built Environment IFY, you will study the following three modules:
English and Study Skills 40 credits Mathematics 40 credits Physics 40 credits
The following degrees are available with the Built Environment IFY:
BSc (Hons) Architecture BSc (Hons) Architectural Design and Technology BSc (Hons) Architectural Engineering BSc (Hons) Building Surveying BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management BSc (Hons) Interior Architecture BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying BSc (Hons) Real Estate Development and Management
The Built Environment IFY has two entry points and can be joined in January or September.
Computer Science
When you study the Computer Science IFY, you will be well-prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your computing or mathematics degree course.
If you opt for the Computer Science IFY you will study four modules:
English and Study Skills - 40 credits Mathematics 1 and 2  - 40 credits Computer Programming - 20 credits Computer Systems - 20 credits
During your studies, you will experience a variety of class types, from large lectures to small group tutorials and workshops.
Classes for English and Maths are streamed according to your previous subject knowledge, so you will be with people at your level.
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessments, in-class mini tests, and project work for Computer Science modules.
The following degrees are available with the Computer Science IFY:
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Cyber Security
BSc (Hons) Media Technology (including Mobile & Internet Television pathway)
BSc (Hons) Software Engineering
The Computer Science IFY can only be joined in September.
Engineering and Physics
When you study the Engineering and Physics IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take in the first year of your Computer, Science and Engineering or Built Environment programme.
If you opt for this IFY you will study three modules outlined below:
You will also have laboratory classes to prepare you for your undergraduate programme.
You will have a maximum class size of 18 students for English, and 24 for the laboratory.
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessments, and in-class mini-tests, and you will produce laboratory reports for physics.
The following degrees are available with this IFY:
BEng / MEng Acoustical and Audio Engineering BEng / MEng Aeronautical Engineering BEng Aircraft Engineering with Pilot Studies BEng / MEng Civil Engineering BEng Electronic Engineering BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering BSc (Hons) Mathematics BEng / MEng Mechanical Engineering BSc (Hons) Physics BSc (Hons) Sound Engineering & Production
The Engineering and Physics IFY is available to start in September or in January.
Environment
When you study the Environment IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your Environment and Life Sciences programme.
If you opt for the Environment IFY you will study the following five modules:
English and Study Skills 40 credits Biological Principles 20 credits Earth Processes 20 credits Environmental Conservation 20 credits Science for Health 20 credits
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessment, in-class mini tests, and project work.
The following degrees are available with the Environment IFY:
BSc (Hons) Environmental Management BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation with Zoo Biology BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation BSc (Hons) Zoology
The Environment IFY can only be joined in September.
Health (Prosthetics and Orthotics)
When you study the Health (Prosthetics and Orthotics) IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your Prosthetics and Orthotics programme.
If you opt for the Health (Prosthetics and Orthotics) IFY you will study the following four modules:
English and Study Skills 40 Credits Mathematics 40 Credits Physics 20 Credits Biological Principles 20 Credits
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessment, in-class mini tests, and you will produce laboratory reports for Physics.
The following degree is available with the Health (Prosthetics and Orthotics) IFY:
BSc (Hons) Prosthetics and Orthotics
The Health (Prosthetics and Orthotics) IFY can only be joined in September.
Health
When you study the Health IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your Health programme.
If you opt for the Health IFY you will study the following four modules:
English and Study Skills 40 credits Credits Mathematics 40 credits Science for Health 20 credits Communication for Health 20 credits
The following degrees are available with the Health IFY:
BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy BSc (Hons) Podiatry BSc (Hons) Psychology BSc (Hons) Psychology and Counselling Studies BSc (Hons) Psychology and Criminology BSc (Hons) Psychology of Sport BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science
The Health IFY can only be joined in September.
Law
When you study the Law IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your Salford Business School programme.
If you opt for the Law IFY you will study the following three modules:
English and Study Skills (40 Credits) Economics for Business (40 credits) Law, Politics, and Society (20 credits) Law, Society, and Behaviour (20 credits)
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessments, in-class mini-tests, and case studies for Economics for Business and Introduction to English Law and Systems.
The following degrees are available with the Law IFY:
LLB (Hons) Law * LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology *
The Law IFY can be joined in September or January.
*This course requires a higher entry level in the first year of the degree.
Music
When you study the Music IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take on the first year of your Music programme.
If you opt for the Music IFY you will study the following five modules:
English and Study Skills 40 credits Introduction to Music Theory 20 credits Music Theory & Compositional Techniques 20 credits Foundation Musicianship Skills 20 credits Foundation Performance Studies 20 credits
You will have a variety of class types, from small group tutorials to band work, individual tutorials and group workshops.
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessment, performances, and project work.
The following degrees are available with the Music IFY:
BA (Hons) Music: Creative Music Technology BA (Hons) Music: Popular Music and Recording
The Music IFY can only be joined in September.
Politics
When you study the Politics IFY, you will be very well prepared for the modules you will take in the first year of your School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology programme or your Salford Business School Programme.
There are different kinds of exams across the modules, ranging from traditional end-of-year assessments to continuous assessments, in-class mini-tests, and case studies
You will study the four modules below:
English and Study Skills        40 credits Economics for Business        40 credits Law, Politics and Society       20 credits Law, Society and Behaviour 20 credits
The following degrees are available with the Politics IFY:
BA (Hons) Contemporary History and Politics
BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics
This course can be started in September or January .
Please note that it may not be possible to deliver the full list of options every year as this will depend on factors such as how many students choose a particular option.
Exact modules may also vary in order to keep content current.
When accepting your offer of a place to study on this programme, you should be aware that not all optional modules will be running each year.
Your tutor will be able to advise you as to the available options on or before the start of the programme.
Whilst the University tries to ensure that you are able to undertake your preferred options, it cannot guarantee this.
This is a full-time, two-semester course, with at least 15 hours of lessons a week plus coursework to do in your own time.
You will learn in various ways that will be like how you’ll be taught for your degree, including lectures, small classes, seminars, tutorials, workshops, or laboratories.
Most teaching takes place face-to-face on campus and some sessions are online.
How will I be tested?
There will be exams at the end of each semester.
You will be tested both on your exam performance and on your classwork and homework.
What will my timetable look like?
Emily Feltham
BA (Hons) Finance and Accounting with International Foundation Year
Ali Aljafar
BA (Hons) Interior Design with International Foundation Year
Lina Mohamed
BSc (Hons) Psychology
Salford Languages is a centre for international study and language learning, offering a range of British Council accredited English language courses and foreign language programmes to current and prospective University of Salford students.
Salford Languages is ranked in the top 10 best University English Language Centres in the UK according to the EL Gazette in 2023.
You will learn in our beautiful and modern Peel Park campus, which is in the city of Salford, but just minutes from Manchester city centre.
In between your classes you can enjoy relaxing in the beautiful park or next to the river, which is right on campus.
After class you can head into Manchester which is known for its exciting culture, arts and music scene and a thriving international food scene.
We have invested millions into providing modern learning facilities to make learning relevant to your career.
Where you learn also depends on your course.
Explore our facilities .
Our Language Resource Centre has computers, books, and study space to help with your language learning.
You can use special software to help develop your language skills, and it’s also a great place to sit down for some quiet study time between classes.
Other useful links:
After completing the International Foundation Year, you will have access to almost all our undergraduate degrees.
Students who have previously studied our International Foundation Year, and now finished their undergraduate degree, now have exciting careers in a range of industries.
This includes working at the following multinational companies:
As a University of Salford student, you can use our Careers Service from your first day to help you towards your future career.
When you graduate you will join our community of over 180,000 alumni in all corners of the world, who are making a positive impact in their societies.
We will offer you lifelong careers support to help you succeed.
Find out more about careers support .
English language requirements
International and non-native speakers of English will be required to have a minimum of UKVI IELTS Academic of 4.5 (with no less than 4.0 in any band).
Academic entry criteria
You may need to complete a foundation year before you enrol for a UK university degree if… •  You have not completed your education in the English Schooling System •  You have studied in a country with fewer than 13 years of school •  You have not taken A-levels or the International Baccalaureate
You should also visit your country page , to find the details of what other qualifications we accept from your country.
The minimum age to study this course is 16 years old.
Support for students under 18.
Subject-specific entry criteria: You can check the entry criteria for your chosen subject pathway:
Please note, we accept International Baccalaureate for entry to our International Foundation Year, as long as it meets the academic requirements below:
Please visit our fees and funding page for information on instalment plans and deposits.
You can also find details about course refunds .
You should also consider further costs which may include books, stationery, printing, binding and general subsistence on trips and visits.
For more information about additional cost, please see the following:
Living costs
Money advice for international students
Managing your money
International Foundation Year students will have to pay a deposit to secure their place.
Please check your offer letter for the deposit amount you will be required to pay to get your unconditional offer.
Applications for our International Foundation Year must be completed online.
Before beginning your application, please read our Guidance notes .
There are limited places available on the International Foundation Year programme.
To help ensure that you get a place on the programme, please apply as soon as possible and, if you are offered admission, you should complete the conditions of your offer as soon as possible.
January 2026
September 2026
If you need to improve your English language skills to study for a postgraduate or...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/scholarships:
We are proud to have supported over 2,500 international students with scholarships and bursaries in 2022.
You can find all our current scholarships below which offer a discount on your tuition fees.
Chevening scholarships
Chevening is the UK Government’s international awards scheme aimed at developing global leaders.
Learn more about Chevening scholarships
NCUK scholarships
We are an owner-member of the Northern Consortium of UK universities (NCUK).
NCUK delivers pathway programmes that lead to degrees at member universities.
To support students who progress from NCUK, we offer a number of high value scholarships to outstanding applicants for undergraduate or master's programmes.
Learn more about NCUK scholarships
Commonwealth scholarships
Commonwealth Scholarships enable talented and motivated students to gain the knowledge and skills required for sustainable development.
These scholarships are funded by the UK Department for International Development (DFID) and offered through the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK (CSC).
Learn more about Commonwealth scholarships
Salford/EATL Data Science scholarships
We have joined together with Ethical Advanced Technologies Limited (EATL) Innovation Hub in Bangladesh to support students from Bangladesh who aspire to contribute to the development of their country through data science and AI.
We have 6 part-funded scholarships to support students MSc Data Science students from Bangladesh.
At least 3 of these will be awarded to female applicants to support our Women in STEM agenda.
Learn about the Salford/EATL Data Science scholarships
Our Global Gold Excellence Scholarship offers an automatic discount on tuition fees to all eligible applicants.
Learn more about the Global Gold Excellence Scholarship
Our Global Silver Excellence Scholarship offers an automatic discount on tuition fees to all eligible applicants.
Learn more about the Global Silver Excellence Scholarship
Loyalty discount
If you have completed an eligible programme of study here, you may be entitled to a discount of 20% off your fees if you take another programme with us.
For more details please see the information on our loyalty discount .
Please note, you may apply for the loyalty discount if you have already been awarded a scholarship, however, in line with our terms and conditions , you can only receive one scholarship or discount (the one with the highest value).
Prompt payment discount
If you pay your fees in full, either on before or at enrolment, you can receive a prompt payment discount of 3%.
This is applied to the net fee remaining after any scholarship has been applied.
Before applying for an international scholarship, please read our terms and conditions .
Unless specified, our international scholarships are available to full-time, on-campus, self-funded students who have been assessed as international students for fee purposes and are applying to the first year of study for an undergraduate bachelor’s or postgraduate taught master’s programme.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/your-country:
For country-specific information, including entry requirements, details of education consultants (agents) and information about events near you, please select the country you are applying from using the list below.
Our approved education consultants can explain our courses, provide information about living in Salford and Manchester, help you complete your application, and give visa advice.
We work hard to ensure our approve agents offer fair and transparent support from your first enquiry to enrolment.
You are do not have to use an education consultant to apply.
If you have any questions, concerns or feedback about applying through one of our approved agents, please contact us at Salford-International@salford.ac.uk Your feedback is welcome and will not affect your application in any way.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/fees-and-funding:
Tuition fees are paid for each year of study.
For international students, our full-time courses starting in 2026-27 cost from £14,400 to £21,540 depending on the course and level of study.
The exact fees for all undergraduate and postgraduate taught courses are shown on our course pages .
Fees for postgraduate research degrees can be viewed on our postgraduate research pages .
All self-funded students studying an international foundation year, undergraduate or postgraduate programme, are required to pay a deposit of £5,500.
This amount must be paid and have reached the university before you can get an unconditional offer and begin the process for getting your CAS .
This deposit payment will be deducted from your tuition fees owed for the year.
If you have applied for our International Foundation Year, the deposit amount you need to pay may be different.
We offer US students a waiver on the deposit requirement once they have been approved for a US loan.
If you are self-funding your studies, you have the option to pay your tuition fees in full or you could pay in instalments (starting the month after the course commencement date).
If you choose to pay in full, we offer a prompt payment discount of 3% on the net fee remaining after any scholarship has been applied.
If you choose to pay your fees in instalments, you will pay in either 5 or 7 consecutive monthly instalments, depending on what course you are studying.
For more information, please visit our askUS website (see the section on self-funding students).
You should only use our recommended payment methods to pay your fees, as we follow strict guidelines to keep your money safe.
Find out more about avoiding money scams .
For a step-by-step guide to paying your tuition fees, watch our video below.
If you are expecting an external organisation like an embassy, your employer or a government organisation to pay some or all of your tuition fees, you must send us an official letter from your sponsor at the beginning of each academic year.
For more information, please visit our askUS website (see the section on sponsored students).
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries to support high achieving international students.
Explore our international scholarships .
You can also get a prompt payment discount of 3% if you pay your fees in full, during or before registration.
The discount is applied to the net fee remaining after any scholarship has been applied.
If you’re a University of Salford graduate, your postgraduate tuition fees could be discounted by 20%.
For more information, please contact sa-tuitionfees@salford.ac.uk .
We advise students to budget a minimum of £10,224* for each academic year** of undergraduate and postgraduate study, in addition to tuition fees.
The Home Office ( UKVI ) has set the amount of maintenance funds you need to have available, this is £1,136* per month for living costs if you are studying outside London or anywhere else in the UK for the majority of your study.
This amount should cover accommodation, food, entertainment, transport, books, insurance and other living expenses.
As part of your visa application, you will also be required to pay an Immigration Health Surcharge of £1035*.
This will allow you to benefit from health care services whilst in the UK.
*For the most up-to-date information about maintenance and visa costs visit Home Office Student Visas .
**Please note, an academic year is 9 months
Of course, the living costs mentioned above are a guide, and some students will require more than this, it depends on your lifestyle.
Learn more about typical costs of living in Salford and Manchester .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/visa:
If you have an offer to study one of our courses and are applying from overseas, this page will tell you how to get a Student Visa.
Or, if you are applying for a visa from inside the UK, or are a returning student, you can find relevant information on our askUS pages instead.
Most international students will require a Student Visa (formally called Tier 4 Visa) to study in the UK, including students from the EU if they have not applied to the EU settlement scheme by 30 June 2021.*
You can find out more about Student Visas from the Home Office , and more information and a video further down this page.
To be eligible for a student visa, you will need the following:
STEP 1 - Check that all your personal information on your unconditional offer letter is correct e.g.
your name, passport number.
If any of your details have changed or are not correct, please email salford-cas@salford.ac.uk to let us know.
You should include any evidence (e.g.
copy of a new passport) and use ‘CAS correction’ in the subject header.
STEP 2 - Watch the below video to find out how you can apply for your CAS and what you will need.
You will only need to request your CAS and upload documents if you are from a country that requires you to show the Home Office proof that you can financially support yourself in the UK.
Remember, as soon as you have an unconditional offer, you are ready to apply for your CAS.
STEP 3 - Wait for us to email you with further instructions about how to obtain your CAS .
You should also read this information from the Home Office about what documents you need to get your visa and prepare your documents accordingly.
STEP 4 - Read the email from our CAS Assessment Team with instructions on how to get your CAS.
Depending on what country you are from, we may ask you to upload documents to show that you can support yourself financially whilst in the UK.
It is essential to make sure that, firstly, you upload the correct documentation when you request your CAS, and secondly, that your documents are clearly visible.
Failure to do this will cause delays in us processing your CAS.
You can find detailed information about how your documents should meet the financial requirement from the Home Office's Appendix Finance .
Alternatively, if you are a ‘British national overseas’ or if you are from one of these countries or territories , then you will not be required to supply financial information to the CAS team, so you will not need to do anything else and can proceed to step 5.
STEP 5 - Someone from our CAS Assessment Team (using the email salford-cas@salford.ac.uk) will confirm when you will get your CAS, or if you need to send further information.
If you were required to upload supporting documentation to request your CAS, you should expect to receive an automatic email to acknowledge your CAS request.
Then someone from our CAS team (using email salford-cas@salford.ac.uk ) will confirm when you will get your CAS, or if you need to send any further information.
If you were not asked to submit any documents to request your CAS, then you should get your CAS within one week.
Once you get your CAS, you should apply for your visa immediately to avoid any delays.
See the next section for more information on how to do this.
You can find some frequently asked questions below which may help you.
If you don't find what you need below you can also check our CAS and visa pages for more information.
If you were required to upload financial documents to request your CAS, we will email you to confirm when you should expect to receive your CAS.
It is very important to check your unconditional offer letter to make sure that all your personal details are correct as this is the information we will use in your CAS.
If there are any changes to your details, you must notify us by email to salford-cas@salford.ac.uk and put 'CAS correction’ in the subject header so we can amend this.
Also, it’s essential to ensure that your documentation is correct and fully visible and legible when you submit your CAS request, otherwise this will cause delays to you receiving your CAS.
We will email you when it is time to request your CAS with full instructions on what you need to do.
It can take time for us to process your offer of admission including your study deposit.
So please wait for us to email you about getting your CAS.
You can email us at salford-cas@salford.ac.uk to let us know and send any corrected documentation.
You should include the details of what you submitted incorrectly on the CAS request form and what the correct information should be.
Please use "CAS corrections" as the subject title for your email.
No, you should complete your CAS request form yourself.
It is valid for 6 months from the date the University of Salford completed it.
It will expire if it is not used.
However, we advise that you use your CAS in your visa application as soon as you have your CAS, so that the financial documents you used are still valid and do not expire.
You need to meet all the conditions of your offer first, including paying your study deposit, before we can issue you with a CAS.
STEP 1 - Watch the below video to find out how to apply for your visa:
STEP 2 - Check when you need to apply for your visa.
You can apply up to 6 months before your course start date, provided you already have your CAS from the University of Salford.
For example, if your course starts in September, you can apply from March.
You should allow plenty of time, as it can take 3 weeks, or longer in busy periods, to get your visa from outside of the UK.
Check the application processing times, and make sure you apply early so that you get a decision with enough time to arrive in the UK before your course start date.
Some countries may allow you to pay an extra fee to get a quicker service.
STEP 3 - Before you make a visa application, it’s very important to refer to the most up-to-date Home Office rules and guidance .
STEP 4 - Confirm what the process is for applying for a Student Visa from your country.
You may need to make an appointment or complete the form online or comply with other requirements specific to your country.
STEP 5 - Prepare your documents.
Some of these are the same documents that we asked you to submit with your CAS request, and include:
STEP 6 - Apply online for your visa at www.gov.uk/student-visa As part of the application, you may be asked to attend your local visa application centre to provide biometric information.
You will also be required to pay some fees including:
The Immigration Health Surcharge students need to pay to access to the National Health Service in the UK is currently £776.
Please check the UK Gov website for updates: https://www.gov.uk/healthcare-immigration-application/how-much-pay
*You may find that some visa application centres also charge a “User pays fee”.
Find the latest information about fees for Student visas , including a tool to calculate how much your visa fees will cost .
Remember to add details of what dependents (your partner or children) you would like to bring with you.
Make sure you take your time and check everything on your form carefully before submitting it.
STEP 7 - Check if you need to make an appointment to provide biometric information .
STEP 8 - Prepare for your visa interview, if you are invited to one.
You may be invited to attend a visa interview before you are granted a decision.
If you are invited to an interview, it is essential that you prepare carefully for this.
The Home Office want to know that you have a genuine interest in the course.
You should check our website and attend events to find out more information about your course.
If you are using an agent, they can help you with this, or contact our team at salford-international@salford.ac.uk who can support you further.
Visa interview questions could include:
You can watch this video from one of our international students about her visa interview experience .
How long it takes to get a decision on your visa, depends on which country you are coming from.
Find out more about waiting times .
Congratulations!
UKVI have moved to a digital immigration system therefore your immigration status will be accessible online .
It is important not to arrive in the UK, until the start date shown on your entry clearance Visa.
If you arrive earlier than the date shown on your Visa, you may be refused entry to the UK or the University.
You should contact the CAS team at salford-cas@salford.ac.uk to discuss your next steps.
If you think the evidence you submitted with your visa application was sufficient and should not have been rejected, you can request an administrative review.
You can find more information about this on our askUS pages under “Home Office Decision”.
Your visa comes with responsibilities, which you will be personally accountable for.
You should read the information from our Home Office Compliance team about your responsibilities .
As we are your immigration sponsor, you will need to undertake a Right to Study Check as part of Registration to verify your immigration status to us.
You can find some frequently asked questions about Student Visas below.
Find the latest information about fees for Student visas , including a tool to calculate your visa fees .
Visa processing times vary, depending on which country you are coming from.
Read about visa waiting times .
Students are required to demonstrate that they can financially maintain themselves while studying in the UK.
You must demonstrate to the Home Office that you have held the balance of any unpaid tuition fees plus the required maintenance fees in an account for at least 28 consecutive days (or that your financial sponsor will cover these costs).
You can read the Home Office's guidance for details concerning the required format of your documents, and more detail within the Immigration Rules Appendix Finance .
The current level of funds required to prove you can maintain yourself whilst in the UK is £1,483 per month for yourself and £680 per month (each) for your dependant(s), up to a maximum of 9 months.*
If your course duration isn’t given in whole months, the number of months’ maintenance costs you are required to show will be rounded up a month (so, if your course is 3 months and 1 week long, you’ll need to show 4 months’ maintenance costs).
*You should check on the Home Office website for the latest information.
Please send us scanned copies of your refusal documentation to salford-cas@salford.ac.uk so we can discuss your options with you.
Updates for international students considering studying in the UK
The UK government recently announced some changes regarding immigration and visa rules.
Changes to immigration and visa rules:
On 4 December 2023, the Home Secretary announced changes to immigration and visa rules.
On 21 December 2023, further details were published related to changes that might affect individuals already in the UK.
The most relevant to international students looking to bring dependants to the UK, and those wanting to stay in the UK after successful completion of their studies through the graduate route visa.
You can read the changes announced on 4 December , and see more information in the Home Office’s new factsheet for further clarification on the changes.
Until the immigration rules are officially updated, current thresholds and policies remain in place.
Updates to student visa routes:
Starting from 1 January 2024, new restrictions for student visa routes are in effect.
As previously announced by the Home Office, students starting courses from 1 January 2024 onwards will only be eligible to bring dependants on the student route if their course is a PhD, other doctoral qualification, or a research-based higher degree, unless they meet the criteria of another category of student eligible to bring dependants, for example courses with government-funded scholarships.
Visit the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website for more detail on which students are eligible to bring dependents.
Recent changes to immigration rules (7 December 2023):
The Home Office introduced several changes to the immigration rules on 7 December 2023 including to the EU Settlement Scheme and visitor rules, as well as minor changes including to temporary work routes and Part 5 – working in the UK and the appendix for the innovator founder route.
A summary of these changes affecting students and their family members can be found in a news item on the UKCISA website - ‘Student update: changes to the Immigration Rules, December 2023’ .
You can also find a detailed explanation in the Explanatory Memorandum .
We hope you found this information useful.
If you have any questions about your CAS, you can get in touch with us at salford-cas@salford.ac.uk , or if you have any questions about your visa, contact us at homeofficecompliance@salford.ac.uk or call +44 (0)161 295 5000 .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/our-location:
We’re based just minutes from Manchester, which was voted the second-friendliest city in the world by Timeout (2022) .
From the diversity of cultures and friendly people to the exciting food, music, art, shopping, and sport...there’s so much to love!
Watch the video below to hear more from our international students about our fantastic location.
We’re located in Salford, a city in Greater Manchester which is in the Northwest of England.
Our main campus is just minutes away from Manchester city centre.
Travelling to and from Manchester city centre, or anywhere in the UK and abroad is super easy.
Manchester airport is only a 30-minute train ride away, and from there you can fly to hundreds of countries across the world.
You can use buses, trams, taxis, trains, e-scooters, or you could just walk.
We even have a train station right here on campus, and a free bus that connects our Peel Park campus with our MediaCity campus.
Check out the video below to discover more about Salford and the surrounding areas.
Greater Manchester celebrates people from all religions, beliefs, and backgrounds.
Over 200 different languages are spoken here, and people are very friendly.
You can find many places of worship and different religious communities in Greater Manchester and surrounding areas.
We also have a faith centre right here on campus, where you can find religious support, or friendship, no matter what you believe in.
Ho Thanh Que Anh, Vietnam
MSc Marketing
You’re spoilt for choice for sports here!
World-class football clubs Manchester United and Manchester City are easy to reach from our campus and you can also find Old Traffic Cricket Ground less than 4 km away.
As well as being home to the Etihad Stadium, Sportcity in east Manchester houses the UK National Squash Centre, Regional Tennis Centre and UK National Cycling Centre.
You could even try your hand at skiing or snowboarding at the UK’s longest indoor ski slope with real snow at Chill Factore.
Plus, you can also join one of the many sports clubs at our Students' Union .
Manchester is world-famous for its music.
You can enjoy everything from gigs and concerts with international artists, to local street performers.
Why not visit the many museums and art galleries or take a trip to the theatre?
There are several theatres to choose from, including the Lowry Theatre based right next to our MediaCity campus where you can enjoy drama, dance and comedy shows, as well as exhibitions.
Don't miss Manchester International Festival ; the world's first festival of original new work and special events.
Manchester has a thriving food scene with many different and exciting restaurants, shops and markets that cater to all tastes and diets.
Head to the famous “Curry Mile” in Rusholme to find South Asian and Middle Eastern restaurants, cafes, and world food markets.
Or visit the second-largest Chinatown in the UK, which has cafes, restaurants and shops selling food and goods from China, Nepal, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, and Vietnam.
Even the main supermarkets have a world food section, so finding goods that remind you of home couldn’t be easier.
Seyedbehshad Mousavi, Iran
MSc Digital Marketing
There are many shops and malls in Salford and Manchester where you can purchase items to suit your budget.
From designer brands to high street stores, vintage, or second-hand shops.
The Trafford Centre is one of Europe’s biggest shopping malls, where you can also find arcades, crazy golf, and international restaurants.
Besides the beautiful Peel Park and river on campus, there’s plenty to enjoy nearby.
From Heaton Park , one of the largest municipal parks in Europe to the newly opened RHS Garden Bridgewater in Salford; one of the largest gardening projects in Europe.
Or why not take a day trip to some of the most picturesque regions in the country?
The Lake District, Peak District or the Yorkshire Dales can be reached within a couple of hours by car or train.
If you need some extra cash to help you pay for your studies, you can find many part-time jobs available.
Our on-campus recruitment agency Unitemps can help you find something suitable to fit around your studies and to comply with the terms of your visa.
As Manchester is one of the largest economies in England, there are lots of opportunities for part time work, internships, placements, voluntary work, and careers after you graduate.
Krupa Raval, India
MSc Project Management
You can find everything you need right here on campus.
There are 100 different activity groups and sports teams to join through the Students Union, excellent sporting facilities, low-cost meals, and shops.
The International Cafe is popular, as it offers a great way to meet people from all different cultures and enjoy fun activities.
Oh, and don’t forget the support services and doctor’s surgery to keep you safe, well and feeling good.
You can even find the Salford Museum and Art Gallery which has a replica street from the 1800s and much more.
If you’ve got children, you will find many exciting family activities to enjoy.
You can visit museums, activity centres, historic buildings, farms with animals, art galleries and a lot more.
The UK has lots of resources to support families, including special areas for baby changing in public toilets and support services for families to access through education/health/voluntary organisations in your local area.
We also have a nursery right here on our campus called Busy Bees, so you can get the support you need whilst you study.
Find out more about support for students with families .
Salford Quays is a waterfront area in Salford, with world-class businesses, shopping, culture, and housing.
MediaCity is where our campus is based, right next to the BBC, ITV and over 250 other media, creative and digital businesses, as well as restaurants, shops, the Imperial War Museum, and other leisure facilities.
Students can get the free bus X50 to take them from our Peel Park campus to MediaCity.
Some of the largest companies around the world and other large international brands have an office in Greater Manchester.
In the UK we have a National Health Service.
International students can access the NHS when they pay an immigration health surcharge as part of their Student Visa application.
The services provided include:
We have a doctor's surgery on our Peel Park campus that students can register with as soon as they arrive to access the health services.
You should register separately for the dentist and you may need to pay for dental treatment as well as any medication that you are prescribed by a doctor.
Find more information about health services .
Find the course for you
Find out how to apply
Find out more

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/your-country/salford-and-china:
Studying at the University of Salford is an exciting experience, and our industry-focused courses prepare you for success.
You will be taught by staff who are experts in their field, and you will put your learning into practice in real-world settings, such as through placements, live projects, field trips, or hearing from guest speakers.
Through our partnership with the Luxon Academy of Fine Arts (LAFA), students have studied our degrees in China.
Some of these students have completed their final year of their degree course here at Salford, enhancing their learning and providing an international experience.
When you graduate from Salford, you will join a community of over 200,000 alumni worldwide who make a positive impact in their communities.
We will offer you lifelong careers advice and help provide networking opportunities, events, and mentorship programmes.
Our notable alumni from China include Su Maozhen a former football player for China’s national team, coach for the Chinese Olympic football team and the Under 20s National Football Team.
Another notable Chinese graduate is Wenwen Wang a former rhythmic gymnast for China’s national team who went on to appear on China’s The Greatest Dancer.
Our students love how friendly and diverse our community is, and that our location balances exciting city living with our spacious green campus.
We’ve got the second-largest Chinatown in the UK close by in Manchester city centre and many options for East Asian food.
Watch the video below to see more about student life from our East Asian students’ perspective.
If you need any support in making an application or have a question relating to your offer you can contact Nick Croft at n.croft@salford.ac.uk
We are proud to offer a range of scholarships aimed at supporting high achieving international students.
Amber Education Holding Limited
Knowledge2Future Limited
Beijing New Oriental Vision Overseas Consulting Co., Ltd New Oriental Education & Technology Group
Chinese Service Centre Scholarly Exchange (CSCSE)
Index Education Services
JJL International Education Exchange Promotion Ltd
UKEC
Shinyway
GET Education Consultancy
UKEAS China
International Foundation Year
Applicants with a graduation certificate from a specialised college or school (zhongzhuan) with a final grade of 60% or above will be considered for the International Foundation Year.
Applicants who have completed the huikao (senior secondary school) with a final grade of 60% or above will also be considered.
Undergraduate
Applicants who have completed three full years of high school and hold a senior secondary school graduation certificate with an overall minimum grade of 60% will be considered for undergraduate study.
Advanced undergraduate entry
Applicants who hold a dazhaun qualification with a score of 60% or above will be considered for advanced entry on relevant undergraduate programmes if appropriate modules have been studied.
Applicants who have achieved ACC/BCC/BC in graded units on their SQA-AD programme will be considered for final year entry on selected undergraduate business programmes.
Postgraduate
Applicants who have completed a bachelor’s degree from a reputable Chinese university with a GPA of 2.4/4.0 or a final grade of 60% or above will be considered for postgraduate study.
Applicants who have completed a higher education self study graduation certificate (zi’kao) with a final grade of 70% or above, and at least two years of relevant work experience, will be considered for postgraduate study.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23446:
Access a range of high-quality resources for successful studies.
Start with Library Search, your gateway to books, journals, and more.
We provide a wide array of high-quality resources to help make your studies a success.
Library Search contains print and electronic information resources, including books, journals, newspapers and databases.
We've also listed other recommended resources and study aids below, each offering a different way of extending your knowledge.
Ready to dive into a treasure trove of knowledge?
Let's explore some fantastic tools that'll make your research game strong!
Think of Library Search as your academic sidekick.
It makes finding reliable sources a breeze, so you can spend less time searching and more time acing your assessments.
Your secret weapon!
These lists are tailor-made for your courses, giving you a head start on the must-reads.
But don't stop there - explore beyond your Reading Lists to really excel in your studies.
Time to level up!
Google Scholar is like a goldmine of articles, perfect for digging deeper into your interests.
But hey, don't get too comfy.
It's not the be-all and end-all.
Mix it up with other sources and save some of your time and cash by using Lean Library .
Google - it's like a magic door to definitions and background info.
But watch out!
It's easy to use, but not everything you find is gold.
Double-check for accuracy and depth before using it for your academic work.
Library search helps find reliable academic resources like books...
The Library has access to more than 350 databases - searchable...
Lean Library is a browser extension that simplifies accessing...
The Library's Reading Lists service is here to help students...
Access past exam papers up to the last five years to prepare for...
Discover a variety of newspapers on library search, and gain...
Use Library Search to explore University of Salford dissertations...
All new research theses are available open access in USIR.
For...
Access 825,000+ eBooks on our library search page.
Read online...
We've compiled a series of subject guides to help you get access...
Request any library item not in our collection.
We'll try to...
We have material relating to the history of the University, from...
Deposit your research outputs into USIR, the University of...
Discover new library resources: journals, databases, industry...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33481:
Library search helps find reliable academic resources like books, journals, and databases.
Save, organize, filter, and reference your results easily.
Library Search can make your academic life easier by helping you find a range of reliable and trustworthy sources for your work.
It contains a wealth of information to help you make the most of your studies, including books/eBooks, journals/eJournals, articles, databases, past exam papers, the University's research, the University's Archives and Special Collections and more.
Library Search has advanced features which can save you time and help you get better results:
Want to learn more?
Watch these Library Search guidance videos .
We've put together some guidance to help you get straight to the...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23786:
We'll try to acquire it through purchase or borrowing.
Check Library Search before making a request.
Welcome to your one-stop shop for requesting items not currently in our Library collection.
This includes articles, book chapters, or entire books.
While we strive to fulfil all requests, some limitations may apply due to:
If any issues arise with your request, we’ll keep you informed.
Before requesting an item you must first check that it is not already available in Library Search .
We will not purchase items that we already have.
If more than one copy is required or it is Reading List material, please see alternative purchase suggestion routes below.
If you want us to collect an existing item off the library shelves for you, try the Click and Collect service .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33701:
The Library has access to more than 350 databases - searchable electronic collections of information which you can use to find out about the subjects you're interested in.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23781:
Lean Library is a browser extension that simplifies accessing articles, journals, and databases.
Making research easier, especially off-campus.
Lean Library is easy to install - use the install button above and follow the instructions to add it to your browser.
Once installed select “University of Salford” and Lean Library automatically pops up when you are on a site the Library has a subscription for or alerts you to alternative content.
Please check that you have the latest version of the browser – Lean Library may not work if the browser is not up-to-date.
Lean Library makes it simpler to access articles, journals and databases, particularly when you are studying off campus.
It detects when you are on a website the Library provides content on, and prompts you to log in.
If you visit a site which the Library doesn’t provide access to, Lean Library may suggest an alternative route, including Open Access content.
It also automatically adds ‘Findit@Salford’ links to results in Google Scholar.
We've developed some e-learning to help you get the most out of Lean Library.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/52266:
Discover new library resources: journals, databases, industry materials, and digital archives, tailored for your research and teaching needs.
These are new resources that we have recently acquired or currently have on a trial basis .
They are a curated combination of databases , journals and eMagazines , eBooks , industry resources and digital archives which have been identified to meet the evolving teaching and research needs at Salford.
This forms part of our ongoing commitment to provide our students and researchers with the latest high-quality, digital library content.
Visit African Diaspora, 1860-present
Visit Bloomsbury Digital Fashion Masterclasses
Visit Bloomsbury History: Theory and Method
Visit Bloomsbury Music and Sound
Visit EconLit
Visit Emerald Core eCases
At the University of Salford students and staff have free access to thousands of professionally produced online courses with LinkedIn Learning.
Its library of 22,000+ courses offer you a broad range of online learning created by industry experts, enabling you to build the skills that matter.
It is constantly updated as new technologies and workplace skills needs emerge.
Always use our institutional link to sign in for your free access.
Learn more about LinkedIn Learning
Visit 1980s Culture and Society
Visit Gender, Feminism, and the British Left, 1944-1991
Visit Royal Shakespeare Company Archives
Visit Shakespeare's Globe Archive: Theatres, Players & Performance
Visit Bloomsbury Video Library
Visit SAGE Research Methods: Diversifying and Decolonizing Research
Visit Periodicals Archive Online
Visit Bloomsbury Screen Studies : Filmmaking Collection
Visit Bloomsbury Visual Arts - Architecture Design & Practice Online
Visit Business Expert Press eBooks
Visit Drama Online - Nick Hern Books Modern Plays
Visit Institution of Civil Engineers - ICE Virtual Library
Visit Oxford Scholarship Online - Law
Offer must-have research with in-depth, contextualised, and interdisciplinary views on research topics.
We have acquired the following subject collections:
Visit SpringerLink
Visit Taylor & Francis eBooks: RIBA
Provides award winning digital content.
The collections include textbooks and practical guides which serve everyone from students to researchers to practicing professionals.
We have acquired the following collections:
Visit Taylor & Francis eBooks

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33761:
Read online, print pages, make notes, and download for offline reading.
An Ebook or Electronic book is a book that is published electronically and is usually available online.
Often there are print and electronic versions of a book, but there are also some electronic-only titles.
The Library gives you access to more than 825,000 eBooks through Library Search
When you find a book on Library Search, click the 'Online access' button to access the eBook.
When you visit the eBook platform, you may have to click on a link to open the book: e.g.
'Read Online', 'View this book' or something similar.
Sometimes there is a PDF option.
The number of people that can use an eBook at the same time varies, depending on the supplier.
If an eBook is in use you will be asked to try again later.
eBooks open on a first come, first served basis.
eBooks usually have a navigation panel on the left, showing chapters.
The full text is displayed on the right.
You can print from some eBooks.
It depends on which platform the eBook is on, and any restrictions placed on the book by its publisher.
Copyright Law generally allows you to print or copy up to one chapter or 10% of an eBook.
Some eBook platforms have Digital Rights Management incorporated into them, which will control how much you can print or copy.
When using eBooks, you must remain within the Copyright Law and any terms and conditions of the platform you’re using.
Many platforms allow you to make notes electronically when reading an eBook.
You need to be logged on to do this, so your notes can be saved and returned to.
See the help sections on the platform you are using or contact your Academic Support Librarian for further guidance.
Downloading an eBook allows you to read it on your computer or portable device when you're not connected to the internet, usually for a limited period of time.
Most of our eBooks can be downloaded to your computer or device.
On the eBook platform you'll see a 'Download' link, click this to download it to your device.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/47201:
Use Library Search to explore University of Salford dissertations and theses.
Access resources and tips for finding other academic works.
During the course of your studies, you may find that you need to search for dissertations or theses.
Maybe you would like to see what other research has been undertaken in relation to your topic, or perhaps you would like to see what a dissertation or thesis looks like?
There are many reasons why looking for this type of research can be useful.
You can use Library Search to help you find them and there are a number of different ways to search, depending on what you want to find.
You can access dissertations and theses by previous University of Salford students.
Use the 'Advanced Search' option in Library Search to find these, and take a look at our University of Salford e-theses collection .
This collection covers mostly PhD level research.
Digital dissertations - University of Salford
For help accessing our University of Salford dissertations and theses, watch this video:
There are a number of dissertation and theses databases you can use to find dissertations and theses from other academic institutions.
You can access these through Library Search .
Some of the databases you can access include:
Find out more about the ProQuest Dissertations and Theses database on our blog post: ProQuest Dissertations and Theses
We also have a ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global LibGuide to help you find out more.
For help accessing the wide range of dissertation and theses databases, watch this video:
The University of Leeds has a selection of dissertation examples with an indication of the mark awarded to the student.
Additional support resources are located on their Final Chapter webpage.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/47166:
Discover a variety of newspapers on library search, and gain insights into current affairs and historical events tailored for research and learning.
Newspapers are a great way to find out what is happening in the world.
They show what people care about now and in the past.
Many UK newspapers let you read recent articles for free on their websites.
The Library also has great tools that make it easy to search many newspapers at once.
These resources are available in Library Search .
Gale OneFile News - Contains articles from major British and American national newspapers, and local and regional newspapers.
It has an extensive collection of global publications.
Watch our video, Finding articles in Gale OneFile News for help and advice.
Lexis+ UK Legal Research - Primarily a source for legal information, but also a key resource for articles from UK national and regional newspapers.
Select the Content tab from the bar across the top of the home page.
Then select Newspapers, to limit your search.
For further help watch the video Using Lexis+ to find newspaper articles .
Financial Times Online - We provide full access.
Register for a personal FT.com account when you first access it.
The registration form asks for your email address - please use your University of Salford email address.
Once registered you can follow topics of interest, set up alerts.
And save stories to read later.
Take the My FT tour to find out more about it.
Newsstream Newspapers - This covers the US, Canada and international newspapers, including some British titles.
They include:
Please note: the most recent issues are not available for some titles.
Factiva (Dow Jones) - Provides access to global news sources.
There is a business focus, though it can be used to search for any information on any current news topic.
Factiva allows you to mark and export multiple news stories into a single file for easy data analysis.
Found within Library Search:
Gale Primary Sources provides access to a huge number of historical newspapers and archives including:
Find them on the ground floor, on the tables in the seating area next to the Tech Bar.
All located opposite the Enquiry Desk on the 3rd floor.
A full list of all our specialist newspaper databases is available in Library Search .
Contact your Academic Support Librarian if you need further help.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23791:
Access past exam papers up to the last five years to prepare for exams, with search and browse options available.
Try out past exam papers from the last five years to test your knowledge of your course and boost your confidence ahead of your exams.
Search by keyword, or browse by school or year.
If you're off campus you'll need to log in using your network username and password.
Please note: Due to Covid-19 there is limited availability of exam papers from 2020-21.
We are working with academic schools to fill any gaps.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23691:
Deposit your research outputs into USIR, the University of Salford's Institutional Repository, to ensure long-term preservation and access.
The University of Salford Institutional Repository (USIR) is a store of all research outputs produced by University of Salford staff and postgraduate researchers.
All staff and postgraduate researchers should place their research outputs in USIR via Worktribe .
Instructions and more information can be found on the Academic Profiles & Research Information System (APRIS) staff hub pages and the Doctoral School Hub pages.
By depositing in USIR via Worktribe you are agreeing to the USIR deposit agreement .
The University of Salford Open Access Policy , requires that articles and conference contributions in conference proceedings with an International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) must be deposited into USIR.
This must happen at the point of acceptance for publication, and no later than three months after that date.
For support with open access and depositing in USIR email Library-research@salford.ac.uk .
The University of Salford requires that an electronic copy of all new research theses are deposited in the University of Salford's Institutional Repository ( USIR ) via Worktribe with a Creative Commons licence .
See Theses for guidance or email Library-research@salford.ac.uk for support.
The content of your Worktribe profile can be visible via the University of Salford's staff pages , providing you have made your profile discoverable.
A discoverable profile will also be visible on the USIR .
To access and update your profile, visit Worktribe , navigate to the Profiles tab, select My Profile and populate the details in the Details tab.
Guidance on developing your profile can be found on the Academic Profiles & Research Information System (APRIS) staff hub pages.
The University of Salford Institutional Repository (USIR) supports the long term preservation of, and free access to, research material produced by members of the University of Salford.
To undertake this role, USIR staff need permission to store, copy and manipulate the material held in USIR in order to ensure that it can be preserved and made available in the future.
The USIR Deposit Agreement is designed to give USIR administrators the right to do this and to confirm that the depositor has the right to submit the material to USIR.
The Agreement is non-exclusive, and the depositor does not give away any of their rights to USIR.
Where copyright permission is not granted (check SHERPA RoMEO for publisher policies first) a bibliographic only record can be submitted.
a.
you are the copyright owner and/or have consulted SHERPA RoMEO to ensure you have the right to make this agreement with us; b.
the work(s) are original and to the best of your knowledge do not infringe anyone's copyright; c.
the work(s) do not violate or infringe any UK law.
Add the work(s) to the repository so they are freely available online for the lifetime of the repository; b.
Convert them as necessary to ensure they can be read by computer systems in the future.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33186:
This page is a great starting point for finding out about key library services.
New to the library?
Watch our video and use the survival guide to...
To register, please visit...
Reserve study spaces in the library for up to 4 hours per day...
Access course materials, submit assessments, and attend online...
Discover the opening hours for: Clifford Whitworth Lady Hale (The...
Manage your library experience all in one place!
Access loans...
Our study spaces are across campus and at MediaCity.
Choose the...
Our interactive maps, for the ground, first and second floors...
Access library resources, manage your account, and book study...
You can loan laptops at various locations.
We offer laptop loans...
Students and staff automatically get library access.
There are...
Borrow books for up to 13 weeks.
Use click and collect or self...
Returning your borrowed books is easy.
Find out what to do at...
We've put a list of key terms together to help you find your way...
Use the A to Z to quickly find the library services you need.
Our guidance will help make studying off campus easier.
Discover everything you need to know about using Microsoft Teams...
You can photocopy and scan using our fleet of printers around the...
SCONUL Access allows members of many university libraries access...
We've compiled a list of our most popular forms to help you find...
We've produced a series of guidance videos to help you make the...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33426:
Watch our video and use the survival guide to learn more about your library and how it can help your studies.
Starting early with the library can really boost your success.
Students who use library resources tend to achieve better results - so why not dive in?
Check out our quick video made by students like you and discover how the library can support your journey from day one.
Now you’ve watched the video, work through our Library Survival Checklist .
It covers ten essential skills to help you make the most of your academic journey—from borrowing books and finding study spaces to accessing expert support.
It’s your step-by-step toolkit for success!
Take a moment to complete this quick activity and share what you've learned about the Library and Careers Service.
It’s a great way to think about what you’ve discovered - and as a bonus, you’ll can enter into a prize draw to win a £20 shopping voucher !

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33206:
Use click and collect or self-service for easy borrowing.
Running time: 0:41
You may borrow books from our main collections for up to 13 weeks.
For staff and Postgraduate Research students, the loan period is up to 52 weeks.
If all copies of the book you need are on loan you may request a copy through Click and Collect.
We will email you once it is available.
If another customer requests the book you will need to return it earlier.
We will email you if this happens.
Some items are for use in the library only and may not be borrowed.
These are marked 'Reference'.
You can use the self-service machines to borrow books at:
Instructions for using the machines are shown on the touch screens, but you can ask a member of Library staff for help.
You will be unable to use the self-service machines if:
If your card isn’t working a member of staff can assist you.
We have made a 15-minute eLearning course to help you use Library Search, and find the right resources for your assignments.
After this course you will know how to:
To borrow a book from the library, follow these steps:
If you have any difficulties please contact library@salford.ac.uk .
Remember to use the self service machines to issue your collected items to your Library account.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/38441:
Reserve study spaces in the library for up to 4 hours per day.
Explore our floor plans and pick a spot!
The Library offers a variety of study spaces across campus .
Walk-in access is available, however, certain areas of the library will require a booking to use.
The bookable areas are highlighted on our maps.
You can reserve a study space for up to 4 hours per day.
Did you know...?
You can use the Library app to book a space in the Library.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23581:
Discover the opening hours for:
Staffed: 8:00 - 21:00 every day You will need your student ID card to access the building after 5pm on weekdays and all day at weekends.
Library staff may ask to see your ID at any time.
Clifford Whitworth Building Salford M5 4WT
The August Bank Holiday is on Monday 25 August 2025 Clifford Whitworth Library is open 24/7 for all study needs during the bank holiday, however:
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 17:00
Weekends: Closed
Library staff can ask to see your student ID at any time.
Monday: 8:00 - 19:30
Tuesday to Friday: 8:00 - 18:00
Staffed: Monday to Friday 9:00 - 17:00
1st Floor, Allerton Building Frederick Road, Salford M6 6PU
Monday to Saturday: 7:00 - 22:00
Sunday: Closed
MediaCity Library 3rd floor Salford Quays M50 2HE
The 50 and 51 buses are free when you show your University of Salford ID card.
The University building is behind Dockyard bar and Prezzo restaurant.
Look  for the University of Salford sign.
The library is on the third floor landing.
Students can visit the Careers Hub to:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33196:
Access loans, due dates, requests, payments, and more through your library account.
Your University ID card is also your library card.
Tell us immediately if you lose your ID card so we can prevent anyone else from using your library account.
The Library is the central hub for lost ID cards.
If your lost ID card has been found, we will notify you via your University of Salford email and place the card behind the Enquiry Desk for you to collect.
For information on getting a replacement ID card visit askUS .
Check how long you can keep your book and what might stop it from...
Use Library Search to request one week and normal loan items...
Find out what will happen if you return borrowed items late or...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33451:
Choose the right environment, service or resource to meet your study needs.
Read the Library and Learning Spaces Policy .
Running time: 3:08
We've put together interactive maps for each floor of Clifford Whitworth Library to help you get to know where everything is.
Collaborative study - Map
Quiet study - Map
Located on the first floor of the Clifford Whitworth building, the Refreshment Room is the perfect space for students to take a quick respite from studies and enjoy some food.
With a range of seating options and a selection of leisure reading to browse, the Refreshment Room is ideal for relaxing and taking in the views across Peel Park campus.
Filled with natural light, this bright, open and multifunctional space offers a calming alternative to other library spaces.
The Refreshment Room is a space ideal for preparing and eating food brought in from home.
Making use of it is a great way to save money whilst studying in the library!
Inside you'll find a range of kitchen facilities including a fridge, dishwasher, two microwaves and a boiling water tap.
Please note: To ensure the Refreshment Room remains a healthy and hygienic space for all students to enjoy we kindly ask those who make use of the space to clean up after themselves when they are finished.
The Parent and Child study room is located on ground floor of the Clifford Whitworth Library.
The room may be booked by students who need to have their children with them while they study.
The room contains children's books, colouring books, and colourful posters to help keep the child occupied while the parent studies.
The room is equipped with a PC, a desk, a projector, and a whiteboard.
To book the room, visit the Seat and Space Bookings system and select the ‘Parent and Child Study Room’ category.
The Cube offers an area of study suited to a variety of requirements.
A mix of vibrant new furniture allows students to work alone or collaboratively with the addition of single study pods, group booths, study rooms and seminar rooms with the latest Audio-Visual equipment.
Plus, there is a kitchen space to stop in for a break and a snack.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/44601:
Access library resources, manage your account, and book study spaces, with the Salford Library app.
Scan the QR code to get started!
Download the Salford Library app by searching for 'Ex Libris Library Mobile' on Google Play or the Apple Store or by following the appropriate QR code (shown below).
You can also view the Library app on the web .
When you have the app, type in 'University of Salford' and then login with your University email and password.
With the app installed you can:
*To receive notifications you'll need to go to Settings and activate the 'Receive alerts' option.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23506:
We offer laptop loans for 24 hours, 1 week, or 28 days .
To use the laptop off campus, you must log in on campus first using UOS_Wi-Fi.
You can borrow a charger from the Enquiry Desk at each location.
Extended loan laptops are 28-day loans .
Click the link below to request a laptop.
You will be added to a queue.
Email will be sent to your Salford email address when a laptop is ready.
You must bring your student ID to the enquiry desk to collect it within the dates provided.
You are responsible for the laptop and charger while you borrow them.
Do not leave them unattended or give them to anyone else.
If the laptop or charger is lost, stolen, or damaged, you will have to pay a fee.
When returning the laptop, make sure it is plugged into the locker correctly or returned to a member of staff.
If not, it will count as a failed return.
If you notice any damage, take it to the Enquiry Desk as soon as possible.
See the Library Loan Policy for details about your responsibilities when loaning items from the Library.
When you borrow a laptop and charger, you'll get an email.
The email include laptop details and when you need to return the laptop.
You're responsible for returning items on time.
If you don’t, you might get banned from borrowing or have to pay a fee.
If you have an unpaid balance on your library account, it could stop you from attending your graduation ceremony.
TIP: You can log into your library account anytime to see what you have borrowed and when it needs to be returned.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33216:
Check how long you can keep your book and what might stop it from being renewed.
All books will renew automatically each week, for up to 13 weeks.
If another student requests the item, you must return it within the stated time.
You can log into your library account at any time to manually renew items, or check when they are due back.
Laptops are non-renewable and must be returned on time.
Books won't renew for one of five reasons:
If a book is not renewing and you're unsure why, please get in touch.
You will receive the following from us regularly:
All of our communications are sent as a courtesy and should not be relied on to track your due dates.
Not receiving notification is not a valid reason to remove blocks or charges for overdue items.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33271:
See how we support researchers in making their work openly available and compliant with open access policies, workshops, and data management advice.
The Library is here to support researchers and help them reap the benefits of making their research openly available, while also facilitating compliance with funders' open access policies.
We look after the University's two institutional repositories and provide advice and support to our academic staff and postgraduate researchers.
We hold lots of workshops to help you get to grips with everything related to Open Research - from managing your research data through to publishing open access, we've got the workshop for you.
Don't delay - sign up today!
Open access aims to make scholarly research available to wider audiences, including those beyond academia.
It goes beyond making research freely available, however, and also usually involves making work available under less restrictive copyright licences.
Explore how we offer open access publishing agreements for our researchers, and...
Discover how to ensure your research publications comply with the University of Salford’s Open Access Policy.
Many research funders now require that publications that acknowledge their funding should be open access.
It’s also an integral...
Deposit your research outputs into USIR, the University of Salford's Institutional Repository, to ensure long-term preservation...
For support email library-research@Salford.ac.uk.
Managing research data is an important part of the research process that includes backing up valuable outputs and controlling who has access to your data.
Learn more about data management plans (DMPs), funder requirements, and how we are able to support you in writing your DMP.
Data sharing improves research reusability and reproducibility.
Learn how to share data via a repository and choose an appropriate...
Good storage and backup are essential in any research project.
Learn about storage options available to you and best practice for...
Major research funders have their own policies on research data sharing and management.
Each funder has expectations that you will...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23611:
Open access ensures the University's research is freely available online, enhancing visibility and impact, and is required by many funders.
Open access makes the outputs of the University's research activities freely available online.
Providing unrestricted online access, wherever possible, to our publications maximises visibility and accessibility and helps realise their potential to make significant academic, economic, social and cultural impacts.
Open Access is also a requirement for many research funders and is a requirement for REF.
The University's research outputs are available via our institutional repository, USIR .
Explore how we offer open access publishing agreements for our...
Discover how to ensure your research publications comply with the...
Many research funders now require that publications that...
Publishing your book open access enables unrestricted access and...
Contact the Open Research Team for support on publishing, data...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/34391:
Research Data Management is integral to high-quality research, meeting funder requirements, and facilitating the reuse and long-term preservation of data.
Research Data Management (RDM) refers to the active curation of research data throughout the research lifecycle .
RDM activities typically include planning and making decisions about the collection, organisation, storage, retention, publishing and sharing of research data.
CODATA have put together a useful glossary of terminology for key research data management concepts.
Research data management is integral to high-quality research and vital for ensuring the sustainability, discoverability and accessibility of data in the long-term.
It enhances the integrity of research and facilitates data sharing, validation and re-use in accordance with legal, ethical and funder requirements.
The University provides support, guidance and training for researchers to enable effective data management throughout the research lifecycle.
Good data management practice requires an initial investment of time and effort, but it offers lots of benefits to researchers, including:
To help you effectively manage your research data and comply with the University’s Research Data Management Policy , the Open Research team have created this supporting guidance.
These pages will also help you to comply with funder requirements and publisher policies.
The guidance has been structured to follow the research data lifecycle as well as the typical sections of a data management plan.
Learn more about data management plans (DMPs), funder...
Major research funders have their own policies on research data...
Ensure your research data meets ethical and legal requirements...
Good storage and backup are essential in any research project...
Data sharing improves research reusability and reproducibility...
Our Data Depositor Agreement sets out the terms and conditions...
The University’s Research Data Management Policy sets out...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23696:
Explore how we offer open access publishing agreements for our researchers, and limited funding for immediate open access needs!
We have agreements with several academic journal publishers which remove the cost of publishing open access in their journals.
However, if it is important for your work to be made open access immediately upon publication (via the paid 'Gold' route) we do have some limited funding.
You can apply to the UKRI and Institutional Open Access Funds - as soon as your research output has been accepted for publication or on submission for pure open access journals.
The funds are limited and will be allocated on a first come, first served basis, subject to the eligibility criteria and ADRI approval.
If your research output is in a different format (e.g.
a monograph, a chapter in an edited book, a performance or a patent) we recommend that you make your research output open access if you can.
Some funders have open access requirements for monographs as well as articles, for example UKRI funded research.
Email library-research@salford.ac.uk to check compliance and discuss your options.
Even if you choose not to make your output open access, you should create a record for your output in USIR and deposit the output or related files.
USIR is the official collection of the University of Salford's research outputs, and it is important that the records reflect the diversity of research that is undertaken.
We have agreements with several academic journal publishers which reduce or remove the cost of publishing open access in their journals.
The following deals are open to all current University of Salford affiliated research staff and postgraduate research students.
Individual deals may specify that you must be the corresponding author in order to be eligible (please see eligibility details for individual deals listed below).
If given the option to select a licence, we recommend you select the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY) license to maximise research dissemination and reuse.
The CC BY licence is a requirement for UKRI funded research outputs.
Please note that additional publication charges, such as colour charges and page charges, are not included in these agreements.
Authors should arrange alternative funding to cover these additional costs before committing to publish.
In accordance with JISC guidelines , corresponding authors will not normally be eligible to use an agreement if they are:
For more information please contact library-research@salford.ac.uk
Funder compliance – UKRI and Wellcome Trust
UKRI and Wellcome Trust funded researchers can publish with any of these publishers and comply with their funder open access requirements, provided your work is published with a CC BY licence.
If you are considering publishing with another publisher, please email library-research@salford.ac.uk to discuss the open access compliance requirements.
University of Salford corresponding authors can publish open access in Elsevier subscription journals.
This agreement also provides a discount on Elsevier fully open access journals – open access funding is not guaranteed, and authors should apply using the Support for Open Access form on submission to the journal.
University of Salford authors can publish open access in Sage subscription journals.
This agreement provides a discount on publications in Sage’s fully open access journals – open access funding is not guaranteed and authors should apply using the Support for Open Access form on submission to the journal.
Before applying for open access funding you should check that there is not an equivalent free open access option for your output, for example a journal that is part of a publisher agreement or a journal which does not charge a fee to publish .
Please contact the Library by emailing library-research@salford.ac.uk to discuss your options prior to applying for funding.
Applications will be checked by the Library and open access funding decisions will be made by the appropriate Associate Dean Research & Innovation (ADRI), subject to the availability of funds.
Applicants should apply for funding on submission of the article to ensure there is time to make alternative arrangements if funding is not available.
Subject to available funds and meeting the eligibility criteria, the Institutional Open Access fund will pay up to the full open access cost plus any applicable VAT on your behalf.
If you are submitting to a pure open access journal apply for funding on submission of your article to ensure there is time to make alterative arrangements if funding is not available.
We will only support applications for credible open access journals.
Authors should run a quick 'think, check, submit' credibility check before applying or contact the Library for advice.
Has your research been impacted by your protected characteristics or personal circumstances?
If it has, and you think it would benefit from receiving Open Access funding to increase its reach and impact, please email the Library or your ADRI with the details to support your application.
Eligibility Criteria
To be eligible for funding at least one of the article's authors must be a current member of University of Salford academic staff or postgraduate research student (PGR) and meet at least one of the following criteria.
Before applying for open access funding, SSEE academics should engage with the School's pre-publication process.
Email papers with 3* or 4* potential to See-Ref@salford.ac.uk so they can be allocated to an IPR panel member for pre-publication assessment.
Applications from emeritus or associate appointments will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
Honorary appointments are not eligible for funding.
Priority will be given to pure open access journals and the fund is not intended for the use of hybrid, where the green self-archiving route is available for open access.
Our UKRI fund supports open access for any articles which acknowledge UKRI funding and can be published via gold open access with a CC-BY licence.
Subject to available funds, the UKRI open access fund will pay up to the full cost of the APC plus any applicable VAT on your behalf.
Books and monographs benefit from open access in many of the same ways as articles.
There has been much more progress to date making articles open access as standard but as funder open access policies respond to Plan S there is increased momentum to make publicly funded monographs open access.
However, there are barriers:
There are also additional copyright considerations, for example, the use of third-party copyright and the impact of adapted works such as translations.
The UKRI's open access policy requires that monographs published on or after 1 January 2024 should be available open access, with a creative commons licence, within a maximum of 12 months of publication.
The next REF open access policy is likely to include a similar requirement for monographs.
The University is keen to support authors to make their monographs open access and meet funder requirements, and ensuring our investment reflects the University of Salford’s current and future research and teaching needs.
We therefore recommend that authors, and research leads approving applications for open access funding, consider the following:
Are you interested in publishing your monograph open access?
Before making any decisions or agreements with publishers, please discuss your options with Wendy Taylor , Scholarly Communications Librarian, at library-research@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/44096:
Join our open research workshops to enhance your skills, manage research data, and publish your work.
Book now for tailored training sessions.
We offer a wide range of training sessions to help you.
All workshops are bookable through Advantage by clicking on the workshop title.
We can also provide bespoke training to groups or individuals – email Library-research@salford.ac.uk to request a 1:1 appointment or arrange a  training session.
Workshop evaluation

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/35596:
Enhance your academic profile with ORCID, social media, ResearchGate, Scopus, and Google Scholar.
Learn how to connect and share your research!
Academic profiles are your opportunity to present yourself and your research to a wider audience and ensure you get credit for your research outputs.
There are many different profile options available – pick the ones that work for you and your research audience.
Get in touch if you would like to meet and review your academic profile and learn how use the platforms listed here.
We recommend that you maintain an ORCID profile, linked to our repository, USIR .
ORCID provides a unique identifier that distinguishes you from every other researcher.
It also has a profile feature, which you can populate with information about your research activities.
You can also link your ORCID iD up with services like Crossref, Scopus, DataCite and many more so that information about your publications can be automatically added to your profile.
Social media platforms like X (Twitter), Facebook and LinkedIn can be a great way to promote your research to academic and non-academic audiences.
You can use Altmetric to track the attention your research is receiving online.
These academic networking sites are a useful way to connect with others in your research field.
They are also often used to share research publications, but you need to make sure you are not infringing any copyright restrictions.
Link to open access versions where available and get in touch if you’re unsure.
If your work is indexed in Scopus you will be given a Scopus ID and profile.
It is worth checking that the information held is accurate and you are correctly associated with your publications.
Creating a Google Scholar profile is a simple way of collating your publications and making them easier for others to find.
Take a look at some Google Scholar profiles for Salford academics .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23606:
Discover how ORCID provides a unique digital identifier for researchers, enhancing connectivity and ensuring credit for your work.
ORCID (Open Researcher and Contributor ID) is a persistent digital identifier that distinguishes you from every other researcher, improves connectivity between the systems you use (e.g.
publisher submission systems, grant application systems) and ensures you get credit for your work.
Think of it as a DOI (Digital Object Identifier) for people.
ORCID is a not-for-profit organisation, supported by research funders, universities and publishers across the world.
There are currently over 12 million ORCID iDs.
Many publishers and research funders now require an ORCID iD as part of their submission and application processes and it is likely to be a future REF requirement.
As well as providing your unique 16 digit identifier, ORCID also has a profile feature.
You can populate information about your research activities and create an online CV that stays with you for your entire career.
If you have an ORCID iD already, we recommend linking it to your Worktribe profile.
If you do not have an ORCID iD, you can create one via Worktribe.
To create or connect your ORCID, sign in to Worktribe , click 'Register or Connect your ORCID iD' and follow the instructions.
Connecting your Worktribe and ORCID profiles will enable you to push information about your publications between both accounts and will provide an authenticated link between your ORCID account and the University.
It’s really easy and should only take a few minutes – see our step-by-step guide if you’re having problems.
Once you have created and connected your ORCID we recommend you take some time to build your ORCID profile.
We recommend that you start with your:
Further instructions are available on the ORCID website .
We run regular ORCID training sessions or you can contact library-research@salford.ac.uk for support.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/25516:
Contact the Open Research Team for support on publishing, data management, ORCID, and more.
Join our workshops and enhance your research skills.
The Library's Open Research Team can support University of Salford researchers to:
Email: library-research@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33716:
It’s also an integral part of REF2021.
Plan S is an initiative for Open Access supported by cOAlition S, an international consortium of research funding and performing organisations.
The Plan S principles inform the open access policies of the cOAlition S funders, for example UKRI and the Wellcome Trust, to realise the ambition of immediate open access for publicly funded research.
The REF 2021 publication period closed on 31 December 2020 and we are now in the publication period for REF 2029.
However researchers should continue to comply with the requirements of the REF 2021 Open Access policy .
The University of Salford Open Access Policy has been designed so that, if you follow the University of Salford Policy you will automatically comply with the REF Open Access Policy.
According to the policy, staff and postgraduate students must submit their journal articles or conference contributions with an ISSN to USIR via Worktribe at the point of acceptance for publication, and no later than three months after that date.
The version of the paper that needs to be submitted is the final version submitted by the author(s) before formal acceptance for publication.
More information on the REF is available at REF 2029 .
The UKRI Open Access Policy applies to peer-reviewed research articles, monographs, book chapters and edited collections that acknowledge funding from UKRI or any of its councils.
The councils are: AHRC
For peer-reviewed research articles submitted for publication on or after 1 April 2022, the key requirements include:
'For the purpose of open access, the author has applied a Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence (where permitted by UKRI, 'Open Government Licence' or 'Creative Commons Attribution No-derivatives (CC BY-ND) licence may be stated instead) to any Author Accepted Manuscript version arising'
For monographs published on or after 1 January 2024, the key requirements include:
Authors must establish how they will meet the open access requirements when they choose a publisher and before submission .
Please get in touch via library-research@salford.ac.uk to discuss how you can ensure you are compliant if:
If your research is funded by the following funders, you must ensure any resulting publications and associated data meet your funder open access requirements.
Data access statements are used in research publications to explain where supporting data can be found and under what conditions they can be accessed.
Data access statements are required for all publications which are publicly funded.
They often appear as a statement in the article and many journals will have data availability statement templates.
But not all journals do, so you may have to include equivalent text elsewhere in the article.
Further information and example wording for data access statements can be found on the open research website .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33486:
Discover how to get help and support from the library.
We aim to make our facilities inclusive for all library users...
We have extensive experience in developing online and face to...
We've brought together a selection of the key resources we...
The Library Champion Scheme is an initiative developed between...
If you think we've not met our high standards and wish to complain, please use one of the methods above or email library-complaints@salford.ac.uk .
For more information on how we deal with complaints, please see our complaints procedure .
Throughout our site you will find links to external websites.
Although we make every effort to ensure these links are accurate, up to date and relevant, The Library cannot take responsibility for pages maintained by external providers.
If you come across any external links that don't work, we would be grateful if you could report them to us .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/79356:
If you’re having trouble accessing online library resources, you may be able to fix the problem by going through a few simple steps.
Help us out by carrying out the following checks.
If you’re still having access issues, please get in touch with us – instructions on contacting us are at the bottom of this page.
If you are from a Partner Institution, you may have different access set up.
For more information, please find your relevant institution .
If you have tried all of these steps and are still facing difficulties, please contact us via this form or email us at library-eresources@salford.ac.uk .
For help about other issues, please see our Know How or Help and Support pages.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/24216:
We've compiled a series of subject guides to help you get access to the very best subject-specific resources.
Find your subject in the drop-down list below.
Make an appointment to get specialist help with your academic...
We offer a wide range of academic skills workshops delivered...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/24101:
The Library Champion Scheme is an initiative developed between The Library and the Students' Union to give students a voice in the Library.
Each school has a Library Champion.
Your Library Champion works closely with your Academic Skills Team to represent you.
Your Library Champion can:
Find out who is the Library Champion for your subject area.
Email them with details of what you would like ordering, including full details of the resource and the number of copies.
you would like to see in the Library.
Let us know if you would like to be notified when we get it in stock, so you know when it’s available.
Rachael Antwis, Lecturer in Global Ecology and Conservation, School of Environment & Life Sciences
Tracy Breheny, Academic Support Librarian
Clifford Whitworth now has Ergonomic chairs available to borrow thanks to Emma, who is a Library Champion and the USSU Disability Officer.
"As a disabled student myself I know how difficult university life can be to navigate.
The idea of ergonomic chairs came to me when I was studying for my undergraduate dissertation.
I had recently been diagnosed with severe hypermobility syndrome which affects all my joints and nerves.
I now use a crutch on very bad days.
I was spending all my time in the library, and started to notice how I was finding the chairs really uncomfortable.
I would be in pain at the end of a study session, and I wished I could alter my chair.
Ergonomic chairs are extremely beneficial for disabled students.
They allow the student to alter the height, the arms, and the back of the chair.
The chairs also feature a rocking function which allows the student to gently rock on the chair.
This is really important for students like myself who suffer with circulation problems as it allows me to ensure I am still having small movements.
This is also good for anxiety as it helps calm me and relax me.
The chairs have high backs on them which is essential for students with mobility problems, like myself, who need to have that extra back support and comfort.
The most important aspect for me is making sure the learning environment is inclusive and accessible, and the new ergonomic chairs are ensuring just that!"
Find out more and see what other Inclusive Support the Library offers.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/37026:
We offer a range of services across our Libraries and Learning Spaces, to support you with your research.
Find out more about our different Library spaces, borrowing laptops, and using our Library app via the information below.
As a postgraduate researcher, you can access a wide range of physical and electronic resources, skills and research support, and careers advice.
For example, you can access past PhD theses, get help with your research data, access specialist skills workshops and e-learning, and ask for new items to be added to our collection.
Get all your Skills advice and guidance right here.
See how we support researchers in making their work openly...
We're passionate about helping our students explore career...
If you're conducting research that involved categories of human participants, sensitive topics, human or animal tissue or primary data must complete an ethical review via Infonetica before starting your data collection.
Your Module Leader or Lecturer will advise on whether you are required to complete an individual application via Infonetica or whether they will submit an application on your behalf (known as Block Approval).
You can access specialised support and general Library help through a wide variety of channels.
We provide support, training and one-to-one sessions for students...
Further information is available across the Library website and the Doctoral School Hub .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23576:
Please let us know if you notice something we could improve .
We recommend discussing your needs with the Disability Inclusion Service .
They will create a Reasonable Adjustment Plan (RAP) that can be used University-wide.
Information about your disability will only be shared if we are given your express permission to do so.
Click on the buttons below to explore the different support the Library provides .
We offer a Click and Collect service for all library users.
You can request print books and AV items by logging in to Library Search and choosing “request”.
Once ready, the items can be picked up at Allerton Learning Space, Clifford Whitworth or MediaCity Library by you or a nominated person.
If you require somebody else to collect your item(s) on your behalf please email library@salford.ac.uk
All items will automatically renew up to 13 weeks or until requested by another library patron.
For students with reasonable adjustment plans in place this means that your loans will renew every two weeks rather than every week.
Requested items will be held on our request shelves for two weeks .
RNIB Bookshare supports those who are unable to access print by providing a vast collection of accessible textbooks.
This is a free service for visually impaired students.
Queries about this service should be sent to Library-Readinglists@salford.ac.uk .
Students with Reasonable Adjustment Plans (RAPs) requiring texts in alternative formats should contact their Academic Support Librarian with details of the item(s) and Reading List(s).
The Library will attempt to source the resource in the required format, such as an electronic copy of resource if available, or scan the item or provide the material through RNIB Bookshare.
At the University you can access a range of assistive technology, accessibility tools and software packages designed to support you to access the services and information you need and to support you in your studies.
Text to speech reading assistance device.
Includes text to speech OCR reading capabilities and additional features designed specifically for students with reading challenges.
This can be borrowed from the Enquiry Desk during staffed hours in the Clifford Whitworth Library as a 24-hour loan.
Relay UK brings relay services for deaf, hard-of-hearing, and speech-impaired people.
Digital IT is registered with Relay UK.
Staff are available to help with queries during core hours.
A voicemail service runs at other times.
Inspiration, My Study Bar and Adobe Acrobat Reader are available at most sites.
Disability Inclusion Services provide further software and with Microsoft 365, you can connect to your resources anytime, anywhere and from any device.
This ‘mind mapping’ software is available on PCs in the accessible study rooms.
For more details about accessible study rooms see the Library Spaces section below.
It can display information and ideas visually using webs, maps, and diagrams.
Inspiration can also reformat the visual information into an index or list in Word, enabling you to see your ideas as an outline of a report or an essay.
Software applications designed to provide study skills support for students in their academic work.
The MSB icon is on loanable Windows laptops in the Library.
My Study Bar consists of: Planning, Reading, Writing, Vision, Voice, and Help.
A general guide to MSB is available.
Magnifier , Narrator or On-Screen Keyboard are useful tools when using Microsoft Office applications.
They are available to everyone and are on all Microsoft laptops and PCS, so you will be able to access them on all Library desktop PCs and laptops.
To use these tools, click the 'Start' icon, go to 'All Programs', and select the tool you want from 'Accessories'.
This feature is available to everyone via Adobe Acrobat Reader and will read the text content of PDFs out loud.
Acrobat Reader can read PDF aloud on any device, so you can listen to the content of a PDF from anywhere.
Read guidance on this feature .
A roaming profile is useful if you need to use multiple software systems.
These are available as recommendations through Student Support Plans/ Reasonable Adjustment Plans (RAPs).
If you think you would benefit from this service, please contact Digital IT.
Ergonomic chairs can be found in the accessible study rooms.
Clifford Whitworth Library and Allerton Learning Space have accessible study rooms.
These can be requested by students and signed off by Library staff.
Clifford Whitworth: Accessible toilets are available on all floors.
Allerton Learning Space: The accessible toilet is on the main corridor outside the entrance.
MediaCity: Accessible toilets are available on all floors.
Lady Hale/The Cube: Accessible toilets are available on all floors.
A number of student lockers are available at Clifford Whitworth Library for those with Reasonable Adjustment Plans (RAPs) that require one.
The lockers are large enough to store several books, so you won't have to carry them around.
Please ask staff at the Enquiry Desk during staffed hours if you would like to use a locker.
Students with RAPs in place can loan a locker for up to four weeks.
All University printers are accessible, fitted with an adjustable control panel and screen enlargement option.
Read our guidance on how to use the printers .
The closest accessible parking spaces are:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23586:
Stay on track with these tips for off-campus studying:
Please note: Some services are only available to registered Salford students in the UK due to licensing rules.
Partner college students - read our tailored information.
A new service from Digital IT allows you to get the apps you use on campus on your own personal devices.
Applications include SPSS / Visual Studio / Resolve and many more!
We've put together some short guides to help you - choose from the options below.
If you have any questions please check out the articles on the Service Portal .
For further help call the Service Desk on 0161 295 2444.
Learn about the key IT services and resources to support your studies.
You can:
The subject-specific resource lists created by our academic support experts are a good starting point.
The Library's Reading Lists service is here to help students searching for recommended readings as well as lecturers looking to...
Library search helps find reliable academic resources like books, journals, and...
Start with Library Search, your gateway to books, journals, and...
Check Library Search before...
Making research easier...
Our Skills team offer online learning and workshops to help you develop study, research, digital and IT skills.
We have a wide range of services to help you make the best start here at the University of Salford.
We've put together a helpful list of the key IT and digital resources you'll...
Manage your studies anytime...
APA 7th edition is our official Harvard referencing scheme and the main referencing style in use at the University.
Contact the Library by email: library@salford.ac.uk
Off-campus students have the same borrowing rights as on-campus students.
You can borrow material from the library while you are on placement.
Items must still be returned on time.
We are unable to offer a postal loan service.
We're having trouble sending email...
Students studying Distance Learning programmes can request scanned copies of...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/24886:
Our Teaching and Learning Support staff consist of School-based teams of Academic Support Librarians and Academic Skills Consultants, and a Student Digital Skills trainer.
The range of academic skills that we support includes:
Consultation on the best way of embedding academic support for your students across programmes and within individual modules at the appropriate time and the appropriate level.
The range of support we offer:
Integrating Skills in Programmes We offer a digital-first approach for academic, research and digital skills training for students at L3 and L4, with a wide range of academic skills eLearning designed to be integrated directly into your programme via Blackboard.
Some of these materials are also suitable for students at other levels and we are currently creating further resources.
Your School Library team is available for conversations to discuss ideas and how to integrate skills into programmes – please contact us at the email below.
Embedded bespoke delivery Face-to-face, online and blended teaching delivery, co-created between us and you, contextualised for your students.
Our sessions are designed to engage students through active learning opportunities.
Contact us to discuss.
Co-curricular offer As well as embedded sessions, we offer a wide range of co-curricular workshops and online materials – it can be helpful to make your students aware of these.
Individual support for students We offer some one-to-one support for students to develop academic writing skills and information searching skills.
You are welcome to signpost students who would most benefit to this service, particularly as part of your feedback comments on their work.
LinkedIn Learning The Library hosts LinkedIn Learning, an online education platform with more than 5,000 courses, mainly in the areas of professional development and digital skills.
You can use these at any time to supplement your own learning or embed in your teaching.
More information and log on details are available on the LinkedIn Learning web page .
For support on embedding this in your teaching, please contact us.
Training your students - What we do and don't offer
We provide information skills sessions for your students at all levels, covering a variety of topics tailored to meet your students' needs:
We offer bespoke design and delivery of study skills support on a range of topics such as:
We help students make the best use of IT and digital resources through face-to-face and online training sessions.
Topics include:
The best way to incorporate skills support into your programmes is to:
The more involved academic staff are in the process, the more successful the learning outcomes.
Students are more engaged when sessions are relevant to their needs and co-delivered by tutors.
Collaboration between the Library and academics works!
There are a number of ways that we can work with you:
The Library’s Collections Policy outlines the Library's approach to providing high quality, fit for purpose collections which support the University's strategic goals for learning, teaching and research.
You are required to order materials for your teaching via the appropriate module on the University's online reading list system, Reading Lists at Salford .
Additional materials for wider reading can be ordered via your Academic Support Librarian (see the contact details at the top of the page).
Staff and students can also Request new library items .
In response to feedback that more books were needed, the Library has set money aside to buy additional copies of key texts or copies of books not currently in stock.
Decolonising Reading Lists is an integral part of the work of decolonising the curriculum.
Doing so enables all students to explore and reference different cultural histories and narratives in their work.
This approach can also increase a sense of belonging within the University and, ultimately, contribute to the work of closing awarding gaps.
Password resets are the main staff query to the Service Desk.
All staff can reset their own passwords using Microsoft's Get back into your account web page .
We've produced guidance to help you reset your password .
If you're still experiencing difficulties after trying the password reset, please raise a ticket on the Service Portal .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/53106:
Our resources can help you start your learning journey with confidence.
If English is not your first language, or if you are new to studying in the UK, it is essential that you familiarise yourself with the help and University guidance available to you before you begin your studies.
All new students should click on the links in this section and complete the learning provided.
All new students should click on the links in this section and complete any relevant learning.
You don't need to complete everything in this section - choose the content that will help you to settle into learning in the UK.
It's never too early to start thinking about your career.
The Careers and Enterprise team offer:
Contact them for information and advice on:
If you decide to work in the UK during and after your studies, we understand guidelines can be complicated and confusing.
Gain information and advice from our Careers and Enterprise service to help you find and apply for work, and make the most out of your studies and time at University.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/78981:
The button below opens a form which you can use to send us any queries you have.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/54261:
We strive to continuously improve our services.
Your feedback is a vital part of this.
By gathering feedback about what's working well, or not so well, we can explore ways we can make improvements to the service we offer.
We collect feedback in a variety of ways including: Mystery Shoppers, focus groups, polls on the Library App .
We assess the feedback and figure out how we can develop the library service.
Here are some recent examples of where we have used feedback to make improvements:
Become a Mystery Shopper and earn while you learn.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33171:
Find the resource you need
Academic Writing Course
Accessibility in the Library
APA 7th (Harvard) Referencing style
Archives and Special Collections
Blackboard Learn
Blog - Read the Library Blog
Book a library space
Brass Band News
Chicago Referencing for history students
Click & Collect
Complaints procedure
Contact the Archives
Contact the Library
Contact the Open Research team
Copyright
Databases
Data Management Plan
Decolonising your Reading List
eBooks
Events in the Library - request form
Exam papers
Feedback form
Filming in the Library - request form
Find library resources
Find your way around the library
Get ready to learn at University
Glossary of terms
Group work
Help from the Library
International student support
IT Skills
Join the Library
Laptop loans
Lean Library
Library Champion Scheme
Library account
Library App
Library Blog
Library Customer Feedback
Library Know-How
Library Search
Library space - book a space in the library
Library web forms
LinkedIn Learning
Lost property
Mentimeter
Microsoft 365 courses
Microsoft Copilot
Microsoft Excel
Microsoft Forms
Microsoft Office Specialist
Microsoft OneDrive
Microsoft OneNote
Microsoft Outlook
Microsoft Planner
Microsoft PowerPoint
Microsoft Sway
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Teams for online meetings
Microsoft Word
New library resources
New students
Off campus study
One to one appointments
Open Access
Opening times
Open Research
ORCID
OSCOLA Referencing for law students
Overdue and lost items
Padlet
Partner institutions
Photocopying and scanning
Printer move request
Printing
Reading Lists
Referencing - Chicago style
Referencing - Harvard APA 7th style
Referencing - OSCOLA style
Request it!
Research Data Management
Resources - Find library resources
Scanning and Photocopying
SCONUL Access
Statement of Public Task
Study guides
Subject support
Support for academic staff
Support from the Library
Teams (Microsoft) for online meetings
Theses
Thinglink
Training - Microsoft 365 courses
Using other libraries
Visit the Library
Wayfinding
Workshops
Worsley New Hall Project
Zines

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33496:
We've put a list of key terms together to help you find your way through library jargon.
If you can't find the word that you're struggling with, let us know it.
We'll add it to the list and your suggestion will help others.
Learn new words
Abstract - A short summary of a longer piece of work.
Article - A piece of writing in a journal, magazine or newspaper.
Assistive technology - Specialist technology empowering disabled students to work and access information independently.
Bibliography - A full list of the materials an author has used when researching their work.
Blackboard - The University's virtual learning environment (VLE).
Borrow - To check out a resource from the library.
Chapter - A numbered and/or titled section of a book, often listed on the contents page at the front.
Check out - Borrowing a resource from the library using your ID card.
Citation - A reference to a different piece of work used by an author in their own writing.
Citations make it clear that another source has been used.
Classmark - The letters and numbers on the spine of a library item, used to arrange resources by subject.
You can browse by classmark on Library Search.
Copyright - Legal restrictions on how much of a book may be copied, and for what purposes.
Notices posted near the photocopiers explain these rules.
Database - A searchable electronic collection of resources like journal articles, books, and data, which you can use to find out about a subject you are interested in.
You will find information about databases in Library Search.
Dewey Decimal Number - A number code that indicates the subject of a book, according to the Dewey Decimal Classification System.
Dissertation - A piece of original academic work, usually written for a bachelor's or Master's degree.
eBook (electronic book) - An electronic book available online.
There can be print and electronic versions of a book, but some are online only.
Edition - A revised version of a publication.
A book may go through a number of different editions.
Each should have separate catalogue entries.
eJournal (electronic journal) - An electronic journal available online.
There can be print and electronic versions of a journal, but some are online only.
Enquiry Desk - Staffed desks at Clifford Whitworth Library, Allerton Learning Space and Media City Library where we are happy to help.
Floors: - Clifford Whitworth Library has three floors, colour-coded to show their purpose:
ID Number - Your student ID number will begin with @00.
Printed on your ID card, it is unique to you.
You will need your ID card to borrow resources, and to enter the library outside of open access hours.
Inter-library loan - If the library does not have the book or item that you want, you can request it from another library.
ISBN - International Standard Book Number assigned by publishers to each edition of a book.
ISSN - International Standard Serial Number, a unique identifier for a periodical title.
Library card - Your student ID card is also your library card.
Loan allowance - How many items you can borrow at a time.
MFD - Multi-Functional Devices - The photocopy, print and scan machines.
Periodical - Also known as a Journal or Serial.
A publication containing separate issues under one title.
These form volumes, which can be published regularly or occasionally.
Plagiarism - Using someone else's work as your own, intentionally or unintentionally, due to not crediting the original source.
Print credit - Money on your account for printing, copying, and scanning.
New students start with £2 of free credit.
You can add more online with your bank card details.
Reading list - A list of resources that students are expected to read for their course.
Reference - An item you can only use in the library.
Referencing - Accurately recording the details of all resources used in academic writing, to acknowledge the work of others and avoid plagiarism.
Request - Asking for a book you want when all the copies are out on loan.
Return - To bring back an item that you have borrowed and discharge it from your library account.
Scan - To make a digital copy of an item.
SCONUL Access - A scheme that lets students and staff borrow or use resources at over 170 university libraries in the UK and Ireland.
Self-Service machines - Machines on the ground floor of Clifford Whitworth Library, near the courtyard.
You use them to borrow books.
Shelf mark - See Classmark
Username - Required for accessing PCs, laptops and resources when off-site.
Your username will have been sent in a registration email, and consist of three letters and three numbers.
USIR (University of Salford Institutional Repository) - A store of all research outputs by University of Salford staff and postgraduate researchers, accessible through Library Search .
Webinar - An online seminar where participants interact in real-time.
Wildcard - A symbol used in searches to find different spellings of a word, like organi*ation for organisation and organization.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/33166:
We have material relating to the history of the University, from its foundations in 1896 up to the present day.
This rich and diverse resource supports academic research, teaching and learning, while also being of wider interest to local historians, genealogists and anyone with an interest in historical research.
We've drafted a new vision for the Library's Archives and Special Collections to unlock their potential for teaching, learning and research, and to propel our service into the future.
We invite you to read our vision and share your feedback to help us shape the future of our archives.
We preserve and provide access to unique primary resource materials to cultivate teaching, learning and research at the University.
Archives are records that we collect for permanent preservation due to their evidentiary or historic value, and the valuable information they can provide.
Discover an almost complete run of the 19th-20th century journal, Brass Band News, and five 19th century posters for brass band...
Discover the 100-year history of Worsley New Hall.
Find out about the family and...
Use the drop-down list below to search through our archive collections.
Our Archives and Special Collections are open to all.
They can be viewed in person on the University campus by making an...
FC Mather collected a large amount of notes when researching for his book After the Canal Duke: a study of the industrial estates administered by the Trustees of the Third Duke of Bridgewater in the age of railway building, 1825-1872 (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1970).
Arthur Hopcraft was one of the great scriptwriters of his day, well known for his TV plays such as The Nearly Man, and for his small screen adaptations such as Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, Hard Times and Bleak House.
The collection contains business accounts, administrative records and other documents relating to the Bartington area.
The majority of the material relates to John Antwiss of Aston, High Constable, banker, arable farmer and tannery director.
Walter Greenwood was born in Salford on 17th December 1903, and was educated at the local council school.
After leaving school at the age of thirteen he worked in a succession of poorly paid jobs, as a pawnbroker's assistant, clerk, stable lad, maker of packing-cases, and was sometimes unemployed.
Includes report books, student admission registers, staff registers, visitors book, photographs, Headmaster's reports, prospectuses, programmes and historical notes.
Oldham and Son was founded in 1865 as a general engineering firm in Denton, Manchester, making machinery for the hatting and mining industries.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23686:
About | Cookies | Privacy | Accessibility
Epeχio by Metadatis

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23676:
As well as supporting academic research with our extensive knowledge of the collections and advice on other sources of relevant archives, we can also provide more structured assistance with teaching and learning.
Our collections offer immense scope for academic research across disciplines and at various levels.
All researchers are encouraged to contact us and find out more about what we have to offer.
If you are interested in using archives in your studies, start by exploring the collection descriptions on our website.
We also provide workshops and one-to-one advice to encourage and inspire research.
We can help academic staff at the University to embed archives in their teaching and learning, particularly if an area of study has an historic dimension.
We offer tailor-made group sessions, introducing students to our collections, encouraging them to think about archives and consider utilising them.
These include the opportunity to handle archive documents.
We can provide one to one sessions with students to help with their dissertations and research projects.
These tend to work best as follow-ups to the group sessions where students have been encouraged to discover more.
We offer a workshop explaining how to locate archival material using the Internet, which can be tailored to specific subject areas.
We are keen to acquire new collections which will further support teaching, learning and research at the University.
The Leon Locker endowment is available to facilitate the purchase of such material.
Staff interested in developing projects which include the acquisition of archive collections are encouraged to contact the Archivist.
We are the guardians of the University’s corporate memory, back to our foundation in 1896.
If you require any information about the history of the University, please don’t hesitate to ask.
We can also help with marketing and fundraising activities, for example, by providing historic images of the University.
Please let us know about your particular interests.
It may be that we have relevant material which isn't highlighted on the website or know of collections elsewhere which may be of assistance.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/44596:
Find something new today.
From photos to literary manuscripts, Salford Digital Archives provides access to a wide selection of unique original material for you to explore.
We are growing our content offer, always looking for new opportunities to work in partnership to surface and bring rare and otherwise hidden archive content to new audiences online.
Discover a wonderful array of artefacts relating to the Hall.
Photographs, correspondence, architectural plans and audio recordings relating to the history of Worsley New Hall, former seat of...
Worsley New Hall was a Victorian mansion, built in the 1840s for the Earls of...
Mike Craig wrote sketches for some of the greats of British comedy.
A collection of audio recordings amassed by the comedy writer Mike Craig.
They include sketches, interviews and shows which formed...
This collection of audio recordings is a valuable and unique resource for...
Photographs covering the changing times at the University.
A large and extensive collection of photographic images relating to the history...
Get an insight into the workings of the Bridgewater Canal during the first half of the 20th century.
We have photographs capturing maintenance and engineering works, mostly along...
Charlotte McCarthy, Group Archivist
Peel Land and Property
A range of digitised photographs and posters from circa 1910 to 2006.
A range of photographs and posters digitised from the collections of the Working...
Letters and documents about the invention of an undulating railway between 1832 and 1836.
The Richard Badnall Papers are letters and documents about the invention of an...
A unique and unrivalled resource for the history of brass bands and brass banding activities across the United Kingdom between 1881 and 1958.
Discover an almost complete run of the 19th-20th century journal, Brass Band...
Hindle Wakes was controversial for its portrayal of a mill girl who chooses independence rather than marriage to the mill owner's son who has made her pregnant.
Stanley Houghton was an early 20th century playwright born in Ashton upon Mersey...
Footage from events at the University filmed between 1950 and 2000.
Contains promotional videos for the University, footage of graduation ceremonies...
A curated collection of plans and architectural drawings relating to the University of Salford and its precursor, the Royal College of Advanced Technology, dating from c1950 to 1976.
Plans and architectural drawings relating to the University and its precursor...
The Archive reveals what's been occupying our students' minds throughout the years.
An insight into the lives, experiences, interests, and opinions of the student...
In his interviews with the people shaping our century, including conversations with Nobel Prize winners, business leaders, politicians, artists and Olympians, Dr.
Vikas Shah MBE DL has been in the privileged position of questioning the minds that matter on the big issues that concern us all.
Dr Vikas Shah MBE DL is an entrepreneur, investor and CEO of Swiscot Group.
A curated collection of unpublished manuscripts of novels, plays and film scripts, published first editions and photographs.
Walter Greenwood (1903–1974), was a novelist and playwright born in Salford in...
A set of report books dating from 1874 through to 1967 detailing the work and activities of the Head Gardeners and Park Superintendents for the city of Salford.
A set of report books dating from 1874 through to 1967 detailing the work and...
Well known for his TV plays such as The Nearly Man, and for his small screen adaptations such as Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, Hard Times and Bleak House, Arthur Hopcraft is the focus for this digital collection which is curated from our physical collection.
Arthur Hopcraft (1932-2004) was one of the great scriptwriters of his day, known...
Harold Brighouse was an English playwright and author born in Eccles, Salford in 1882.
His most successful and well-known play was Hobson’s Choice, a comedy about gender and social class conventions which premiered in New York in 1915.
Harold Brighouse was an English playwright and author born in Eccles, Salford in...
Francis Egerton, 3rd Duke of Bridgewater (1736-1803) enabled the construction of England’s first true canal from Worsley to Manchester and Salford for transporting coal from his mines to market.
The archive consists of over 900 individual items relating to the family history of the Egertons, and the acquisition of land and...
Discover the history of the men who held the title of Duke of Bridgwater.
The University hosts a music venue with a rich history.
A collection of material focusing on the University of Salford’s main concert venue, Maxwell Hall, ranging from the 1960s to...
Discover the musical history of Maxwell Hall and look through our curated...
The Revans Collection for Action Learning holds materials from the personal archive of Reginald Revans, the father of Action Learning.
A selection of 'Action Learning' posters from Reginald Revans.
Reginald Revans (1907-2003) was an academic and business consultant who...
Get on track with these hand-drawn remnants of our railway heritage.
Three sub-collections: ‘Plans from Lancashire & Yorkshire Railways in Salford,’ ‘Salford Widening’, and the ‘Grand Junction...
The Lancashire and Yorkshire Railways Collection contains hand-drawn engineering...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23681:
They can be viewed in person on the University campus by making an appointment.
Email: Library-archives@salford.ac.uk
Telephone: 0161 295 6650
We will need five working days' notice to allow us to prepare for your visit.
To help us make your visit go smoothly, please let us know:
Have you used our archives and special collections?
We would love to hear your thoughts on how things went.
Our form will only take a few minutes to fill in, and your feedback will help us to improve the experience of future researchers.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/26546:
Discover an almost complete run of the 19th-20th century journal, Brass Band News, and five 19th century posters for brass band contests and performances.
The material has been digitised from the Roy Newsome Brass Band Archive .
The physical Archive contains scores and parts, serial publications, band histories, contest programmes and results sheets, personal papers, photographs, audio recordings, theses and dissertations.
Brass Band News is a unique and unrivalled resource for the history of brass bands and brass banding activities across the United Kingdom between 1881 and 1958.
This was a monthly journal published by Wright and Round, a company established in Erskine Street, Liverpool in 1875, by Henry Round and Thomas Wright, both themselves musicians and publishers of brass and military music.
Each issue features reports on brass banding activities from all regions of the UK, with adverts, contest results and articles, charting the ebb and flow of the movement over time.
The journal can be used to trace the histories of individual bands, performances, and items of brass bands music.
However, Brass Band News is not simply a journal about brass banding - it is useful resource for social, cultural, and political history more generally in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
Brass bands emerged in the 1840s with the introduction of valved brass instruments such as the saxophone.
In the second half of the 19th century brass bands became widespread, many organised and financed by local industries as a form of rational recreation for the working class.
A pioneer of band studies, Brass Band News was part of his personal archive.
All self-respecting brass bands needed a uniform.
Illustrations such as these provide an insight into brass band culture.
The pages of Brass Band News provide a snapshot of these local industries such as collieries and factories, as well as the recreational spaces provided by many towns and cities such as public parks and performance venues.
They feature illustrations of instruments and band uniforms, and photographic portraits of prominent bandsmen.
The 'Accidental Notes' section of each issue reveals how brass banding intertwined with everyday life and pivotal moments in history.
Issues of the journal published during the 1914-1918 War, for example, feature articles about the depleting membership of brass bands owing to the mass recruitment drive to the armed forces (No.
412, 16 January 1916, p.4).
Brass Band News was presented to the University of Salford by Roger Thompson, one of three directors (alongside Ken Sawyer and Brian Last) of Interactive Sciences, the company which took over Wright and Round in 1991.
The company retained copies of Brass Band News, from the very first in October 1881 until almost the last, and most were bound in sets comprising several years’ editions.
Sadly, there are a few gaps in the Collection, including editions from 1919-1922 and 1935.
Dr Roy Newsome
1930 - 2009
The digitisation of Brass Band News fulfils an ambition of the late Dr Newsome.
These are individual posters advertising various brass band contests between 1850 and 1868.
In addition to promoting the brass band contests, the posters provide names of the participants, what the contests entailed, and prize information.
The 19th century posters advertise brass band contests at Crystal Palace, Clifton Zoological Gardens and Hull Rifle Barracks, and a ‘People’s Festival’ at Hull Zoological Gardens.
They provide a colourful insight into what both the participants and the audience experienced at the event.
From fireworks and dancing, to prizes and cheap trains, there was something for everyone at the brass band contests.
Students and researchers of music and performance as well as social and cultural history; People interested in the history of Brass Bands.
Newspapers and posters.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/node/23826:
Find out about the family and gardens.
Worsley New Hall was built for the 1st Earl of Ellesmere between 1840 and 1845.
A Gothic-style mansion with formal landscaped gardens it was described in A Guide to Worsley: Historical and Topographical (1870) as 'comparable with any of the mansions of the nobility in the north of England; it is an ornament to the county in which it stands.'
This project was a joint venture between the University of Salford and Peel Holdings Ltd to research and promote historical sources relating to Worsley New Hall, built in the 1840s as the Lancashire seat for the Earls of Ellesmere.
The project took place between March and December 2012.
An archaeological excavation of the site ran alongside the project.
These pages provide information about the historical sources uncovered during the project.
The New Hall was an Elizabethan Gothic style building designed by the architect Edward Blore (1787-1879).
Work began on the foundations for the building in 1839 and in April 1840 the 1st stone was laid.
By the time Lord Francis was elevated to the Peerage in 1846 as the 1st Earl of Ellesmere, the building was complete.
The New Hall at Worsley was to replace the Brick Hall, built in the 1760s as the official residence of the 3rd Duke of Bridgewater.
This Georgian style building was located north of what is now Leigh Road, and was pulled down between December 1844 and August 1845 as the New Hall neared completion.
Leigh Road was subsequently moved north and is now situated over the former site of the Brick Hall.
The New Hall cost just under £100,000 to build - the equivalent of around £6.7 million today - and was one of Blore’s biggest houses.
Built from Hollington stone from Staffordshire, it comprised a symmetrical main block, three stories in height with a family wing on one side and a tower and servant wing to the other.
Blore was an established country-house architect and Tudor and Elizabethan styles were his speciality.
Most of his clients were drawn from the gentry and peerage, and he had the reputation of completing schemes on time and within budget.
When John Nash was dismissed from the remodelling of Buckingham Palace in 1831 owing to his extravagance, Blore was appointed to complete the project in his place.
Blore's contribution to Worsley's architecture went beyond the New Hall.
Soon after the Earl of Ellesmere inherited the Worsley Estate in 1833, Blore was commissioned to make alterations to the Old Hall and to design the Garden Cottage, located to the west of the New Hall site.
Between 1839 and 1845, Blore also provided the Earl with designs for the Bridgewater Trust Offices in Walkden, St Mark's Church and the Parsonage House at Worsley, schools at Worsley and Walkden Moor and a number of cottages.
The grandeur of the New Hall was matched by its gardens.
These were laid out in the early 1840s and developed and enhanced over a period of 50 years.
William Andrews Nesfield (1794-1881) was involved in the development of the gardens from 1846.
At the time, Nesfield was the most sought after landscape designer in the country.
He first followed a career in the army where he became a skilled mapmaker and by 1823, had established a good reputation as a watercolour artist.
In 1831 Nesfield laid out his first garden and embarked on a third career as a landscape designer.
Over a period of 30 years Nesfield worked on more than 260 estates for some of the wealthiest and most influential landowners of the day, including Witley Court, Worcestershire; Crewe Hall, Cheshire and Castle Howard in Yorkshire.
The Gardener’s Chronicle described the New Hall and its grounds in 1846:
‘This magnificent residence lies about eight miles west of Manchester.
The mansion is beautifully situated on a rising knoll, the gentle acclivity of which the approach imparts to a great degree of dignity.
In the east may be seen the wild and lofty blue hills of Derbyshire, whilst the fertile county of Cheshire lies within view on the south.
The celebrated Chat Moss lies in this direction formerly covered with impenetrable swamps, but now bearing the impress of civilization.
Skirting the declivity of the park may be seen the famous Bridgewater Canal winding along the vale, which is beautifully skirted by rich meadows and woods, the whole forming a picture full of interest.’
Over the following years, the sloping grounds to the south of the Hall were organized into a formal terraced garden.
By 1857 there were altogether 6 terraces, separated by stone balustrades and accessed by series of steps and gravel paths.
The two upper terraces were designed in Nesfield’s trademark parterre de broderie, intricate patterns based on 17th-century French embroidery designs created using coloured gravels and plantings.
Research by Shirley Evans has shown that the parterre on the 2nd terrace was a direct replica of a published design by the French landscape architect Dezallier d'Argenville.
At the centre of this terrace was a bronze fountain of a Spanish design by the French company Val d'Osne, and originally exhibited at the Great Exhibition in 1851.
Two further fountains were located on the 5th terrace and all three were fed from Blackleach reservoir.
According to C A Brooks in Gardens of England (1857), the terraced gardens at the New Hall were ‘one of the most beautiful examples of the kind to be met with in the country’.
Beyond the formal terraced garden was landscaped parkland which extended southwards towards a lake.
By 1875 the lake had been enlarged, and a grotto constructed on the island, accessed via a footbridge.
There was also a croquet lawn and tennis court close by the terraces, and an area of woodland towards the west of the Hall which separated its grounds from the gardener’s cottage and kitchen gardens.
The expense of maintaining elaborate parterres such as those designed by Nesfield led to decline in their popularity, and in the 1870s those at Worsley were modified.
After the Great War 1914-18 and the departure of the Egerton family from the Worsley Estate, the gardens fell into decline.
The kitchen garden was constructed in the early 1840s and were used to provide flowers, fruit and vegetables for the family when in residence at the Hall.
Flowers and evergreens from the garden were also given out as Christmas and Easter decorations to local churches, Sunday Schools and workhouses.
By the late 19th century the garden was surrounded by a wall which could be heated with flues using the Trentham wall case design to ward off the effects of frost.
The garden extended over an area of around 10 acres and had a number of potting sheds and glasshouses used to grow peaches, grapes, melons and cucumbers.
The Garden Cottage was built by the 1st Earl of Ellesmere in 1834 soon after he inherited the Worsley Estate.
It was designed by the architect Edward Blore to accommodate the Worsley Hall head gardener.
In the later 19th century, the Bothy was built as additional living accommodation for unmarried gardeners whose job was to ensure the boiler in the cellar of the building was constantly fuelled to heat the glasshouses.
Unlike the Hall, the Garden Cottage and Bothy are still standing today.
The longest serving gardener at the New Hall was William Upjohn, who occupied the post for over 40 years.
Despite retiring in 1914, Upjohn continued to live at the Garden Cottage until his death in 1939.
Following Upjohn’s death, the cottage was leased by Bridgewater Estates to a Mr J Whittingham until 1948 when it was sold to Richard and Herbert Cunliffe, who used the building as an office and dwelling for Worsley Hall Nurseries and Garden Centre.
The Earls of Ellesmere welcomed many important visitors to the New Hall at Worsley.
Queen Victoria visited the Hall twice, once in 1851 and again in 1857.
The Royal Visit to Worsley in October 1851 was the 1st to the area for 150 years.
Arriving by train at Patricroft Station, the Queen and her party travelled to the New Hall via the Bridgewater Canal.
In preparation for her arrival, the water in canal was dyed blue and the Earl of Ellesmere commissioned a Royal Barge and built a landing stage on the banks.
The Ellesmere Polka was composed by Heinrich Blumer to commemorate the occasion of the Queen's visit.
The Queen was accompanied by the Duke of Wellington, who was a close associate of the Earl.
Lady Alice Egerton, the Earl’s daughter recalled the Duke’s arrival:
"I was alarmed to see the Duke struggling up the bank, he being past eighty, and I saw the moment when he would slip into the canal, and so I seized hold of his hand and hauled him up.
He did not say a word, but when we got up to the top, solemnly shook hands with me, which was funny."
Members of the public watched the procession from certain points along the route.
John Jackson recalled to members of his family that ‘Prince Albert looked about as tall as me, very pleasant looking, the Duke not so tall but very stern.’
James Nasmyth, inventor of the steam hammer and based at the Bridgewater Foundry, Patricroft was invited to the Hall to meet the Queen during the first evening of her visit.
Queen Victoria wrote in her diary everyday day during her visit to Worsley Hall in October 1851.
She arrived on Thursday 9 October, travelling from Patricroft Station to the New Hall by barge.
The Royal Party landed on the banks of the Bridgewater Canal where the Earl of Ellesmere had built a special landing stage.
In the evening, the Queen dined at the Hall and met James Nasmyth, inventor of the steam hammer.
The next day, the Queen visited Peel Park, Salford where she gave an address.
She then visited Manchester and the Exchange.
In the afternoon, the Queen and her party returned to Worsley and visited St Marks' Church.
After dinner, she watched an electric light display in the gardens of the New Hall.
Following breakfast on the final day, an address was given to the Queen by the local clergy and 1,400 school children from the local area.
The Queen presented Lord Ellesmere with a souvenir in recognition of her visit.
At 11 o’clock the Royal Party left the New Hall and travelled again by barge to Patricroft Station.
The Queen’s 2nd visit to Worsley took place 29 June to 2 July 1857, and coincided with her visit to the Manchester Art Treasures Exhibition at Trafford Park.
Her Majesty travelled from the New Hall to the Exhibition by horse and carriage, going through Worsley, Swinton and Pendleton.
The Illustrated Times described her reception at Worsley:
As the procession quitted the handsome avenue which leads out upon the Manchester road it was welcomed with inspiring cheers by the spectators, some eleven or twelve hundred of whom were tenants of Her Majesty’s noble host, the Earl of Ellesmere.
The Queen made a ceremonial visit to the Exhibition on the 29 June and gave a speech to the awaiting crowd.
On 30 June she made a private visit which according to the Illustrated Times, lasted 4 hours.
Back at the New Hall, the Queen planted a North American giant redwood tree on the lawn in memory of the Duke of Wellington who had died in 1852.
An English Oak was planted at the same time by Her Royal Highness, Princess Fredericka of Prussia.
However, in 1875 William Hindshaw, author of Eccles and Worsley: Historical and Descriptive observed that the Redwood had failed to prosper:
'The wellingtonia gigantea' wrote Hindshaw, 'haughtily declines to recognise the air of England as equal to that of California, notwithstanding its royal introduction, and presents a shrivelled and attenuated form.'
Edward VII and Queen Alexandra visited Worsley Hall on 6 July 1909.
The occasion was a Review of the East Lancashire Division of the Territorial Army in the grounds of the Hall.
In the morning the King formerly opened the Manchester Royal Infirmary on Oxford Road.
He then travelled to Worsley by car where the party luncheoned with the Earl of Ellesmere.
The Review took place on land south of the Bridgewater Canal and temporary bridges were constructed over the canal to allow the Royal party access to the Royal Box and Grand Stands.
After the death of the 3rd Earl of Ellesmere in 1914, ownership of the Hall passed to his eldest son Lieutenant-Colonel John Francis Granville Scrope Egerton, the 4th Earl.
However, the Egerton family was never again to live at the New Hall.
At the outbreak of the Great War, the 4th Earl and his wife lent the New Hall to the British Red Cross Society as an Auxiliary Home Hospital for wounded soldiers.
The hospital was fitted out to accommodate up to 132 patients, and 884 patients were treated there in the 1st year alone.
The large lofty rooms of the Hall were converted into wards, sitting rooms and dining rooms, and the gardens and boating lake were used for recreation.
The greenhouses and kitchen gardens provided patients with fruit and vegetables and at Christmas, the Hospital was decorated with evergreens and a fir tree.
One of the patients treated at the New Hall Hospital was the former editor of the Sporting Chronicle, Colonel Richard Reading.
Photographs held in Salford City Archives show Colonel Reading in the Hospital receiving the Chevalier of the Order of Leopold for an act of bravery.
Reading served in the Belgian Army and was awarded the medal after he was shot in both legs during a skirmish in Flanders.
Following the end of the War and the closure of the Hospital in 1919, the Egerton family struggled with the financial upkeep of the New Hall and gardens.
Hit by heavy death duties, in 1920 the 4th Earl began to break up the Hall and sold items of its furniture and fittings at auction.
Furniture and paintings were moved to the Earl's other properties including Mertoun House on the Scottish Borders, Stetchworth Park near Newmarket and Bridgewater House, St James.
In April 1921, the Manchester-based auctioneers and valuers CW Provis and Sons were instructed to sell the Hall’s library and surplus furniture at auction.
In 1923 the Worsley Estate was sold to Bridgewater Estates Limited for £3,300,000.
Efforts made by the company to sell the Hall in the 1920s and 1930s were without success.
During WW2, parts of the New Hall site were requisitioned by the War Office.
In 1939 and 1940, the Hall and gardens were occupied by the 2nd/8th Battalion of the Lancashire Fusiliers as a training ground.
Around 100 troops were accommodated on the site; training trenches were dug in the grounds and the basements of the Hall used as air raid shelters.
Following the departure of the Fusiliers, between 1941 and 1943, the site was used by the 42nd and 45th County of Lancaster Battalions of the Home Guard.
Explosives storehouses were constructed in the grounds and the Hall was used for the practice of street fighting.
It was during this period that parts of the Hall grounds and lake were used by local scouts, and became known as Middlewood Scout Camp.
In 1944, it was reported that American troops were also stationed at the Hall.
Over the course of the early 20th century, the Hall had fallen into disrepair.
The formal gardens had overgrown, and the fountain was badly weathered.
While the Hall was under military occupation, the entrance gates on Leigh Road were damaged, windows to the building were smashed and there were reports that interior fittings had been used for firewood.
Although the War Department was fined to cover the cost of the repairs, in September 1943 the top floor of the building was badly damaged by fire and the rest of the structure weakened by dry rot and mining subsistence.
In 1944 tenders were put out for the demolition of the New Hall and it was eventually sold to Sydney Littler, a scrap merchant from Ashton in Makerfield for £2,500.
Demolition began in 1946 and included the dismantling of the footbridge over Leigh Road.
In an agreement between Littler and Bridgewater Estates, the Hall was to be demolished to ground level and the debris used to fill up the basements.
By 1949, just over 100 years after it had been built, the Hall was completely demolished.
800 tons of the Hall’s stonework was transported to Yorkshire and used in the construction of council houses in Southfield, Heptonstall.
In 1951 the War Department once again requisitioned a portion of the New Hall site.
Where the servant’s wing of the Hall once stood, the Department erected a reinforced concrete bunker and two radar masts for anti-aircraft operations.
In 1956 the Department purchased the site of the bunker and from 1958 to the early 1960s, it was used by the Royal Navy as a food store.
In 1961, the bunker was sold to Salford Corporation and used as a joint area control centre with Lancashire County Council.
After the disbanding of the Civil Defence Corps in 1968 the building was handed over to the Greater Manchester Fire Service and in 1985 leased to a local gun club who used the site as a shooting range.
Born Francis Leveson Gower in 1800, the 1st Earl of Ellesmere was the 2nd son of the Duke of Sutherland, and Elizabeth, Countess of Sutherland.
Francis was educated at Eton and Christ Church, Oxford.
In 1822 married Harriet Catherine (1800-1866), grand-daughter of the 3rd Duke of Portland.
Political career
Lord Francis entered Parliament in 1822 and held a number of offices, including Chief Secretary for Ireland from 1828 to 1830.
He was a liberal conservative and supported the idea of free trade and the founding of the London University.
From 1835 to 1846 Lord Francis sat as MP for South Lancashire and in 1846 was elevated to Peerage as Viscount Brackley and Earl of Ellesmere.
Life at Worsley
Lord Francis inherited Worsley in 1833 under the will of his great uncle and godfather the 3rd Duke of Bridgewater.
Under the terms of the will he changed his name to Egerton and brought his wife and family to live at Worsley in 1837.
Lord Francis and Lady Harriet developed the Park and the surrounding area.
As well as building the New Hall and gardens, Lord Francis commissioned a gardener’s cottage to house his gardener, the Aviary as a shooting and fishing lodge, the Court House and Police Station and added the black and white finish to the Packet House.
Worsley in the 19th century was heavily industrialised, based on cotton manufacture, iron and brick making, and coal mining.
Lord and Lady Ellesmere involved themselves in improving conditions for the local working population.
They built and endowed St Marks Church in Worsley and St Pauls in Walkden with their associated schools.
In 1845 Lady Ellesmere began a Domestic Servants School and in 1848 Lord Ellesmere established a medical dispensary and Reading Room.
They also funded a recreation ground, later St Mary’s Park for colliers and their families.
Lord Ellesmere banned the employment of women and children underground in his mines and introduced night-school classes for his workers on the estate and a non-contributory pension scheme.
Cultural interests
The 1st Earl was interested in art.
In 1835 and 1836 he spent over £3,000 on books and paintings.
His art collection at Worsley Hall included Edward Landseer’s Return from Hawking which gave the likeness of the 1st Earl of Ellesmere and his family.
The 1st Earl was well-travelled and visited places in the East, Mediterranean and Holy Land.
He provided the illustrations for his wife’s Journal of a Tour to the Holy Land (1841).
Lord Francis also published his own poetry and journalism as well as translations of French and Germans plays, romances and histories.
Lord Ellesmere died at Bridgewater House in London on 18 February 1857 and was buried in St Mark’s Church, Worsley.
He was succeeded by his son He was survived by five sons and two daughters.
George Granville Francis Egerton, the eldest son of the 1st Earl was only to hold the title of Earl of Ellesmere for 5 years before his death in 1862.
Born in 1823, George Granville educated at Christ Church, Oxford and Trinity College, Cambridge.
In 1846 he married Lady Mary Campbell, 4th and youngest daughter of the 1st Earl Cawdor and assumed the title of Viscount Brackley.
In 1847 he became MP for North Staffordshire and held the seat until 1851.
Although a Liberal Conservative in politics, he was a follower of Free Trade.
He retired from politics in 1851 on the grounds of ill health.
In 1857 George Egerton inherited his father’s titles and was appointed Lieutenant Colonel Commandant of the Duke of Lancaster’s Own Yeomanry Militia.
He died suddenly at the age of 40, whilst visiting Mr John and Lady Georgina Balfour Balbernie, Scotland.
He was known as a generous benefactor to the families on his estates and gave financial support to those affected by the Cotton Famine.
He was survived by his two sons, Francis Charles Granville (1847–1914), later 4th Earl of Ellesmere and Alfred John Francis (1854–1890), who served as MP for Eccles.
Francis Charles Granville Egerton became the 3rd Earl of Ellesmere in 1862 at the age of 15.
In 1903, the Trust established by the 3rd Duke of Bridgewater 100 years earlier to administer the Worsley Estate and collieries expired, and the assets reverted to the 3rd Earl as the sole owner.
In order to administer his estates which included Worsley, Brackley in Northamptonshire and Stetchworth Park near Newmarket, the Earl created a new Trust.
Henry Hart Davis, a retired army captain and family friend was appointed Chief Agent.
The 3rd Earl and his family only spent part of their time at Worsley New Hall, usually between July and September.
However, the family continued to improve the Estate where possible.
In 1903 electricity was used to illuminate the main carriageway and in 1908 it was installed in the house.
The 3rd Earl maintained the Egerton family reputation as local benefactors and gave St Mark’s Church - built by his grandfather the 1st Earl - land to extend its crowded churchyard and money to improve the interior.
The visits of the family were regarded as local events and photographs from Salford Local History Library show an archway erected specially for the coming of the Earl and his wife.
A sportsman
The 3rd Earl took a keen interest in sport.
He donated the Earl of Ellesmere Cup which became one of the most competitive tournaments at Worsley Golf Club.
He was reputed to have occasionally played with the village cricket team on Saturday afternoons and preside over the Worsley cricket festival.
The Earl enjoyed shooting and held an annual three-day shoot at the Worsley Estate.
Visitors to the pleasure grounds at Worsley were warned to stick to the paths and driveways so as not to disturb the game.
He also had a special passion for horse racing and whilst at Worsley New Hall, enjoyed a game of billiards.
John Francis Granville Scrope Egerton was born at Bridgewater House, London in 1872 and was the eldest son of the 3rd Earl and his wife, Katherine.
He was educated at Eton.
Army career
John Egerton served in the South African War as a captain in the 3rd (Reserve) Battalion of the Royal Scots.
He also served as aide-de-camp to Major General Sir William George Knox, who commanded the 23rd Bridge of the South African Field Force.
During the First World War he served as lieutenant-colonel of the 3rd Battalion of the Royal Scots and was mentioned in dispatches
On 28 October 1905, John Egerton married Lady Violet Lambton, the eldest daughter of the 4th Earl of Durham.
They had seven children.
In 1912 he acquired Mertoun House, St Boswells near the Scottish Borders, which would later become the home of the Dukes of Sutherland.
At the outbreak of War in 1914, John Francis and his wife, Lady Violet offered Worsley New Hall to the British Red Cross to be used as a hospital for wounded soldiers.
The family never again lived at the Hall.
Sporting interests
Like his father before him, the 4th Earl was a keen sportsman.
In his younger days he was reputed to be a good cricketer and in 1904-1905 he took a side to the West Indies.
He became president of Marylebone Cricket Club in 1920.
The 4th Earl was also known for his interest in horse-racing and bred a number of winners, many on his Stetchworth Stud, near Newmarket.
He was a member of the Jockey Club and was at one time Senior Steward.
In 1928 he became a member of the Racecourse Betting Control Board.
Sale of Worsley
John Egerton succeeded his father as the 4th Earl of Ellesmere in 1914.
He inherited country estates at Brackley in Northamptonshire ,and in Berwickshire.
He also inherited industrial estates in Lancashire and Cheshire with collieries, coke works and wharves.
However, he was left with the task of paying off the enormous death duties that were assessed on his inheritance.
In 1915, he sold the Brackley estates, and the Lancashire and Cheshire Estates, with their collieries, coke works, wharves.
In 1923 he sold the New Hall to Bridgewater Estates Ltd.
The 4th Earl died at Mertoun, at the age of 71, and was succeeded by his only son, John Sutherland (1915-2000), who was at the time in a German prisoner of war camp.
In 1963, John Sutherland became 6th Duke of Sutherland.
Worsley Old Hall is built (probably earlier in the century) as the main homestead for the Worsley Estate.
1748 The 3rd Duke of Bridgewater, Sir Francis Egerton (1736-1803) inherits the Worsley Estate
1800 Francis Leveson-Gower, later Lord Francis Egerton 1st Earl of Ellesmere, is born
1803 The 3rd Duke of Bridgewater dies and control of the Worsley Estate and Bridgewater Canal passes to a Trust
1833 Francis Leveson-Gower assumes the name of Egerton and inherits the Worsley Estate
1834 Improvements are made to the Old Hall and the Gardener's Cottage is built to accommodate the Worsley Hall gardener
1837 Sir Francis Egerton and his wife Harriet come to live at Worsley
1839 Work begins on the New Hall
1840s The Brick Hall is demolished; offices for the Bridgewater Trust are designed and built at Walkden; the Kitchen Gardens are constructed and the landscape architect William Andrews Nesfield begins his work on terraces and parkland
1846 The construction of the New Hall is completed and Sir Francis Egerton is elevated to the Peerage as Viscount Brackley and Earl of Ellesmere
1850 Entrance gates to the New Hall are built
1853 Queen Victoria tours Lancashire and stays at the New Hall along with the Duke of Wellington
1857 Queen Victoria attends the Manchester Art Treasures Exhibition and stays at the New Hall.
Lord Francis Egerton, 1st Earl of Ellesmere dies.
1860s William Barber Upjohn is employed as head gardener at the New Hall and comes to live at the Gardener's Cottage
1862 The 2nd Earl of Ellesmere, George Granville Egerton dies.
1903 The Bridgewater Trust is wound up, and the assets revert to Lord Ellesmere
1908 Electricity is installed at the New Hall
1909 King Edward VII opens the Royal Infirmary on Oxford Road, Manchester and attends the Worsley Review held in the grounds of the New Hall
1914 The 3rd Earl of Ellesmere, Francis Charles Egerton dies.
The 4th Earl, John Francis Egerton lends the New Hall to the British Red Cross Society as a hospital for injured soldiers for the duration of the War
1920 The 4th Earl begins to dismantle the New Hall and sell the furniture
1923 The Worsley Estate is sold to Bridgewater Estates Ltd for £3,300,000
1939 William Barber Upjohn, former head gardener at the New Hall dies and the Gardener's Cottage is let
1940 The Lancashire Fusiliers and 45th County of Lancaster Home Guard occupy the New Hall and grounds as a training camp
1943 Fire damages the upper floors and roof in the central section of the New Hall and the building is sold to Mr Littler for demolition
1945 Work begins on the demolition of the Hall and the bridge over Leigh Road is taken down.
Land is leased to the Boy Scout Association and Middlewood Scout Camp is developed
1948 Bricks from the New Hall are sold to Hepton Urban District Council and used to build houses on the Southfield Estate, Heptonstall, West Yorkshire
1951 The War Department requisition land on the former site of the New Hall and build a reinforced concrete bunker
The Centre for Applied Archaeology at the University of Salford has been commissioned by Peel Investments (North) Ltd, to carry out an archaeological survey of the Worsley New Hall site.
This has been divided into three phases:
Phase 1 , a desk-based assessment and individual archaeological building surveys of all the structures still standing on the site was carried out in 2011.
You can read their findings in the following reports:
Phase 2 , was an archaeological evaluation which took place in October 2011 to find out how much of the Hall was preserved below ground level.
It revealed that rooms and chambers in the basement of the Hall remained almost fully intact.
View a plan of the excavated site .
Phase 3 , was a community-based excavation of the New Hall remains.
In May and June 2012, local schools and community groups were invited to come and take part in the excavation of the site.
The Worsley New Hall Open Weekend which took place on Saturday 16 and Sunday 17 June was an opportunity for the public to view the excavated site.
Access was free, and tours of the site ran every 30 minutes.
There was also an exhibition of archives and artefacts in the New Hall Garden Centre Tea Room.
Archives and records relating to the history of the New Hall can be found in repositories across the UK.
You can find out more about the contents of these records here.
To view examples of digitised records visit the Worsley New Hall Collection in the University of Salford Archive Repository
Holds one minute book relating to Worsley Hall Hospital: East Lancashire Branch General Purposes Committee Minute Book, 6 October 1914 -13 June 1918
These minutes provide information about the running and maintenance of the Hospital; patient admissions and discharges; illnesses and deaths; staffing and finance accounts.
The minutes also include lists of voluntary officials and their positions; rules and meal times.
Visit the British Red Cross website
The Department of Manuscripts and Archives holds papers and letters relating to the architect Edward Blore and the building of the New Hall:
Abstracts from clerks of work’s returns regarding building work at various sites 1841-1848.
Details for Worsley Hall can be found on pp.
1; 26; 46; 60; 74.
The volume also provides information on the parsonage and infants school in Worsley; Walkden Moor School and the Bridgewater Trust Offices.
MS Add 3951
Private Accounts 1826-1850.
Details expenses for travelling to and from Worsley to inspect the works and to draw up plans for the lodge houses.
MS Add.
3955
Private Accounts 1826-1841.
Includes expenses for travelling to and from Worsley to inspect the works and drawing up plans for lodges houses.
3956
Letter to Edward Blore from Lord Francis, Earl of Ellesmere 22 December 1859.
Regarding the new drawings of the addition to Worsley Hall received by Lady Ellesmere and whether any of the suggestions made in a previous letter met Blore’s approbation.
MS Add 8170/39
Ernest Bosdin Leech R.A.M.C, War Diary, Letters and Notes: Book 1
Contains photographs and correspondence relating to Worsley Hall Hospital.
Leech was a consulting Physician at the MRI and was also President of the Manchester Medical Society.
He volunteered as a medical officer at Worsley Hospital in 1914 until February 1915.
Mullineux Photographic Archive
Includes images relating to the New Hall.
Various dates.
E LIV Bridgewater Canal, Worsley: Brick Hall; Royal barge and boathouse; Queen Victoria’s Landing Stage.
E LXIX Egerton Family Earls of Ellesmere: Royal barge; Countess of Ellesmere Lord and Lady Normanby; 2nd Earl of Ellesmere, Lord and Lady Brackley.
E LXX Worsley People: Mr Upjohn , Lord Ellesmere’s gardener.
E LXXI Worsley Pageant.
E LXXII Worsley Monument and gatehouses: West Lodge; Church (North) Lodge ; New Hall entrance gates.
E LXXVIII Worsley Miscellaneous: Leigh Road and Worsley New Hall.
E LXXV Worsley Brick Hall and Worsley New Hall, c.
1900-1968: views of the New Hall from the South, North East and West; lake ; bridge to the island in the lake; demolition of the New Hall ; fountain ; ice house; driveway; New Hall Gardens; New Hall gate house; head gardener's house ; old and new Bothy; boiler house; steam boiler.
E LXVIII Royal Visits to Worsley, c.
1909: Queen Victoria's landing stage; King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra at Worsley Hall.
Digital copies also available at Salford Local History Library
Visit the Chetham's Library website
Holds some of Lord Francis Egerton's correspondence, mainly regarding Chartism, but with references to Worsley:
Lord Francis Egerton's Correspondence:
Lady Harriet Egerton to James Lock c.
1839 regarding Hatchford and Lord Francis’ illness.
Lady Harriet expresses regret that they will not be able to spend the summer at Worsley and gives other family news.
DP/378/3
Lord Francis Egerton of Worsley to James Lock of London 3 May 1839 regarding Chartist agitation in Manchester.
Egerton asks, 'would it be possible to take any precautions for placing the books and other documents at the Worsley Office for security, I care little about the house.’ DP/378/4
Lord Francis Egerton of Worsley to James Lock of London 18 August 1839 refers to the levelling in of an unidentified greenhouse.
DP/378/10
Lord Francis Egerton of Worsley to James Lock of London 22 August 1839 regarding his visit to the Pemberton property and his service on the Grand Jury.
Lord Francis also refers to work on the greenhouse and plantings and a suicide, but does not give specific details.
DP/378/11
Lord Francis Egerton of Worsley to James Lock of London 29 August 1839 regarding the purchase of arms against future Chartist riots and refers to Edward Blore’s 'admirable plans'.
DP/378/12
Papers relating to the Queen’s visit to Worsley 1851.
This bundle includes a tracing paper map showing the canal through Worsley and number points; lists of person’s requiring tickets and of special constables appointed, with correspondence.
NCBw/19/5
Hospital, Worsley Hall and Eaton Hall, and Yorkshire 5th Regiment of the Lancashire Fusiliers
Letters dated 3, 6, 11, 12 August 1917 written by Thomas Hope Floyd to his parents from Worsley Hall Hospital.
Floyd was a patient at the Hospital following the 3rd Battle of Ypres.
His letters include an account of the battle and his arrival at Worsley Hall ‘the splendid mansion of the Egertons of Ellesmere’.
View extracts from one of Floyd's letters .
DDFL/3/6
Visit the Lancashire Archives website
Holds some correspondences with Lord Francis Egerton, 1st Earl of Ellesmere but not directly relating to the New Hall:
Egerton Ellesmere, Worsley, Manchester to Rev Alfred J Tomlin of St Michaels Church, Liverpool 20 September 1851 regarding societies for the provision of additional curates.
920 TOM/512/1
Lord Francis, Earl of Ellesmere to Lord Derby.
5 letters dating from 1845 to 1852 regarding the country’s defence against foreign aggression; Lord Brackley and the tomb of the Duke of Wellington.
920 DER (14) 140/4/1-5
Information about Liverpool Record Office
Collections include:
St Mark's Church, Worsley (L118) built by Sir Francis Egerton, 1st Earl of Ellesmere between 1844 and 1846, around the same time as the New Hall.
It was designed by Sir George Gilbert Scott (1811-1878) and contains the tomb of the 1st Earl.
The collection includes Baptism registers, Marriage registers, Church Magazines, Churchwarden and Vestry records dating from 1846-1972.
The Royal Manchester Institution (M6) - Contains correspondence with Sir Francis Egerton, 1st Earl of Ellesmere, regarding the loan of items from his collection for exhibitions.
View a detailed list of records relating to the 1st Earl .
C.
W.
Provis and Sons., of Manchester, auctioneers and valuers (M106) contains two boxes 25-26 of annotated sales particulars and correspondence relating to the Earl of Ellesmere’s estates, dating 1914-1921.
Provis were responsible for the auction of furniture and books from Worsley New Hall.
However, this collection does not contain items relating to the New Hall.
The Local Studies Collection also holds some newspaper cuttings relating to the New Hall from the Journal of Horticulture and Cottage Gardener.
See the Green Box Newspaper Cuttings Collection: A-Z Halls, Box 92
Visit Manchester Archives
Holds correspondence of Sir Francis Egerton, 1st earl of Ellesmere from 1837 to 1856 as part of the Ellesmere (Brackley) Collection, E(B).
The Brackley Estate in Northamptonshire was granted to the Egerton family in the 16th century, and Sir Francis inherited it along with the Lancashire and Cheshire estates of the Duke of Bridgewater in 1833.
Sir Francis was granted the subsidiary title of Viscount Blackley at the same time that he was elevated to the Peerage and Earl of Ellesmere in 1846.
The Ellesmere (Brackley) Collection - Contains records relating to Worsley and the Bridgewater Canal.
The bulk of the material is dated before the 19th century, and there are no records relating directly to the New Hall.
However, the collection does contain bundles of Lord Francis’s correspondence written during the period when the New Hall was being designed and built:
E(B) 1496 Letters regarding the administration and management of the Bridgewater estates.
Includes E(B) 1496/19 from James Sothern to Lord Francis stating when he intends to leave Worsley Hall (in this case the Brick Hall).
E(B) 1497, 1498 and 1500 are bundles of correspondence from churches, charities, literary institutions and schools and begging letters from individuals.
Visit Northamptonshire Archives Service
The Collections contain more than 400 of Edward Blore’s plans for Worsley New Hall along with his Account Books.
Working drawings for Worsley Hall, Lancashire, as well as Parsonage House, Schools and Cottages, and "Bridgewater Trust Offices", by Edward Blore ca.
1840-1846
Vol.
26 and Vol.
35 contain more than 400 drawings.
View the complete list of RIBA drawings [PDF] .
Building Accounts kept by Edward Blore, 1839-1846
BlE/1/1 and BlE/2/2 contain detailed accounts of expenditure for the building of Worsley Hall.
BlE/3 'Abstract for the receipts and expenditure by Mr Blore on account of Worsley New Hall in the years 1840 and 1841'.
Dated June 1842.
Find out more about the RIBA Drawings and Archive Collection
Holds two correspondences relating to the New Hall:
Letter from Queen Victoria to Harriet Sutherland-Leveson-Gower, Duchess of Sutherland refers to Queen Victoria’s visit to Worsley in 1851, Lord Ellesmere’s character and Lord Brackley’s health.
VIC/ADD A24/303
Letter from Lord Escher to Sir Francis Knollys regarding the 1909 Review at Worsley and the ‘“military spirit” of the nation’.
VIC/MAIN/W141/93
Details about how to access The Royal Archives can be found here.
BW Bridgewater Estates Collection.
These papers are part of the estate records of the Lancashire and Cheshire Estates of the Duke of Bridgewater, Earls of Ellesmere and Bridgewater Estates Ltd from the 1720s to the 1980s.
The full catalogue is available on Bridgewater Estates Collection .
The items listed here relate directly to Worsley New Hall:
Minute Books of decision minutes from Directors Meetings (1923-1975) contain references to the New Hall and its demolition; tenancies of the Bothy, Worsley New Hall Gardens and lodges; damage by mining operations; Worsley New Hall Stables; lease by the Boys Scout Association and plans for a new hotel.
BW/A/1/2-10
Staff Lists (1900-1920), relate to staff employed on the Earl of Ellesmere’s Lancashire and Cheshire Estates and Collieries and include the roles of head gardener, house carpenter and head gamekeeper at Worsley Hall.
BW/A/5/1-16
Records relating to the buying and selling of property.
Notes on The Wardley and Worsley Estate undated [1908?] refers an agreement 21 February 1861 with the London and North Western Railway Company regarding supply of water to Worsley Hall from Blackleach and other reservoirs.
BW/A/7/1/13
Register containing details of sale of land, hereditaments etc.
20th century.
Contains information regarding the sale of land in Worsley New Hall grounds to the War Department 1956.
BW/A/7/2/51
Papers relating to the valuation of Worsley Hall (1920-1921).
Two bundles of detailed handwritten and typed notes surveying the contents of the building.
Includes details regarding materials and fittings; servant’s quarters; roof timber; slating; structural valuation; and a room-by-room inventory of the Hall interior.
BW/A/7/3/19
Household records consists of six items containing inventories of the furniture, goods and linen in Worsley Hall (1796-1823).
These items relate to the Brick Hall.
BW/A/11/1-5
The Mullineux Collection U332 contains ephemera, newspaper cuttings and other records relating to the New Hall, collected by local historians Frank and Elsie Mullineux.
View selected items from the collection:
U332/Z237 Invitation from the Earl of Ellesmere and his wife to Mr and Mrs Westbrook, 12 Walkden Road, Walkden, for an outdoor fête at the Hall, 28 August 1886
U332/Z276 C.
Provis and Sons Auctioneers catalogue Worsley New Hall, Worsley, ‘Catalogue of the remaining portion of the contents’, April 1921.
U332/Z715 Cover sheet of ‘The Ellesmere Polka’, composed by Heinrich Blumer for Queen Victoria’s visit 1851.
U332/Z742 Souvenir pamphlet for King Edward VII’s Review at Worsley 1909.
U332\Z795-99 The Worsley Wail (Being the Unofficial Chronicle of the Worsley Red Cross Hospital, Lancashire), vol.
1-4, September-October 1916.
U332\M64 Printed plan, prepared in connection with Queen Victoria’s visit, showing the Bridgewater Canal from Patricroft to Worsley, 1851.
Sheet 3 shows the location of the landing stage in relation to the New Hall and Bridgewater Hotel.
Visit Salford Local History Library
Holds the Records of the Sutherland-Leveson-Gower family, Dukes of Sutherland, Earls Gower, etc.
(the Sutherland Papers), including other records of the Trentham Estate.
Lord Francis Egerton, 1st Earl of Ellesmere was the second son of George Leveson-Gower, 1st Duke of Sutherland.
Records relating to Worsley New Hall are:
Yearly statements of receipts and payments made on account of the Duke of Sutherland by Drummonds and Childs, 1834-1842.
Provides details for living expenditure for Sir Francis Egerton's house at Worsley, either the Old or Brick Hall.
It also details the expenses paid to Edward Blore for work on the New Hall from 1839-1842.
D593/N/1/2/1/3
A small number of Letters from Francis, 1st Earl of Ellesmere to his brother George, 2nd Duke of Sutherland refer directly to Worsley New Hall:
Worsley, 15 June 1845 Regarding Lord Francis’s establishment in the new house at Worsley, comments on the interior workmanship, the servant’s bells, windows and armorial bearings on the exterior.
Notes that ‘there are divers faults of interior from which the next house I build in the country will be exempt, but they are in general as much mine as of the architect.’ D593/P/22/1/5
Worsley, 25 December 1845 Sir Francis suggests to his brother than he should ‘drop into’ the New Hall on his way south.
He mentions that ‘the terraces and kitchen gardens, however wet the country at large, afford a dry quarter deck to walk out.
The house is warm and coals cheap.
Trentham and Lilleshall at a stone’s throw.
Ask the Duke of Devonshire if it is not all fine.
He has taken to the place mightily.’
February 1850 Mentions that the half the chimneys have been blown down during the recent gales.
Visit Staffordshire County Record Office
BEA Bridgewater Estates Archive - Contains a large collection of correspondence relating to the administration of Bridgewater Estates in the late 19th and 20th century.
Information and records relating to the New Hall can be found within the following themes:
Worsley New Hall - Correspondence dating from 1898 to 1959 regarding:
These records can be found in:
Employment - Correspondence dating from 1904-1911 regarding employment:
These records can be found in BEA/I/7
Situations and testimonials Correspondence dating from 1912-1913 and 1817-1918 regarding the employment of Gerald D Askew, foreman at Worsley Hall Gardens; Mary S Jones Dairymaid at Worsley Hall; Hilda Martin vacancy at Worsley Hall as gardener.
BEA/II/A7
Insurance and Investments – Lord Ellesmere's Property Correspondence regarding the insurance policy for Worsley Hall, including a valuation of furniture.
BEA/II/A130
USIR Archive Ref: WNH Oral History 1
Born: 15 November 1931
Date recorded: 10 May 2012
Location: Walkden Gateway
Summary: Joy’s connections to Worsley New Hall go back to the 1880s, when her ancestors came to work in the pits and in service in the local area.
She recalls visiting the Hall during WW2 whilst attending elocution lessons at the Lodge, given by Anne Martins (Née Alcock).
After the war, Joy worked as a junior shorthand typist preparing documents about the anti-aircraft guns in Middlewood.
Her sons also spent time in Middlewood as members of the Scouts.
USIR Archive Ref: WNH Oral History 2
Born: 19 May 1933
Date recorded: 25 June 2012
Location: Worsley Library
Summary: Arthur played in the Hall grounds as a young boy.
He was a relation of Ted Marsh, a resident of one of the lodge houses during WW2.
Arthur recalls American troops being stationed at the Hall and went inside the building after they had left.
He also remembers crossing over Leigh Road Bridge and dropping blackberries on the trolley buses which passed underneath.
USIR Archive Ref: WNH Oral History 3
Born: 4 December 1921
Date recorded: 26 June 2012
Location: Her home
Summary: Born Ruth Roscoe, the granddaughter of William Barber Upjohn, long-term Head Gardener at the New Hall gardens.
At the age of 6, Ruth, her parents and her brother went to live with her grandparents at the Gardener’s Cottage.
She recalls riding her bicycle through the grounds and playing and skating on the lake.
Ruth recalls how her grandfather came from Scotland to work at the New Hall.
She remembers riding with Lady Rochdale in her chauffeur driven car on the day of her confirmation.
Ruth mentions Dick Edge, the Odd Man; collecting post from the fire-engine house and her grandfather’s taste for burnt food.
She also recalls her ‘Aunty Meelo’ who lived in the Bothy, and the family’s departure from the Gardener’s Cottage following the death of her grandfather.
Listen to Ruth's account
USIR Archive Ref: WNH Oral History 4
Born: Anne 23 July 1922; Bert 6 January 1930.
Date recorded: 3 July 2012
Location: Anne Martins’ home
Summary: Anne Martins, born Alcock lived at the Bothy with her parents who ran the market garden during WW2.
She helped out in the gardens Herbert Kidd ('Bert') was a gardener during the same period and came to work in the gardens in 1943.
He met Anne when she was teaching at a local school.
At the request of the headmaster Anne found Bert employment with her father at the gardens.
Both Anne and Bert describe the gardens during the 1940s.
They mention some of the fruit, vegetables, plants and flowers that were grown and the water from Blackleach reservoir.
They recall fishing, swimming and skating on the lake and the frames and brackets used for planting flowers on the terrace beds.
Bert remembers climbing up the chimney in the Bothy and Annie recalls some of the jobs she did with the land girl.
USIR Archive Ref: WNH Oral History 5
Born: 1935
Date recorded: 4 July 2012
Location: His home
Summary: Terence was stationed at the bunker when undertaking National Service.
Although he lived in the Worsley area, he had initially been unaware of the existence of the building.
He describes the interior of the structure and his role in carrying out various tests and checks of the equipment.
USIR Archive Ref: WNH Oral History 6
Born: 1945
Date recorded: 3 August 2012
Location: University of Salford
Summary: Glen grew up in the Worsley and Walkden area and recalls Middlewood as his playground.
Glen was a member of Middlewood Scout Camp.
He remembers the development of the site from the 1950s to the 1980s.
He describes the boundaries of the camp, the terraces, the lake and caves and how they were used in scouting activities.
Glen remembers riding motorbikes and holding barbeques on the frozen lake during cold winters and how the draining of the lake the 1980s revealed bottles and a boat on the lake bed.
Glen describes the complex drainage system on the New Hall site and mentions the icehouse, bunker and radar instillation.
He describes how the old stone balustrading was used by the Scouts to construct a chapel and talks about the variety of tree and plants species in the area.
On to something a little more pleasant, the year 1909 King Edward and Queen Alexandra came on a visit to Worsley New Hall.
My father took me by tram from Swinton, the trams had only been running three years.
We went on some stands erected for the occasion and saw the royal couple ride by in their carriage drawn by four horses that was behind the Bridgewater Hotel the motorway now runs over that field.
Ted Loder
A E Loder 'Ted' (1903-1995) was a brickmaker employed by Bridgewater Estates
Pages 26 - 29:
The summer of 1928 was one of the most wonderful I ever spent.
The start of this was rather remarkable.
Along with another man I was sent to Worsley.
The order being to clear the generating station which had been built to generate electricity for Worsley Old Hall.
This was a wonderful building, what year it was built I never found out.
We took out motion switchboards generators and a large girder which was used for lifting and ran the full length of the building.
The plan was to convert it to a bungalow and this is what they did.
The extension has not been altered in any way apart from the entrance doors which were very stout wooden doors now glass.
While working at the generating station I had to go over to the New Hall to see Mr Edge the caretaker who lived alone in a room in the Hall.
He told me that he had been the head butler to the Ellesmere family and was allowed to live in his old butler’s room as compensation for his long and loyal services.
Although so many years apart in age we seemed to form a very warm friendship.
Most Saturday evenings I would go down to his room and talk over the or mostly listen to his life in this wonderful hall.
Some evenings we would go down to the lake at the far end of grounds.
It was a very large lake with an island in the centre, you could go over to the island over a rustic hump back bridge and on the island was a lovely summer house.
Many times we sat in the summer house and I never tired of listening to his account of life in those days.
His room contained bed table and two chairs, and in one corner was his shot gun, the grounds were full of game, and many times he would have a couple of rabbits or a pheasant hung up ready for tomorrow's dinner.
Sometimes we would have a tour of the Hall.
A horse and cart could have travelled along the main corridors below as they were so wide.
The kitchen was the largest I have ever seen, and the fire place had to be seen to be believed.
Each side of the corridor below ground the rooms were all marked off tea and sugar, flour, game and poultry, ham and bacon, eggs and cheese.
Coming up on the ground floor the library, the dance floor entertaining rooms the more you travelled around the more breath taking it was.
And my friend was a master at describing how these rooms were furnished and the terrific parties that took place.
To name some of the people who stayed at this great hall, Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra, the Crown Prince of Germany and the Duke of Wellington and many titled people from all parts of the country.
The grounds were beautiful you seemed to be in another world in these grounds.
The ex-butler's father was the foreman stonemason when the Hall was built in 1846, and his pay was 17/- per week.
The staff were drawn from around Worsley, and the pay for a girl was 4/- per week and her food, but as my friend often said, that which was left over from their great parties fed the staff.
He would always go down to the Bridgewater Hotel for a few drinks and many times return to his room, until midnight or even later.
He described Queen Victoria as a very hard woman, the staff being very reluctant to come into contact with her.
King Edward he said was a real boy, drink and women came before anything else.
When younger I had been told many times by older people that King Edward was ordered away from the New Hall by Lord Ellesmere, so now came the chance to ask a person who was there, if this was true.
He said this was true, Lady Ellesmere was concerned in an incident with the King and Lord Ellesmere ordered him away.
This he said was the “death” of Worsley.
This incident happened in 1909 when King Edward and Queen Alexandra came to Worsley to a military review which was held behind the Bridgewater Hotel.
This same period that I had met Mr Edge I was working with a man who had moved into the lodge at the Old Hall and he held the key for this building, at this time it was not occupied so we had a wonderful time going all through at our leisure.
It is no doubt a wonderful building and well worth a visit.
The grounds bear no comparison with those days, they were just a mass of flowers.
From the Old Hall you could cross over Leigh Road by a bridge into the New Hall.
I have crossed the bridge many times, this was pulled down some years ago but you can still see the butments of the bridge on each side of the road.
In crossing the bridge you came down a flight of steps opposite the New Hall entrance.
Mr Edge had the room on the right-hand side of the entrance, his window just coming above ground level, this was so that he could see any carriage pulling up and could be up a short flight of stairs and into the Hall to receive any visitors.
The Hall was a wonderful building in every way, the stonework was perfection in every way, nothing had been spared, the interior was like a dream more so than Mr Edge could paint such a wonderful picture of those days.
In the wine cellar he would describe wines and which kind and year for a certain function.
He would even describe each item on the menu and go through the task of serving food and wine just as if the guests were sat at the table.
Worsley New Hall Servants
Family Life at Worsley New Hall
Building the New Hall

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/library/know-how/your-library-account/return-books-and-resources:
Find out what to do at each Library site.
At Clifford Whitworth - The book bin is located behind the Enquiry Desk.
At MediaCityUK - Please return books to the Enquiry Desk during staffed hours of 9am to 5pm.
Outside staffed hours, please return books in the book drop-off box beside the laptop lockers on the first floor.
At Allerton Learning Space - Please return books to the Enquiry Desk during staffed hours of 9am to 5pm.
Leaving University this year?
Please return your books to the Library before you go.
Use any one of the white drop-off boxes at Clifford Whitworth Library, Allerton Learning Space or Media City, or hand your books to a member of library staff.
If you are unable to return your books in person, you may be able to use the postal service.
Please contact a member of library staff to find out more.
As soon as possible, or before leaving the University of Salford.
Contact the Library for help
Please contact the library with your contact details and we will agree a method for return.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/library/know-how/find-your-way-around:
Our interactive maps, for the ground, first and second floors, reveal the locations of key library services and resources.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/skills/it-and-digital/microsoft-365-courses:
Developing your IT skills can help improve your academic performance and boost your employability.
We offer online training with LinkedIn Learning and trainer-led workshops and webinars to develop your IT knowledge and skills.
Try our recommended beginner level courses or advanced learning paths and validate your learning with a certificate that comes with completing a LinkedIn Learning course.
If you need help with accessing or using the LinkedIn Learning online training platform, watch our 'How to access LinkedIn Learning at the University of Salford' video for advice and tips on activating your LinkedIn Learning account, or contact studentdigitalskills@salford.ac.uk .
You can build on your new or existing IT skills by exploring these structured learning paths which range from beginner level to intermediate and even advanced level.
Completing a learning path shows motivation and commitment, so a certificate of completion is available at the end.
Or you can simply dive right in and pick out the features that matter to you.
When you've developed your IT skills why not boost your CV with a Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS) qualification or two.
Take MOS exams with us and get the proof to show potential employers that you really do have the IT skills they require.
"I have used this opportunity to broaden my knowledge in the applications that are really relevant to my career field.
And getting a certificate that validates my knowledge is definitely worth it."

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/skills/support/workshops:
Elevate your skills and knowledge with us!
This is a great place to start if you want to:
Workshops are added regularly, so keep checking back to see what's new!
Develop your skills

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/skills/it-and-digital/microsoft-office-specialist-qualification:
Boost your CV and learn new IT skills that will benefit your studies and working life with Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS).
MOS is a globally recognised IT qualification available for free to current students and staff.
The resources you need to pass are available online.
With this self-study programme, you can practice in your own time, at your own pace.
Get certified in one or more of the following applications:
Challenge yourself further with an Associate certification, and Expert certification in Word and Excel.
Gaining MOS certification requires a wide-ranging knowledge of your chosen application/s.
Its GMetrix training software assumes a basic knowledge of the Microsoft applications.
Its practice exams test and strengthen your existing knowledge, with tasks made up of a random mix of basic and intermediate skills.
Beginners can join the MOS programme, but if you find that the learning curve is too steep, then we recommend you sign in to LinkedIn Learning and search for its range of Microsoft 365 Essential Training courses as a starting point.
It also offers MOS Certification preparation courses.
For help with accessing LinkedIn Learning watch our video, How to access LinkedIn Learning at the University of Salford .
The first step is to join the MOS programme, and the online registration form is at the end of this page.
Our GMetrix user guide will explain how to download and install the GMetrix training software and how to get started with your GMetrix practice.
GMetrix online training - GMetrix is the free online training software that prepares you for your MOS exam/s.
You can download and install it to your Windows devices, or use on networked computers on campus [Not available for Macs].
It offers practice tests in training and testing modes which simulate official MOS exams.
eWorkbooks - Microsoft approved workbooks, which map directly to exam objectives, are available on our Blackboard MOS page.
You've consistently scored more than:
The pass mark for MOS exams is 70%.
When you consistently achieve 70-80% pass marks in the GMetrix practice tests, you can book an exam place.
Book a place on one of our invigilated exam sessions below - they currently take place online at least twice a month, with additional sessions scheduled nearer summer graduation.
Remember, you must gain 70% or more before you book a place.
This free programme is only available to current students and staff.
Complete the form below to register for the MOS programme.
The form's ‘Thank you’ page provides a link to our Blackboard MOS page, which includes a step-by-step user guide for the GMetrix training software and the GMetrix Access Code for this academic year.
We will occasionally contact registered members via email to highlight MOS workshops, upcoming exam dates, or changes to the programme.
Contact studentdigitalskills@salford.ac.uk if you have any further questions.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campus/eat-and-drink/ethical-and-sustainable-catering:
We've thought carefully about every step in the process from how we source our ingredients, to our cooking methods, to the plates our meals are served on, and everything in between.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campus/estates/travel-updates-and-building-works:
There are several improvement works currently taking place across our campuses and around Salford which may cause delays, especially if you travel by car.
Remember to visit the travel page to find alternative transport options for getting here, by train, bus, bike and e-scooter.
Please allow extra time for your journeys to campus.
If you have queries or concerns please don’t hesitate to email Estates-SupportTeam@salford.ac.uk
Here is a list of current and upcoming works and how they might impact you:
Network Rail are set to build a third platform at Salford Crescent station, a key transport hub located at the heart of our Peel Park Campus.
The new, extra platform will improve passenger flow and reduce train delays by allowing more flexibility for trains travelling through central Manchester and across the country.
To carry out the work, Salford Crescent station will occasionally close at weekends, the next scheduled date is below.
More information can be found on the Network Rail website.
Due to the improvements, from Monday 6 January 2025, University Road West will be closed for around 12 months.
There is a diversionary route in place to minimise local disruption.
During the road closure parking restrictions will be in place on Lissadel Street and Broughton Road East.
A map showing the diversion can be viewed here If you have any questions or concerns, please email: salfordrisesupport@ericwright.co.uk
On Tuesday 27 May 2025 building works are due to start on the Frederick Road car park, in anticipation of receiving planning permission for a modular multi-storey car park.
If granted, construction of the two-tier (ground and first floor) car park will start in June and finish in the Autumn, as close as possible to the start of the new academic year.
During the build, most of Frederick Road car park will be out of use.
Disabled parking spaces will be available (increasing to 36 spaces) which we are expanding in number to ensure availability for those that need them.
When it opens the new car park will be on two levels  (Ground and First Floor), supplying 478 car park spaces in total, an additional 138 new spaces to the 340 currently on offer.
You can find full details of all available car parking alternatives on the car parking page including information about disabled parking and a map of other car parks.
Please also visit the travel page to find alternative transport options for getting here, by train, bus, bike and e-scooter.
We know from our Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) review that there are often spaces in the The North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) and Irwell Place car parks.
Students and staff can find more information on our Hub (intranet) pages.
If you drive to campus, please respect our local residents and avoid parking on driveways and side streets.
The patients using Podiatry, Sports Injury and other clinics on this site will be communicated with separately and will have their own designated areas for parking.
Farmer Norton car park is currently closed for archaeological survey works to be undertaken.
We have many other parking spaces on campus , including 90 designated for disabled parking.
Work is well underway on the new Health and Wellbeing Building meaning that Mary Seacole car park has permanently closed.
If you have queries please don’t hesitate to email estates-supportteam@salford.ac.uk .
From Tuesday 5 August to Friday 22 August there will be road closures on Wallness Lane to allow essential work to be carried out by Electricity North West.
The closure will start from the north entrance of the David Lewis Recreation Ground footpath to the junction of University Road.
Wallness Lane car park will remain open during this time.
In addition, University Road will be closed at the junction of Wallness Lane from Wednesday 20 August to Friday 5 September due to Electricity North West works.
Our Frederick Road campus is being developed to expand our in-house clinics, to support learning and experience and to support our wider community’s health needs.
We've started work on our new Health and Wellbeing Building .
Work is set to finish in October 2026.
Construction of the Greater Manchester Institute of Technology (GMIoT) Building on Peel Park campus is well underway, works may result in some unavoidable noise and vibrations, which may be noticeable for buildings in close proximity, like the Science, Engineering & Environment (SEE) Building, University House and the Faith Centre.
Mitigations are in place, with designated quiet spaces across campus for staff and students to work peacefully during noisy periods.
You can find a list of quiet spots around campus on the website.
Images are conceptual designs and computer-generated impressions.
The construction will run from November 2024 to December 2025.
We understand the work is near to other buildings and student accommodation.
Please be assured we are doing everything we can to ensure noise disturbance is as minimal as possible.
We are planning construction timing, so it protects quiet times in the morning, evening and overnight.
Works will take place 08:00-18:00 Monday to Friday.
There will be no work on Sundays or Bank Holidays – there is a small chance work may happen on Saturdays from 09:00-14:00 but currently there are no plans in place for weekend work.
The construction is for the Greater Manchester Institute of Technology (GMIoT), a flagship technical skills building that will benefit students across Greater Manchester.
The GMIoT is led by the University of Salford, with Wigan & Leigh College as the lead further education partner.
While we are not anticipating too much noise disturbance, there are lots of study spaces across campus, along with quiet places to work.
Study spaces across campus can be found here: Student Spaces on Campus - Made in Salford .
You can find a list of quiet spots around campus here: Campus quiet spaces and where to find them - Made in Salford .
Only access to the current GMIoT construction area will be restricted across from University House.
A small number of times the road or footpath may be closed for deliveries or the moving of materials, with minimum disruption.
There will be no foreseen disruptions to accommodation parking.
There should be no access restrictions to these areas.
There will be times when deliveries take place which may cause short disruption.
Construction will be taking place near to Peel Park Quarter across from University House.
Daber and Delaney 1 are the closest blocks to the construction with Delaney 2 and Unsworth set further back.
Peel Park Quarter is very popular accommodation and fully booked so we are unable to move residents.
However, we’re confident the mitigations we’ve put in place will reduce any impact on your stay.
In line with our sustainability objectives, it is important that the development has a positive impact (net gain) on biodiversity, compared to what was there before.
An ecology survey has taken place on the site to determine the biodiversity net gain.
We are pleased that this is estimated to be +25%, significantly higher than the 10% imposed by statutory planning.
Plans to develop our new state of the art Acoustics Building have been approved by Salford City Council.
The new building will house the research, commercial and teaching activities of our Acoustics Department and is part of Crescent Salford's Innovation Zone.
Work will begin over coming months.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campus/estates/campus-connectivity-plan:
The University of Salford’s Campus Connectivity Plan (CCP) is the major redevelopment of its research, teaching and public spaces and is the most ambitious development of its estate to date.
The expansion is driven by the University’s goal to unite education, industry and innovation.
A technical skills centre and a new health building are now being built, which will tackle workforce shortages in the health and science sectors, and a world-leading acoustics lab is in planning stages.
Sustainability is a key priority and the University is committed to meeting net zero carbon emissions by 2038.
All new buildings will be fully electric and low-carbon and will be targeting BREEAM Excellent plus WELL Gold in some cases.
As part of the wider Crescent Salford Masterplan the University’s development will help to deliver up to 7000 full time jobs and an estimated annual Gross Value Add of £350m by 2040, over the lifetime of the Crescent regeneration * (figures taken from Crescent Prospectus FINAL and Crescent Salford website).
If you have any queries or feedback on our Campus Connectivity Plan you can reach the team on estates-ccp@salford.ac.uk .
We are delighted that our plans to develop a new state-of-the-art Acoustics Building have been approved by Salford City Council.
The new building will house the research, commercial and teaching activities of our Acoustics Department, and will be part of Crescent Salford's Innovation Zone.
The University has been delivering world-leading research in acoustics for over six decades, working with some of the biggest brands in manufacturing to ensure their products emit acceptable levels of noise.
Find out more here: Acoustics building | University of Salford
The new site will offer a health and wellbeing hub at the heart of the university estate.
Our new building is going to offer world class teaching, practice and research facilities in clinical-quality spaces for some of the university’s most popular healthcare courses.
It will also offer public services for the community.
The new centre will be the home to occupational therapy, sport science, podiatry plus prosthetics and orthotics studies and research.
A Gait Analysis lab will be situated on the ground floor.
Find out more here: Our new Health Building | University of Salford
The GMIoT offers higher-level, real world technical education and training across the construction, engineering, computing, creative media, business and health sciences sectors.
The University and education providers are already offering courses via the GMIoT, and capital funding is now being invested at Salford to create a new flagship building.
The building will be low carbon and feature a state of the art green roof alongside a green wall supported by rainwater harvesting.
Importantly, the GMIoT will deliver training and employment opportunities that are co-created with employers and specifically designed for the careers of the future as well as responding to current workforce needs.
The GMIoT is an exciting partnership led by the University of Salford with Wigan and Leigh College as the lead FE partner, bringing together several colleges and employers in the city region.
Find out more here: Technical skills building gets the green light in Salford | University of Salford
Plans are underway to create a new home for our Salford Business School , combining digital connectivity, innovative teaching and smart and immersive technologies.
With a range of flexible, adaptable spaces tailored to the different needs of our stakeholders, the Business School Building will be seen as an engaging destination and key regional place maker for students, colleagues, industry and civic engagement.
Over the last few years, we are proud to have constructed a range of pioneering, people-focused buildings from the ground up.
Now part of the fabric of our campus these spaces continue to be a space for learning, innovation and ideas.
Our award-winning Energy House 2.0 was completed in February 2022 and is the largest research facility of its type.
Inside, there are two environmental chambers each able to accommodate two detached houses and under controlled conditions, recreate a wide variety of weather conditions with temperatures ranging between -20˚C to +40˚C and simulated wind, rain, snow and solar radiation.
This unique facility will play a key role in accelerating the progress towards low carbon and net zero housing design and builds upon the success of the original Energy House 1, which was opened in 2012.
Our £16 million North of England Robotics Innovation Centre officially opened its doors in 2022.
The facility is part funded by the European Regional Development Fund, with additional support from Research England, and serves as a hub for small to medium-sized industries (SMEs) looking to design, test and validate innovation in this rapidly growing area.
In line with our commitment to reducing carbon emissions, NERIC is an all-electric building.
From its inception in 2017, our 15,300 sq.m SEE building successfully navigated the COVID-19 pandemic, to open on schedule in September 2022.
A multidisciplinary hub for teaching, research and industry collaboration, the building is home to colleagues, students and researchers in our School of Science, Engineering and Environment .
Project architects Sheppard Robson drew inspiration from our industrial heritage and landscape to create a building with an external character that offers a modern take on surrounding Victorian warehouses.
Our Campus Connectivity Plan is part of a wider Crescent Development Framework, a long-term vision for Salford over the next 20 years.
The Framework is being developed ourselves and our partners Salford City Council and the English Cities Fund (ECF).
You can learn more about the partners and the wider plans by visiting Crescent Salford .
Projects currently in the Crescent Framework pipeline include:
This key infrastructure and public realm project will remove physical barriers between the communities to the north of the Crescent area, replacing them with walking and cycling routes focused on accessibility and active travel, significantly improving connectivity between these communities and Crescent Salford.
In addition, there will be large areas of new, high-quality green spaces, trees, planting and public squares for pop-up events and festivals.
At the heart of the ambitious regeneration of Salford Crescent is a near five-acre elevated walkway spanning Frederick Road which will enhance connectivity and act as a key gateway between the University of Salford’s campus and the Crescent innovation zone.
Set to stand at 11 metres wide and 220 metres long, it will be a green and safe haven for pedestrians and cyclists, encouraging active travel and facilitating improved collaboration across the development.
Construction work will begin on Salford Rise in early 2025 and is expected to complete in summer 2026.
Creating a high-quality innovation ecosystem around the University, Crescent Innovation will build on our existing world-class research capabilities and help drive further economic growth in the city and wider region.
The initiative is led by the Crescent partnership, comprised of the University, Salford City Council, and ECF – a joint venture between Homes England, Legal & General, and Muse.
Facilitating links between academic, research and business, the scheme comprises 933 new homes, 1.7m sq ft of new commercial innovation floorspace, active ground-floor space, and a new movement hub, along with significant improvements to public spaces.
The site has now been approved, with CBRE advising ECF on planning and Make Architects leading on design.
The work will support our wider ambitions of delivering economic growth and transformation in our region, and make the day-to-day journeys of commuters, including our staff and students, more reliable and enjoyable.
In 2022/23 the station handled almost 1.2 million entries and exits making it one of the busiest stations in Greater Manchester.
The platform will give signallers more options to ease “traffic jams” through the station and through the busy central Manchester rail network.
To carry out the work, Salford Crescent station will close for several weekends between March and September 2025.
Currently, there are several improvement works taking place across our campuses and around Salford, which can cause disruptions from time to time.
To help prepare your journey to campus, we've collated the current and upcoming works and how this might impact your travel and experience on campus.
Sustainable development is a key focus of our Campus Connectivity Plan.
We are proud to be supporting the Greater Manchester carbon revolution which will transform Greater Manchester into a world-leading greener, cleaner, climate resilient city region, improving the health and quality of life for millions of people and protecting our green spaces and environment for future generations.
At the university we are dedicated to contributing to a sustainable world and recognize our responsibility to address the direct negative impacts of our own operations.
Each development on campus is assessed to ensure it has a positive impact (net gain) on biodiversity, compared to what was there before aiming to go beyond legal requirements.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/corporate-information/annual-report:
Learn more about our operating context and outlook, strategy, performance and governance.
Plus, read a selection of highlights from the research, partnership and community work we undertook this year.
Our Annual Report provides an overview of our business model, strategic objectives and the key factors that influenced our performance in the year ending 31 July 2024.
It also covers our leadership and governance structures, and gives insight into the decisions we made to meet our commercial and wider responsibilities.
To view this report you can:
Our focus is on inclusive innovation, and through our strong partnerships we are advancing healthcare, assisting with energy affordability, improving sound environments, driving economic growth, developing a workforce pipeline and shaping policy.
We play a critical role in tackling important issues faced by our communities on our doorstep and globally, collaborating with others to advance social justice and drive long-term systemic change.
Previous annual reports and financial statements:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/governance-and-management:
The Governance and Management section of the website links to the University of Salford policies and procedure documents that are available for public view.
Professor Nic Beech is our Vice-Chancellor.
He leads the University Leadership Team (ULT) who manage and oversee the running of the University of Salford and in the effective delivery of our strategic objectives.
Members of the ULT are:
Governance is the means by which the University is formally organised and directed.
It ensures transparency and accountability.
The University Charter , Statutes and Ordinances set out the principal roles and responsibilities of governance and management, supporting the effectiveness of decision-making processes.
The Charter, approved by the Privy Council, establishes Council as the university's supreme governing body.
The Statutes and Ordinances provide the constitutional framework that allows the University to govern its affairs.
The Charter also establishes Senate as the “academic authority” of the University, with responsibility for overseeing teaching, learning and research.
The Scheme of Delegation outlines Council responsibilities, including those that can and are delegated and those that cannot be.
Governance structures throughout the University ensure that legal compliance is maintained and that finances, risk and performance are effectively monitored.
The Code of Practice for the Students’ Union outlines the memorandum of understanding between the University and Salford Students’ Union, and how the University meets the requirements of the Education Act 1994 in relation to student unions.
The University Secretary’s Office provide support for the development and operation of the scheme of corporate governance as well as related functions, including servicing Council and its committees, and the University Leadership Team meeting.
The University maintains a Register of Interests and a Register of Gifts and Hospitality.
Details of how to request information about either register, can be found under the Register of Interests, Gifts and Hospitality Policy .
Extract of the Register of Interests outlining the current declarations of members of Council and University Leadership Team.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/corporate-information/university-of-salford-strategy-2025-2030:
Our new strategy - ‘Innovating to Enrich Lives’ - frames how we will work as an inclusive community to take our ethos into the next five years and beyond.
We will achieve this through fostering a collaborative, inclusive and purposeful culture.
Enquiry, learning and action will be at the heart of all that we do.
We believe this will lead to outstanding quality and world-changing outcomes that will enable:
Ultimately, our goal is innovating towards a more sustainable, equitable, just, healthy, creative and prosperous society.
Building towards social justice to create a more just and equitable society .
We are deeply committed to reaching far beyond our boundaries to be a place that is at the forefront of building social justice for people and communities.
We will achieve this through partnership, outreach and collaboration with key stakeholders to advance social justice and break down the barriers to opportunity for all.
We enrich lives by exploring the root cause of health inequalities, supporting marginalised communities to address social exclusion, working with policy makers to co-create equitable opportunities, and ensuring new technologies are used in an ethical and responsible way.
Watch our video to view some of the ways our researchers are advancing social justice and creating a fairer world for all.
Deliver excellent teaching, moving from TEF Silver to Gold
Deliver world-changing research
A vibrant and inclusive student community measured through sense of belonging
A financially resilient university growing our income and maintaining our ability to invest
An environmentally sustainable university that supports placemaking
A university that takes social mobility seriously, increasing prosperity and growth

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/corporate-information/from-salford:
From Salford is our annual magazine that features the latest updates and developments from your university, as well as the many great successes of our alumni.
In our 2024 issue of From Salford we catch up with University of Salford alumnus and disability awareness advocate, Azeem Amir, who discusses his amazing journey from Salford to Wembley, playing for England blind men's team, via launching his own business to support people with disabilities.
We also highlight the impact that our research has on peoples' everyday lives, with our It Starts in Salford campaign, celebrate the academic success of our partnership with Into University Salford Central, and uncover the history of the famous faces who have performed at Maxwell Hall over the years.
Never miss an issue when you subscribe to From Salford magazine.
Complete the subscription form or email alumni@salford.ac.uk to ensure that you receive future issues.
We love hearing from our university community, so if you would like to share a story for a future edition please get in touch.
Want to take a look at previous editions of From Salford magazine?
From Salford Magazine 2023, autumn issue From Salford Magazine 2023, spring issue From Salford Magazine 2022 From Salford Magazine 2021 From Salford Magazine 2019 From Salford Magazine 2018 From Salford Magazine 2017

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/corporate-information/social-and-economic-impact:
At the University of Salford, we are committed to addressing some of the world’s most pressing challenges.
Our unique position at the heart of the community enables us to empower those around us, enriching lives in Salford and far beyond.
This report celebrates the significant contributions we are making at local, regional, national, and international levels.
The economic data in our annual report comes from an assessment by Viewforth Consulting taken on our behalf.
This report was compiled during the summer of 2024.
The most recently available data was used, which came from the financial year 2022/23.
Other statistics have been taken from a range of sources, including the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), the Destination of Leavers from Higher Education survey (DHLE), UCAS and the National Student Survey (NSS).
For more information please contact our Senior Public Affairs Manager, John Mckenna at j.g.mckenna1@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/mayor-champions-greater-manchesters-retrofit-revolution-and-infra-red-heating-at-energy-house-20:
Greater Manchester Mayor Andy Burnham has visited our world-leading research facility Energy House 2.0 to highlight the city region’s role at the forefront of the UK’s retrofit revolution - and see how infra-red heating could help decarbonise homes that can’t use heat pumps.
During the visit the Mayor discussed the new proposed Centre for Retrofit which will allow researchers to test whole-home decarbonisation retrofit solutions - from heating and insulation to ventilation - under controlled real-world conditions.
Mayor Burnham toured the facility alongside Vice-Chancellor Professor Nic Beech, Director of Energy House Labs Professor Will Swan and industry partners to explore how Greater Manchester’s £100 million+ retrofit programmes can be scaled up to cut energy bills, reduce carbon emissions and improve health outcomes for residents across the city-region.
One of the key innovations being trialled at Energy House 2.0’s Bellway Homes ’ Future Home has been Ambion Heating ’s infrared panel and dynamic control system - a direct electric solution ideal for homes where heat pumps may not be feasible such as flats or maisonettes.
Almost half of all social homes may not be able to install heat pumps.
A study by Bellway Homes of the Ambion system in the Future House found: “The test results suggest that the Ambion system would be an ideal solution for flats and maisonettes.”
Following the successful trial in the Bellway House, Ambion expects to be undertaking further trials at EH 2.0 in the coming months.
Andy Burnham, Mayor of Greater Manchester, said: “Greater Manchester is proud to be leading the UK’s retrofit revolution.
What we’re doing here at Energy House 2.0 is world-class - bringing together science, housing and clean tech to deliver greener, warmer homes.
“Technologies like Ambion Heating’s infrared heating - tested and trialled right here in Salford - prove that we can decarbonise even the hardest-to-treat homes.
This is the kind of innovation the country needs to hit Net Zero, lift people out of fuel poverty and ensure no-one is left behind in benefiting from low-carbon energy.
“The new Centre for Retrofit will strengthen Greater Manchester’s position at the forefront of the green economy and support the kind of innovation and skills development we need across our city-region to help us meet our city region target of being Net Zero by 2038.”
Professor Will Swan, Director of Energy House Labs, added: “Retrofitting isn’t a side issue - it’s central to the UK’s climate, cost-of-living and housing challenges.
The work we’re doing here, alongside the Mayor and partners, is helping shape a more sustainable future for the whole country.
“The new Centre for Retrofit will give us the ability to evaluate whole-home solutions in a way that’s never been done before and provide vital real data to householders, industry, policymakers to show what works.”
Oliver Baker, CEO of Ambion Heating, said: “Our mission is to help decarbonise flats, maisonettes and small terraced social housing and ensure everyone benefits from the transition to low-carbon, lower-cost heating.
Being part of Energy House 2.0 in Bellway Homes’ Future House has allowed us to rigorously test our infrared system in a world-class setting.
“We’re proud to be contributing to Greater Manchester’s retrofit revolution and believe Ambion Heating can play a major role in scaling practical, affordable solutions for properties that aren’t suitable for heat pumps.
With successful trials now behind us, we’re working with more housing associations and councils to roll the system out where it’s needed most.”
Jamie Bursnell, Head of Technical and Innovations at Bellway Homes, said: “Working with Energy House 2.0 has helped Bellway understand how our homes can perform better in extreme conditions.
It’s an essential part of delivering homes that are not only sustainable but comfortable and affordable for future residents.”
For all press office enquiries please email communications@salford.ac.uk .
Share:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/student-returns-to-salford-after-dream-internship-at-formula-one-team:
A University of Salford student has spoken about landing her dream internship at a Formula One team during a break from her studies.
Gemma Gandy, 21, from Warrington, took a break after two years on the BA Digital Video Production & Marketing course to pursue her dream of working in communications for a racing team by landing a paid role at the BWT Alpine Formula One team in Enstone, Oxfordshire.
As a Communications Intern, Gemma worked with Alpine’s in-house communications team on a range of tasks, including assisting with writing and editing social media content that received millions of views.
Gemma landed the role after impressing the team as a 17-year-old during a week’s work experience that she secured after reaching out to every UK-based racing team for any experience that they could offer.
So when the opportunity came up for a paid internship, Gemma reached out to the team and was able to secure the highly coveted role.
It was a dream come true for Gemma as she knew how competitive the applications would be to work for just one of the nine F1 teams that have bases in the UK.
She said : “I felt so fortunate and lucky to get the opportunity because the world of F1 is so difficult to break into as it is so competitive.
I truly had an amazing time and learned so much from it.
“I think the big perks of working in F1 is that, if you are really into the sport, you get to do a job that you love, and that really appealed to me.”
Gemma was entrusted with a variety of tasks across the 15 months, including contributing to the team’s internal communications for its 800+ workforce based at the Enstone factory.
She also took up opportunities with the social media team, where she had the chance to write copy and film, plus edit numerous pieces of content that amassed millions of views, showcasing her creativity to the team’s legions of followers.
She added: “I didn’t want to finish the internship and feel that I hadn’t achieved everything I wanted to do or that I hadn’t made an impact in the position.
I wanted to leave and the team be wishing that I was staying on.
“I felt like I earned their respect because I wanted to get stuck in with everything and always put my hand up for every opportunity.
I knew I was on a time limit, so I just wanted to make the most of it.
Gemma is heading back to Salford for her third year this September ready to put her expanded skill set to the test in a University environment.
She said: “I’m really looking forward to doing my final project this year, where I’ll get to make five key pieces of content for a client – similar to a marketing brief in the real world – as I’ll get to use some of the skills that I’ve learnt here at Alpine and hopefully make some really engaging content.”
The University of Salford has today announced a new three-year partnership with Manchester...
Award-winning recent graduate Lucy Ryan is calling for more awareness and funding for...
A Drama academic is putting on free writing workshops this month in Manchester for those...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/major-donation-as-energy-house-labs-ramps-up-retrofit-work:
A major donation from a national funder will enable experts at the University of Salford to study the best ways of retrofitting our homes to make them more energy efficient, enabling everyone to keep their homes warm as we head to Net Zero housing.
The Garfield Weston Foundation have generously agreed to fund Energy House Labs with a £600k donation, to enable the team to build one of the two homes, planned as a basis for a major retrofit centre, in their unique Energy House 2.0 climatic chamber.
It is the largest gift Salford has received from Garfield Weston to date and will help to support the founding of a brand-new Centre for Retrofit based at Energy House Labs.
Energy House 2.0 was opened in 2023 with two huge chambers capable of recreating 95% of the world’s weather, with temperatures ranging from -23C to 51C along with solar gain, wind, rain, snow and ice.
In Chamber 1 there are two new build homes constructed using modern building materials and methods, with partners Bellway, Barratt Redrow and Saint-Gobain.
Testing during the last two years has revealed insights into how to make new build homes even more energy efficient as we head to Net Zero.
However, the UK has some of the oldest housing stock in Europe, with 65% of homes built before 1990.
To have maximum impact the team want to create more traditional housing types in the second chamber, to research ways that these older homes could be made more energy efficient.
80% of the UK homes we will inhabit in 2050 are already standing, and the houses in our current facility represent only 21% of UK housing stock.
By building two more houses, the team will be able to more than double the scope of our research through innovation and testing on houses that will represent nearly half of our housing stock.
The aim of the project is to provide solutions to homeowners and communities, including no cost or low-cost options, to enable people to continue to live comfortable lives as we head to Net Zero.
Professor Will Swan, Director of Energy House labs at the University of Salford, said: “The UK Government will be investing more than £13b in retrofit over the coming years.
It is essential we get this right if we are to address issues such as net zero and fuel poverty.
We feel the development of a Centre for Retrofit at Salford builds on our track record of giving real data to householders, industry, policymakers as to what works.”
Garfield Weston Foundation will be a founding partner for the Centre for Retrofit with more details to be announced in the coming weeks.
Garfield Weston Foundation is a family founded grant-maker that gives money to support a wide range of charities across the UK.
In total they donated just under £130 million in their last financial year.
Mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, said: “Greater Manchester is leading the way when it comes to tackling the climate crisis and we’re proud to have set one of the most ambitious Net Zero targets in the country, aiming for 2038.
“Energy House Labs has been a key partner in this work, and their commitment to research and innovation continues to support our wider goals.
The new Centre for Retrofit strengthens Greater Manchester’s position at the forefront of the green economy, and it will support the kind of innovation and skills development we need across our city-region.
“We’ve worked closely with EHL for many years and look forward to strengthening our partnership as we deliver a fairer, greener future for everyone across Greater Manchester.”
Dr Paul Comfort, Professor of Strength and Conditioning at the University of Salford, has...
The University of Salford is delighted to announce that Professor Mandy Parkinson has been...
An immersive audio experience that seeks to explore our relationship with artificial...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/networking-event-to-improve-mental-health-outcomes-for-underserved-populations-hailed-huge-success:
Over 44 attendees were welcomed to ‘Ripping Up the Research Rulebook: Bridging Gaps in Mental Healthcare’, an interactive networking event designed to build meaningful collaborations and explore the barriers and facilitators to improving mental health outcomes - particularly for underserved populations.
The event, which was part of the University of Salford’s School of Health and Society Networking events by the Centre for Applied Health Research, brought together community groups, families, the public, researchers, and practitioners working on community-based mental health interventions.
It was organised by the Mental Health and Neurodiversity research group.
Organisers aimed to create and strengthen a vibrant interdisciplinary network focused on co-productive, real-world approaches to research and practice.
These approaches prioritise low-intensity, effective mental health interventions that are accessible, especially for those who face the greatest barriers to care.
Event highlights:
The event received some great feedback, including the below comments:
'It was a super well organised event, the keynote talks were absolutely amazing!
Thank you!
These types of events are incredibly valuable to understand what work is being done'
'It's been a very thought provoking and inclusive day with a relaxed and growth full atmosphere.
thank you'
If you would like to find out more or join the Mental Health and Neurodiversity research group please contact Celeste Foster or Clare Allely in the School of Health and Society.
Dr Melanie Stephens, Associate Professor (Reader) in Adult Nursing, has been presented...
The inaugural Professor Margaret Rowe award has been presented to Natalie (Nat) Mulley...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/in2stem-summer-school-destination-stem:
University of Salford academics have hosted an essential skills programme to prepare future generations for STEM careers this summer.
Joining from schools across Greater Manchester and Liverpool through the In2STEM and Destination STEM programmes, 27 students joined Dr Sam Borland and Dr Matthew Jones for a 1-week research placement with the Biomedicine team and Dr Marina Leontiadou from the Physics department.
Students were also given the opportunity to learn more about Higher Education.
Alongside showcasing the different career paths available in STEM, the skills gained from their placement including teamwork, professionalism, communication, and problem-solving, were also useful tools for life beyond university.
With the aim of providing Year 12 students with the skills and experience needed to achieve their potential and progress to careers in STEM (with In2STEM particularly focussing on students from low socioeconomic backgrounds), the placement allowed students to experience different research areas with staff from the Biomedical Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC), including microbiology (Dr Nicky Morgan, Sofia Christou, Andrew Martin, Adam Sharples), malaria (Dr Holly Matthew, Dr Laura Brettell), fetal and maternal health (Dr Gareth Nye), cardiovascular (Bethan Samphire-Noden) and phages (Dr Chloe James, Andrew Martin).
The students had the opportunity to shadow researchers, visit our facilities, and get involved with lots of activities with the Physics and Engineering co-hosts (Dr Stuart Astin, Dr Marta Camps Santasmasas, George Dodgson, Matthew Houghton-Ingham, Katherine Swales, Hammad Ali, Bill George, Reece O'Beirne, Elle Kalavsky, Prof Ian Morrison, Paula Courchene and Carl Gleeson).
Feedback from the students was extremely positive, with the majority of students reporting that their knowledge of STEM programmes had increased following their placement (87%), and they knew more about the benefits of University/HE (94%).
They also stated that they felt motivated to study and do well at school/college following their placement (94%).
During the placement, the Biomedicine team were also visited by Helen Liddle who is the Enrichment Programme Manager for STEM Learning UK.
Her feedback on the placement was extremely encouraging and she is keen to use our placement as a model for other universities taking part in the Destination STEM programme.
“This placement is a gold standard for me, an incredible amount of thought, energy, and passion went into delivering a truly inspiring placement experience for a group of curious and motivated Year 12 students.
What made this placement stand out was the holistic approach: not only building scientific knowledge, but also supporting students with the wider skills needed to transition successfully to university.
From understanding what university life is really like, to preparing effectively and collaborating with peers, it was about much more than just the subject.”
Some comments left by the students: “Following this placement I feel more confident in talking to other people I don’t know, and I have definitely learnt new skills” “I made lots of new friends and gained loads of skills to help with my UCAS personal statement” “I learnt lots about the lab and met really nice academics and staff”
The hosts (Marina, Sam, Matthew) would like to thank In2STEM and Destination STEM programmes for the collaboration and all co-hosts for their contributions, in particularly the student volunteers, Maker Space staff, and HANS directorate for supporting the summer school.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/mou-between-salford-and-farrat-isolevel-ltd-confirms-strengthening-partnership:
Engineering firm Farrat and the University of Salford have signed an agreement to strengthen ties and build on their partnership.
To date, the partnership has led to multiple Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, sponsored PhDs, site visits, masterclasses, and guest lectures.
Farrat also sponsors a PhD through the Centre for Doctoral Training in ‘Sustainable Sound Futures’ and supports the Pemberton Scholarship Programme, sponsoring one undergraduate and three postgraduates over three years as part of the Friends of Energy House project.
The Memorandum of Understanding seeks to further cement those links and create even more value for both sides well into the future.
Altrincham-based Farrat is a global specialist in controlling vibration and thermal energy in buildings and industrial machinery, offering specialist consultancy services and the design and manufacture of solutions for complex building acoustics, industrial vibration control and load bearing thermal bridging challenges.
They work very closely with the world class expertise at the University of Salford acoustics department, which has been leading the world with its research into sound for the last 60 years.
And also our team at Energy House Labs who are working to make our current and future homes more energy efficient as we move towards Net Zero.
Janet Morana, Associate Director Knowledge Exchange and Business Engagement at the University of Salford has worked with Farrat from the beginning.
She said: “It is great news that we have come to this agreement together.
“The partnership has been extremely successful so far and this MOU shows that both parties are committed to working together well into the future, as we find new projects to work on.
“I didn’t anticipate, back in September 2016 when I submitted that first KTP application, that almost 10 years later we would be collaborating on further testing challenges, methodologies and technologies.”
Oliver Farrell, CEO of Farrat, said: “We are very lucky to have the University of Salford on our doorstep in Manchester and even more so that they have such strong expertise in acoustics and vibration and building physics.
“I have always enjoyed the open, collaborative and pragmatic working relationships and am proud to see that we are formalising this partnership to foster industry critical research and social impact to develop and provide opportunities for new talent.”
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships - or KTPs - provide a structured framework for businesses to access academic expertise and accelerate their innovation journey, with support from government funding.
The University of Salford has a long history of translating knowledge into solutions for a wide range of partners.
We were one of the very first pioneers of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships over 50 years ago ago, taking part in the initial pilot of the scheme.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/feel-the-science-exploring-the-senses-through-physiology:
Bringing science to the palm of your hand, University of Salford academics hosted a brand-new event "Feel the Science: Exploring the Senses Through Physiology".
Taking place last week Tuesday 12 August, academics from the University created an interactive exhibit of events at Manchester’s Science and Industry Museum, which was visited by over 500 visitors over the course of the day.
Accompanying the popular Operation Ouch exhibit, which is running at the museum all year, Feel the Science was a dynamic, hands-on citizen science event funded by the Biomedical Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC), which invited people to explore the powerful connections between human senses and the inner workings of the body.
Encouraging both adults and children to think about best practices to live healthier lifestyles to keep their hearts and blood vessels healthy, the team organised some fascinating hands-on activities, including:
· Music & the Mind and heart: Test how your body reacts to different music in our live citizen science experiment, discovering more about mind-body connectivity.
· Make Your Own Blood Clot: A fun, tactile activity with a serious message about stroke and sensory changes, where people can create their own “red slime” clot to take home.
Organising the event were Dr Samantha Borland and Dr Matthew Jones from the Biomedicine team at Salford, who originally delivered a modified version of the event earlier this year at Rochdale Science Extravaganza and wanted to increase public knowledge by also hosting the event at the Science and Industry Museum.
Dr Sam Borland said: “Our purpose for these events is to keep them fun.
When we do this kind of event, we found that if you do it in a hands-on, engaging way, people will remember more information.
Especially with children, it’s difficult to explain strokes and the way they work, so creating fun and interactive activities supports their understanding and brings awareness to these major topics.”
Accrediting the success of the project’s delivery to the ‘amazing group of student volunteers’ from the BSc Biomedical Science programme, PGRs (Bethan Samphire-Noden) and Dr Nicky Morgan (Senior Technician in Biomedicine), the academics were thrilled with the level of public engagement and encouraging response they received from them:
“I felt like a Scientist”
“Interesting, learned more than I realised”
“Excellent and friendly staff.
My kids loved it”
“Then team were excellent and very informative”
“Really informative.
Matt really eloquently explained how the heart works”
BSc student volunteers were; Hadeel Mohammed, Zara Batool, Isobel Prince, Faith Obidiegwu, Sidney Nkamigbo, Aya Mohammad Alhamad, Anadil Adnan and Maria Rodrigues Mota D Alva Teixeira.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/remembering-jean-oglesby-cbe-1939-2025:
It is with great sadness that we mark the life of Jean Oglesby CBE, who has passed away.
She will be remembered fondly by all of those at the University of Salford as a leading force in philanthropy across the North West and a notable member of our supporter community.
Jean, and her late husband Michael, co-founded the Oglesby Charitable Trust in 1992.
This was a decision that would see them impact the lives of thousands through an incredibly varied portfolio of funded partners and projects.
Her passions ranged from support of the arts to impactful scientific research and her support, through the trust, has created lasting change.
Jean and Michael’s legacy continues through the ongoing work of Jane Oglesby, Chris Oglesby, and the wider family.
The Oglesby generosity extended to a significant project at The University of Salford, supporting the families of children with Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD).
This condition is caused by drinking alcohol in pregnancy which leads to life-long damage to the brain in children with FASD.
The condition is more common than autism but significantly underdiagnosed.
The transformational support of the Oglesby Trust facilitated a large scale, and successful, programme of support for the parents of these children.
Nic Beech, Vice Chancellor of University of Salford, said: ‘We are all terribly saddened to hear this news and send our sincere condolences to the Oglesby family during this difficult time.
Jean’s enduring support and impact is an inspiring model for how we can all endeavour to leave the world a better place than we found it.
She will be greatly missed.’
From everyone at The University of Salford, we offer our condolences to Jean’s family and friends.
Her memory will remain a cherished part of our community.
You can read more about the incredible life and legacy of Jean Oglesby .
University of Salford response to a recent incident on campus.
The University of Salford has become the first university to commit to the to the Living...
At the University of Salford, we are honoured to have a diverse community of supporters...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/ahmed-aboumoemen:
School of Science, Engineering & Environment
Contact Details
View full profile
Ahmed is a KTP associate, where he is a research associate at the University of Salford, and a Technical Engineer at Valves Instruments Plus Ltd.
He has completed his PhD back in 2022, which focused on the implementation of BIM, and the development of an assessment framework that combines BIM maturity and KPI principles together into an assessment framework for adoption in a public sector local authority client.
In addition, he has been involved in attending and presenting in a number of conferences / seminars / workshops related with BIM.
Ahmed has assisted a number of students throughout their studies, those studying masters in BIM / Project management in Construction / Quantity suerverying, or existing PhD candidates.
Building Information Modeling (BIM) BIM Maturity Assessment Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in Construction Lean Construction Integration of BIM and Lean Principles Project Management in Construction Digital Built Environments Digital Transformation
Qualifications and Recognitions
Ph.D.
in BIM and Digital Built Environments
MSc.
BIM and Integrated Design
Project Management in Construction

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/rukaya-abowen-dake:
Rukaya Abowen-Dake is a Lecturer in Quantity Surveying in the School of Science, Engineering & Environment.
She has over 10 years teaching experience in UK higher education.
Her teaching interests relate to construction procurement and contract administration.
Rukaya has research interests in social value in construction, local stakeholder engagement, construction project procurement systems and related contracts, processes, resources, and how these mechanisms are utilised by procuring entities to promote social sustainability for communities.
Her current research (PhD) focuses on social value in construction and social procurement in public institutions.
Social sustainability; Social justice; Procurement-Construction social procurement; Social value in construction; Stakeholder involvement and engagement; Construction contracts.
Teaching
Construction Procurement; Construction contracts; Construction social procurement; Social value in construction.
Doctor of Philosophy
MSc Quantity Surveying
Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning
BSc Quantity Surveying and HNC in Construction

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/louise-ackers:
School of Health & Society
Known as
Professor Louise Ackers holds a Chair in Global Social Justice in the School of Health and Social Sciences at the University of Salford UK.
Her research focuses on the mobilities of the highly skilled mobility and knowledge transfer processes.
Much of her work has explored mobility in the context of science careers and the internationalisation of research.
In addition to academic outputs she has worked closely with the research councils in the UK and with the European Commission in the development of policy on internationalisation, impact and research careers.
Over the past decade Professor Ackers has applied this expertise to understanding the contribution that mobile professional voluntarism and student mobilities can make to global health and avoiding the potential damage associated with these mobilities.
Her substantive work on health systems change in Uganda includes projects on maternal sepsis and antimicrobial resistance, infection prevention control, limb loss and prosthetics and laboratory capacity building during COVID-19.
Professor Ackers is also part of team managing  Knowledge For Change a charity registered in the UK and Uganda and focused on health systems change:  www.knowledg4change.org.uk
LLM
Social Policy
PhD Social Geography
BSCEconomics

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/volkan-acun:
Soundscapes Environmental Acoustics

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/kate-adams:
School of Arts, Media and Creative Technologies
Kate is a part time lecturer at the University of Salford, performance maker and chair of the board for the Climate Psychology Alliance.
She completed her PhD in 2008 at the University of Hull.
She is interested in how we shape our processes for sharing and developing artistic expression and how we can strengthen our relationship with the natural world.
Kate is committed as a facilitator to developing co-creative spaces for people to explore new creative possibilities.
Kate is lead artist for Water is Attracted to Water, an interdisciplinary collaboration exploring the human connection to water.
Her solo works And By the Way the Cat is Dead and Μα Ποια Π'απια (or I'm Not a Pheasant Plucker) both explore vulnerability in different ways, and these influenced her work on our relationship to nature and the challenges of being present with the climate and ecological crises.
Kate works on the interstices of performance, climate psychology and dramaturgy.
She is also involved in climate communication in the context of adaptation and transition.
She draws on Bracha Εttinger's idea of 'compassionate hospitality' to underpin how she approaches dramaturgy and works with movement, music, humour and games to create a space where difficult emotions such as grief, climate distress or fear are placed in balance with our capacity for joy and our relationship with the natural world.
Practice based or theoretical study Interdisciplinary theatre and performance dramaturgy creative nonfiction in performance ecoperformance arts engagement & climate psychology Science and arts intermedial and hybrid performance
Kate teaches contemporary theatre theory and practice, and welcomes postgraduate research students in areas across contemporary interdisciplinary theatre and performance, ecoperformance, dramaturgy, arts engagement with nature or environment, climate psychology, intermedial and hybrid performance approaches.
Recent modules: Approaches to Contemporary Performance (MA) Performance and the postdramatic (level 6) Professional Writing for the Culture Industries (level 5)
PhD: From Narrative to Spectacle: An Examination of Contemporary Theatre Performance
PGCert Research
PGCE English and Drama
BA (Hons) English Studies
Publications
View all Publications

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/olayinka-adeboye:
Olayinka is a lecturer at the University of Salford with research interests in Cybersecurity, data privacy, data analytics and artificial intelligence.
His research focuses on the privacy preservation of connected and autonomous vehicle data, analysing the privacy risks associated with sensitive data and addressing potential threats to the system.
He developed a private generative technique to address a balanced privacy-utility trade-off as a solution to efficient camera data privacy preservation for autonomous vehicle (AV) data storage and processing.
He is actively involved with students and experts in developing next-generation ML-based security solutions for Internet of Things devices, especially AVs and smart applications.
He develops students to research cyber forensics investigation of emergent technologies and Internet of Things technology.
Security and Privacy in Internet of Things, Machine Learning Based Security Solutions for smart systems, Cyber Forensics Investigation of Emergent Technologies.
Cyber Forensics, Network Penetration Testing, Security and Privacy in IoT, and Programming
Cybersecurity and Threat Intelligence

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/saeed-adelipour:
Salford Business School
Saeed Adelipour is a Research Fellow in Multi-Energy Systems and Communities at Salford Business School, University of Salford.
His research focuses on resilient and sustainable energy communities, with a particular emphasis on electrification and the integration of electric vehicles.
He is a contributor to the DriVe2X project, funded by EU Horizon Europe and UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), which aims to accelerate vehicle electrification through innovative bi-directional smart charging technologies.
Prior to joining the University of Salford, he was a Postdoctoral Researcher in the Electrical Engineering Department at Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran.
His work, supported by a grant from the Iran National Science Foundation (INSF), explored secure multi-party computation methods for cyber-physical systems, facilitating privacy-preserving outsourcing of computationally intensive control and optimization processes.
Adelipour holds a B.Sc.
in Electrical Engineering (Control Systems Engineering)  from the Iran University of Science and Technology (2011) and an M.Sc.
and Ph.D.
in Electrical Engineering (Control Systems Engineering) from Sharif University of Technology (2013, 2020).
In 2017–2018, he was a visiting researcher at the University of Pisa, Italy.
Decentralized and Distributed Control Model Predictive Control Privacy-preserving Computation Energy Communities Intelligent Transportation Systems

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/aminat-adeniji:
Corporate Governance, Fintech and Sustainability, ESG, SMEs performance
Corporate Finance Business Finance Management Accounting Environmental Accounting Financial Reporting

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/isabel-adeyemi:
Child and adolescent mental health research, adult mental health, behaviour change, self harm and suicide Mixed methods, qualitative research methods
Please note I am not currently taking on any supervision of students
PhD Psychology
Health Services Research
Psychology

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-staff/enoch-adu-gyamfi:
Enoch Adu-Gyamfi is a Lecturer in Adult Nursing at the University of Salford, bringing a wealth of international experience in clinical practice, healthcare education, and health promotion.
As a registered nurse in both the UK and Ghana, he has worked across diverse healthcare settings, including paediatric care, adult surgical wards, care homes, and as a theatre practitioner in trauma and elective orthopaedics.
With a strong passion for healthcare leadership, innovation, and global health, Enoch is particularly interested in personalised care, health coaching and the integration of AI in healthcare and health education.
Personalised care, health coaching, global health (with a focus on non-communicable diseases), healthcare leadership and innovation, AI in healthcare and health education.
MSc Public Health and Health Promotion
BSc Nursing

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/salford-school-of-arts-media-and-creative-technology:
We're one of the leading centres for practice-based education in the creative disciplines within the North West.
We pride ourselves on the specialist programmes we offer which benefit from close relationships with industry.
The University of Salford has been named as one of the best universities in the country to study Animation, Fashion Design and Interior Design.
Journalism lecturer Caroline Cheetham has been shortlisted for three prestigious national media awards for her work on the highly successful and groundbreaking podcast, The Trial of Lucy Letby .
This collaboration will showcase the work of more than 300 one-off garments made by over 50 fashion design graduates from the University’s internationally renowned course across two floors of the luxury store in Manchester city centre.
The University of Salford is launching a campaign to celebrate ten years as the premier partner of the Asian Media Awards.
We are proud to be a school that nurtures creativity, values talent, and provides a collaborative space in which our staff, students and partners can thrive.
Find out more about our creative community here, and then take a look at the 'Work With Us' section to see how you can get involved.
Our annual Degree Show celebrates the incredible artistic achievements of our graduating students.
In May 2025, visitors were...
For the last nine years, the annual Create Student...
Industry and creative collaborations, research partnerships, international exchanges, student opportunities, outreach activities - these are just some of the ways we can connect and work together.
Our Recruitment and Widening Participations teams are here to support your students with making informed decisions about their...
Whether it’s hosting students for work experience and placements, offering...
From the £50m New Adelphi building at the heart of the green Peel Park campus, to our MediaCity base in the centre of one of the UK's leading media production hubs, we are proud of our spaces and the creativity that thrives within them.
New Adelphi is home to the next generation of forward-thinking artists, designers, performers, educators, fashion icons, pop-stars...
We have a state-of-the-art campus at MediaCity, one of the country's leading...
Whether you’re looking to find out more about our collaborative research culture or are keen to understand which discipline you can explore – our university can provide you with a platform to explore your research aspirations.
The Arts, Media and Communications Centre bring research into arts, humanities and social sciences together.
A world-first cinematic experience that seeks to fully immerse its participants in its story will premiere at the University of...
The University of Salford and Low Four Studio will launch a new annual music conference for Greater Manchester in 2024, entitled...
The University of Salford is supporting the development of a new live and digital theatre production that is using state-of-the...
Our industry-focused, socially engaged and multidisciplinary programmes are designed to nurture your talent and prepare you to succeed.
The Salford School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology is a hub of discovery, creativity and innovation.
Our courses, ranging...
Take the next step with the Salford School of Arts, Media and Creative...
Salford School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology
Office
Engagement Team

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/school-of-science-engineering-and-environment:
Rising to the challenge of a changing world, our multi-disciplinary courses, research priorities and industry collaborations, will shape the next generation of urbanists, scientists, engineers and industry leaders.
Want to find out how Salford is shaping science, engineering and the environment?
Browse our latest student, research and industry stories.
The University of Salford is building on its world-leading Energy House research and testing facility to create Energy House 2.0.
The new North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) will be a beacon for the University’s robotics and automation specialisms.
We nurture the next generation of brilliant minds, bring innovation to industry and transform livelihoods in our communities.
Engage is a creative space that supports the University’s engagement forum and shares our research, enterprise and innovation.
From festival curation to science communication, our multidisciplinary team creates activities for the general public, academics, students and industry professionals.
Explore Engage
X (formerly Twitter):@EngageSalford
Whether you are just starting your higher education studies, or you are looking to advance with postgraduate study, you will thrive in our nurturing learning environment.
Blending an industry-focused approach, packed with 'real-world' projects and placements that give you ‘hands-on’ experience, you will be primed to build a successful future once you graduate.
Our courses offer directions to enhance your skills and knowledge, whether you...
Salford has a long tradition of transforming individuals and communities through excellent research, innovation, and engagement.
Exemplifying our distinctive cultural heritage, we developed 'Salford Impact'.
Across acoustics, human and natural sciences, the built environment, engineering, computing and robotics, we can help you engage with co-created, transformational research.
SEE Postgraduate Research The School of Science, Engineering and Environment is the largest school at the University of Salford...
Industry collaborations, research partnerships, international exchanges, outreach activities - these are just some of the ways we can engage and work together.
As a member of the alumni community, we are committed to offering you lifelong support and access to a range of exclusive benefits...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/school-health-society:
We are a forward-thinking, dynamic school committed to lifelong learning and real-world impact.
Our expert teaching staff, strong industry links, and excellent facilities equip students with the knowledge and experiences to advance their research or career.
Combining innovative teaching with hands-on skill development, we offer undergraduate, postgraduate, and Continuous Professional Development (CPD) programmes across various fields.
Read the latest news, stories, and comment pieces from the School of Health and Society.
Physiotherapy apprentice Holly Andersen from the University of Salford has been named NHS Apprenticeship Awards ' Clinical...
On July 6th 1924 , in the operating room of neurosurgeon Nikolai Guleke ...
Seven students from the Centre for Doctoral Training in Prosthetics and Orthotics (CDT) are set to travel to Paris 2024 to attend...
Authored by Matthew Wynn, Lecturer in Digital Health and Society from the University of Salford's School of Health and Society...
We’re so proud that University of Salford Physiotherapy student Rebecca McGowan has been chosen to represent Team GB at the...
We offer undergraduate, postgraduate, apprenticeship, and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) programmes across various subject areas.
Our CPD, apprenticeship, and traditional course offerings are expanding to meet the increasing demand from learners and employers alike.
Explore a selection of our courses below or browse our complete course catalogue.
Our Open Days and events are designed to give you more information about courses...
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on X

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/salford-business-school:
Salford Business School offers practical knowledge, forward-looking skills, and expert insights to nurture our learners and support industries.
The school is situated on Peel Park Campus, in the heart of Greater Manchester's dynamic business and technological sector.
We are proud to collaborate with a wide range of businesses, from SMEs to large multinationals, fostering growth and productivity.
Our broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate business, accounting, and law programmes equip learners for a digitally evolving world.
We promote innovative thinking for creative solutions and emphasise real-world learning and personalised support, preparing you for whatever the future brings.
Discover the latest news, comments, features, and stories from our business school community.
Dr Richard Whittle has been appointed to the role of Professor of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Public Policy at the University...
In response to the news that OpenAI and the UK Government have signed an agreement to use AI (artificial intelligence) to boost...
The New Year Honours List recognises the achievements and service of extraordinary people across the United Kingdom.
Our mission is to empower our diverse community of learners by inspiring curiosity, building confidence and nurturing resilience to support every individual’s personal and professional journey.
Through education, enterprise and applied research, we connect:
Our mission is to empower our diverse community of learners by inspiring curiosity and building confidence, supporting every...
To ensure that our curriculum is career-focused and industry-informed, we...
Industry collaborations, knowledge transfer partnerships (KTPs), research projects, international exchanges, student opportunities, and community outreach form a range of avenues for us to connect and collaborate.
At Salford Business School, we are proud of our close links with business.
We...
Interested in studying business management, accounting and finance, or law?
Gain a solid grasp of your chosen field through our undergraduate courses and develop skills for future career success.
Our postgraduate programmes are designed to deepen your knowledge and propel you toward becoming a field expert.
Browse our courses and see how postgraduate study can elevate your future.
Study Business, Finance and Law at Salford Business School Kick-start your career with an undergraduate degree in business...
With a rich history rooted in industry, Salford Business School stands at the...
Whether you’re looking to find out more about our collaborative research culture or aim to discover our available disciplines, the University of Salford offers a platform to support and nurture your research aspirations.
Salford Business School has established connections with universities and educational institutions worldwide, enabling us to share our programmes and expertise with learners from around the globe.
Study options at the British University Bahrain Students in Bahrain and the surrounding region have the option to study for a...
We are delighted to offer a range of our master’s programmes to a wider audience...
Based at our green Peel Park campus, only 5 minutes away from Manchester city centre and linked to MediaCity UK, Salford Business School thrives at the heart of Greater Manchester's dynamic and ever-evolving business and digital sector.
Our central hub occupies the 6th floor of the Maxwell Building.
Here, students enjoy access to an array of support teams, as well as flexible study and social spaces.
Based at our green Peel Park campus, only 5 minutes away from Manchester city...
We're here to help with a variety of questions, from courses and enrolment to research and collaborative partnerships.
The majority of our undergraduate applications are via UCAS, but there are some exceptions...
The majority of our postgraduate applications are made directly to us.
Discover more about completing a PhD with us.
We have lots of information that will help international students decide where to study.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/salford-languages:
A centre of international study and language learning, offering a range of British Council accredited English language courses and foreign language programmes to current and prospective University of Salford students.
The University’s English Language and Modern Foreign Languages Teaching Centre.
We are ranked in the top 10 best University English Language Centres in the UK (EL Gazette).
Whether you are interested in studying at the University of Salford, are a student already and simply looking to improve your English or another foreign language for personal, professional or academic purposes, we have a range of courses to support your needs.
Our English language courses are designed to help you adapt to living and studying in a UK university environment and can help you qualify for a full programme of academic study at Salford.
Our courses will help you to:
If you complete the International Foundation Year we can guarantee you a place on your choice of over 100 degree programmes.
This guarantee will strengthen your case if you will need to apply for a visa in order to come to Britain.
The English language teaching and support that you will receive at Salford has passed a rigorous inspection process.
Every one of our courses is fully accredited by the British Council and we are a member of English UK .
If you have any questions about your course, you can speak to your personal tutor, programme leader or a member of our friendly academic staff.
Applications for the International Foundation Year and the Pre-sessional English course must be completed online via the course page.
Follow the below steps to get the most out of your application.
Whilst being part of the Salford Languages community you can enjoy everything life in the University of Salford has to offer.
Living in student accommodation is a great way to get settled into university...
We have a long history of providing people with the tools they need to succeed, and we've got ambitious plans for the future as...
Have any questions?
Please get in touch and we'll be happy to help!
Salford Languages Support Office Language Resource Centre 9th Floor Maxwell Building Salford M5 4WT +44 (0)161 295 5990 salfordlanguages@salford.ac.uk Office opening hours: Monday to Friday 08:30 – 16:00
Salford Languages Support Office Language Resource Centre 9th Floor Maxwell Building Salford M5 4WT +44 (0)161 295 5990 salfordlanguages@salford.ac.uk
Office opening hours: Monday to Friday 08:30 – 16:00

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/be-sustainable:
Using collaboration and delivering training, advice, support and engagement we will raise awareness of sustainability issues and advocate for a sustainable future.
Through this and our outreach and community projects we will support and encourage staff, students and community to make sustainable decisions as well as helping to tackle social issues such as fuel poverty.
This will be delivered with consideration of equity, diversity and inclusion to support our EDI Statement of Ambition .
Our Sustainability at the University of Salford Communications and Engagement Strategy highlights our approaches, target audiences, communication channels, how we keep up-to-date with sector best practice, details of our main initiatives and programmes.
It also contains our targets around engagement and a matrix of our events and campaigns.
Explore the areas below to find out how you can get involved, make a difference and ‘Be Sustainable’.
Green Impact is our sustainability engagement programme and is run internationally by SOS-UK.
It’s a simple, fun and flexible way for staff departments to improve their environmental performance and promote sustainability at the university, whilst receiving recognition for their efforts and impact.
Taking part benefits the university, including providing opportunities for students to gain valuable skills by volunteering as Green Impact Auditors.
LEAF stands for Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework .
Developed by UCL, the programme works to enhance the efficiency of labs resulting in more sustainable practices.
By engaging in the LEAF programme, laboratories reduce their carbon emissions, overall resource consumption and waste making them more sustainable in their practices.
LEAF has three levels going from Bronze to Silver to Gold, with each level requiring more actions and a greater commitment to sustainability.
Check out the information on our LEAF page.
Go Green Salford is our Festival of Sustainability held around March and October every year.
This is an opportunity to highlight the importance of sustainability, some of the fantastic University of Salford initiatives and inspire positive action among our students, colleagues and local community.
Go Green Salford will be back in October 2025!
Our Green Campus Group is open to staff, students and the local community.
The group's purpose is to provide an opportunity for interested University and wider community members to engage with the current and future use of outside spaces at the University of Salford including ways to enjoy them, volunteering opportunities, how they will and could be developed and enhanced.
Looking to get involved in nature-based volunteering on our campus?
Our Community Growing Space, at the rear of Clifford Whitworth Building, Peel Park Campus is open and available for all to get involved.
We hold regular group sessions every Wednesday 12:30-13:30 so come along to do some gardening, or just to spend some time outdoors and have a chat.
The session is open to all, no experience is necessary - we'll learn together as we grow.
All equipment and resources will be provided, but please feel free to bring your own gloves/tools/seeds if you’ve got some.
Join our Community Growing Space Teams Group to stay up to date.
If you've always wanted to get your hands dirty and grow your own produce, now's the perfect time to start!
We look forward to seeing you there!
The Hedgehog Friendly Campus campaign aims to turn university campuses into habitats where hedgehogs can safely live and thrive.
It’s a chance for our community to come together to make real changes for the local wildlife.
Anyone can join the Hedgehog Friendly Campus Working Group - it's open to all staff and students, regardless of department, age, level of knowledge or ability.
There are opportunities to become a Hedgehog Ambassador or Champion, as part of which participants receive CV references and digital badges.
Staff and students who cycle, walk or run to the university, or are thinking about it, can join the Cycle User Group Teams site, where you can share tips, routes and ask any related questions.
The Sustainability Team collaborates with Salford SU to support our student community with sustainability.
Salford SU have led projects such as the Salford Swap Shop, shared sustainability related content via their communication channels, and are taking part in the SOS-UK Responsible Futures supported change programme in partnership with the University of Salford.
There is also a student Sustainability and Environment Student Society.
We encourage all University of Salford students to integrate sustainability into their degree.
One of the easiest ways to do so is through your dissertation or other projects.
Each year the Sustainability Team support dissertations and research projects by students across a whole range of disciplines.
The Sustainability Office has a variety of live briefs, real life sustainability challenges and potential research projects for students and we are happy to support you in developing your own sustainability research ideas.
The Sustainability Office also encourages students to establish and lead sustainability projects outside of their studies and can often support with funding.
For inspiration and information on our campus sustainability challenges please see our sustainability pages.
Once you have discussed with your academic supervisor or module leader, please contact sustainability@salford.ac.uk if you would like to talk through your project idea.
If you have completed a sustainability-themed dissertation or research project and would like to share your findings with us please send them to sustainability@salford.ac.uk .
Discover examples of previous student projects on our Education for Sustainable Development page.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
We encourage consideration of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a framework to guide activity.
The Sustainability Strategy includes a measure of success to embed Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) into all University of Salford taught programmes by 2030.
The Sustainability Team offer a range of support to help colleagues explore how sustainability is relevant to their discipline and how to incorporate ESD into their practice.
Our interactive environmental sustainability induction is now available.
All new starters should and existing staff are strongly encouraged to complete this.
The course will be available in your modules menu on the e-learning platform (university staff login required).
Check out our 10 tips to be sustainable on campus:
Carbon Literacy is defined by The Carbon Literacy Project as “An awareness of the carbon costs and impacts of everyday activities, and the ability and motivation to reduce emissions, on an individual, community and organisational basis.”
Being Carbon Literate essentially means understanding the causes of climate change and being equipped with the knowledge and abilities needed to actively make a positive difference.
We offer Carbon Literacy training for staff and students, providing learners with a Carbon Literate qualification on successful completion of the course.
Register your interest for upcoming session on our interest form .
At the University of Salford, we're working to eradicate avoidable single use plastic from our stationary, catering and labs.
Plastics are not necessarily good or bad.
It's about looking at what the product is being used for, what options are available and what will happen to the product after use.
You can read more about what we are doing to remove avoidable single use plastics on our campus .
We also have ad hoc opportunities to get involved throughout the year.
To stay up to date, you can sign up to our Sustainability Newsletter mailing list .
Don't forget to look out for our stalls and events during Welcome Weeks.
If you have any questions or suggestions for events and campaigns we could run or support, please contact sustainability@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/sustainable-strategy:
Our sustainability vision - by embedding sustainability in all aspects of university life, we will enable our university community to create impactful positive change for society and environment.
Commitment - we will ensure that the organisation’s environmental sustainability ambitions are effectively embedded into strategic decision-making processes and communicated to colleagues throughout the organisation
Key activity
Commitment - we will be Net Zero Carbon by 2038 through reducing energy use, decarbonising our estate and fleet, purchasing zero carbon electricity and seeking to increase use of onsite renewables
Commitment - we will monitor, report and take action to address scope 3 carbon emissions:
Commitment - we will develop a position and approach to offsetting emissions with prioritisation of emission reduction s
Commitment - sustainable development will be a key principle of our Campus Connectivity Plan
Commitment - we will continue to recognise the value that our green space offers and  enhance biodiversity
Commitment - we will meet all environmental compliance obligations and maintain continual improvement in sustainable operations
For full details please see our Campus Sustainability Plan and Annual Progress Reports below.
Commitments - we will develop a strategy to embed Education for Sustainable Development into all taught programmes in a meaningful way
Key activities
Commitments - we will make sustainability a key theme of University of Salford research and track our positive impacts in relation to the UN SDGs
Commitments - we will increase the sustainability of all research and innovation practice
Commitments - we will support sustainability research and innovation on campus
Commitments - we will reduce the impact of our supply chain through a Responsible Procurement Strategy
Commitments - we will embed principles of sustainability within partnership activities and share best practice
Commitments - we will ensure that the university, as an investor, is part of the solution to climate change and biodiversity loss
Commitments
Commitments - continue to support regional sustainability through our role in local partnerships
Within the Sustainability Strategy we acknowledge the three pillars of sustainability: social, economic and environmental and their interconnectedness.
The university already addresses economic and social sustainability in areas such as access and participation, our Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Statement of Ambition , our work to close the gender pay gap and commitment to the Can't Buy My Silence Pledge .
Our Sustainability Strategy is focused on environmental sustainability; however, social and economic impacts and opportunities will be embedded in implementation.
For example, there are significant opportunities to support social sustainability and equity, diversity and inclusion through our Education for Sustainable Development and Research as well as our Ethical Investment , Responsible Procurement and Sustainable Construction frameworks.
Through support provided by leadership and the Sustainability Office we will embed sustainability principles into everybody’s business as usual.
We make a lot of decisions as an institution, we want to make sure that sustainability is at the heart of those decisions and not a bolt-on.
We will make sure policies and procedures support sustainable choices.
Our Strategy has been developed through collaboration and we will continue this approach in implementation.
We will work collaboratively within and beyond the University to develop the right tools and resources our people need to enable sustainability.
We will apply an equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI) lens to our activities and collaborate with groups that champion EDI.
We know there is good practice, great research and teaching, and real enthusiasm for the sustainability agenda.
We will ensure that sustainable practice is recognised institutionally and that good ideas are easier to develop and implement.
We will lead by example and share best practice to enable wider sustainable change.
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) , or Global Goals, are a call for action by all countries to promote prosperity while protecting the planet and provide a framework for action on sustainability globally.
They recognise that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic growth and address a range of social needs including education, health, social protection, and job opportunities, while tackling climate change and environmental protection.
We recognise the critical role that education has in delivering the UN SDGs and are using them as a framework for action by mapping our Sustainability Strategy activity to the relevant goals.
Environmental sustainability is embedded within the university through high level commitment from university leadership and our University Strategy.
A number of university groups provide strategic direction, support and oversight for implementation of the university sustainability strategy.
Overall responsibility for sustainability at University of Salford sits with the University Leadership Team Lead for Sustainability the Chief Infrastructure Officer and the Director of Sustainability.
You can follow our journey through our annual sustainability reports.
A summary of our performance is also included in the University Annual Report .
You can see details of key activities in each goal area via the links below and through our Sustainability at The University of Salford blog .
We have also considered the outcomes of the SOS-UK Sustainability Skills Survey; we have produced a summary report for University of Salford respondents in the 2023-24 academic year.
In academic year 2023-24 we have established a Sustainability Office and Board to drive cross-institutional change as part of our Sustainability Strategy, which will be finalised in 2024-25.
The strategy, developed through consultations, focuses on three key areas: Sustainable Campus, Sustainable Impact, and Sustainable Communities.
Key principles include embedding sustainability in decision-making, collaboration, knowledge sharing, and supporting innovative ideas.
The new team has initiated various projects, including the Education for Sustainable Development strategy.
Despite a slight drop to 15th in the People and Planet University League, we have improved our overall score and continue to excel in several sustainability metrics.
Efforts in energy, carbon, and biodiversity are on track, with more work needed in circular economy and sustainable travel.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/biodiversity-and-landscape-management:
In 2020, the Environmental Sustainability and Grounds Management Teams, along with colleagues in Estates and Facilities, developed a 5-year Landscape Management Plan for 2020/21-2024/25 .
Our plan is reviewed and updated regularly, and it serves a framework for improvement of our management of the outside spaces on campus and enhancing biodiversity.
It is submitted as part of our Green Flag Award application.
Find out about our progress so far, and the ongoing initiatives, in the video and information below.
On July 16 2019, University of Salford was first recognised by the Green Flag Award Scheme as one of the very best green spaces in the world.
The Green Flag judges described the university’s Peel Park and Frederick Road campuses as an impressive, diverse collection of sites with excellent facilities and features that complement each other well, including David Lewis Playing Fields and a selection of high-quality public art.
We raised our first Green Flag outside of The Old Fire Station at our 2019 Sustainability Awards.
We have maintained the award every year since.
Biodiversity, or biological diversity, is the variety of life!
This includes variety in habitat types as well as species diversity of plants and animals.
A diverse ecosystem is important because of the roles that different species perform for the functioning of our planet; ecosystem’s have a web of codependencies (the food chain, for example) which can become unbalanced if a species disappears.
Despite being just a mile from the City of Manchester, the main site of the University of Salford is a leafy, riverside campus adjacent to Peel Park and the River Irwell.
There are a large variety of trees on campus including sycamore, birch, willow, whitebeam, cherry, Norway maple, oak, hawthorn and London plane, which provide homes to Grey wagtails, goldcrests, greenfinches, blackbirds, robins and more.
The Grounds Maintenance Team prioritise native species for new planting and wildflower seeds are used instead of bedding plants in some areas.
These are attractive to bees, butterflies, ladybugs or beetles!
We've created a walk around our campus, guiding you through all our best greenspaces.
Take a wander and see how many species you can spot!
The Hedgehog Friendly Campus initiative, funded by the British Hedgehog Preservation Society, works to transform university campuses into safe habitats for hedgehogs.
With UK hedgehog populations declining by up to 50% since 2000 and listed as Vulnerable to Extinction, the initiative raises awareness and encourages staff and students to address threats like habitat loss, pollution, and road dangers.
The University of Salford has achieved platinum accreditation in 2023-24 for our efforts in hazard management, habitat creation, and community engagement.
We conduct a number of hedgehog surveys as part of the Hedgehog Friendly Campus programme including utilising footprint tunnels.
We also run an annual two-day BioBlitz event in collaboration with the Salford Ranger Team and often our very own academics do specialist sessions.
From March-September we conduct bee and butterfly walks to monitor our populations of key pollinatorsand so far we have identified 6 species of bee and 3 species of butterfly.
If you see any wildlife on campus, please let us know!
We have an iNaturalist Project page where you can upload pictures to precise locations, and other people can help you identify the species.
Remember to click 'join' on the page to keep coming back to it.
This is really valuable information for us to help provide for our species.
Use these websites to help you correctly identify what you see:
Our annual sustainability engagement programme, Go Green Salford , has over the years included lots events relating to biodiversity, including a winter tree identification walk, hedge-laying and tree planting sessions with City of Trees at David Lewis Playing Fields and Crescent Meadows (in total we planted over 700 tree whips!).
We are planning more tree-planting projects in the future...
Bird boxes are located on some trees across the Peel Park campus, including in the Clifford Whitworth Library courtyard, which also contains two small bug hotels.
The IGNITION Living Lab also features a number of bug hotels and bird houses on the Living Wall.
Another research facility on Peel Park campus, the Z House, also features houses for swifts, bats, and hedgehogs, as well as an insect hotel.
We continue to aim to increase the provision of bird boxes, bug hotels and other wildlife habitats on campus.
Green Campus Group was established to share information and engage with the University community about the current and potential use of outside spaces on campus, including how they will and could be developed and enhanced.
The group is open to all staff, students and the local community.
You can find out more in the Green Campus Group Terms of Reference , and join the Green Campus Group Teams site.
In previous Green Campus Group meetings, we have asked for suggestions for improvements and asked participants to pick their top three suggestions, so that we can initially focus on taking these ideas forward.
The Salford Tree Trail was first developed for the university campus in 2011 by one of our postgraduate students.
The original trail has been updated and developed into what is now known as the Salford Tree Trail .
It incorporates 25 trees and takes users around the main campus, Peel Park, David Lewis Playing Fields and Crescent Meadows.
The Tree Trail webpage includes a map, suggested routes and details of the tree species.
Each tree along the trail has its own plaque with a QR code, which can be scanned to directly access information about each species.
The current version of the Salford Tree Trail is a result of collaboration between various teams from within and around our university, including the Environmental Sustainability Team, Salford Ranger Team, Maker Space, and students from the School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology.
Friends of Peel Park Facebook
Salford Litter Heroes Facebook
Salford Ranger Team Event listings

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/green-impact:
Green Impact is an opportunity to:
Green Impact helps to reduce the environmental impacts of offices at the university - find out more in the video below.
We also have specialist Green Impact toolkits for those based in labs and catering outlets.
Staff form teams across the university and work through an online toolkit of actions together.
A team can be any size and can cover an office, building, department, or even a whole school or division.
Once they have submitted their toolkits, teams are audited by trained students to ensure their submissions are accurate and to provide them with extra support.
All participating teams will be invited to an award ceremony, where we will present the awards: Working Towards Bronze , Bronze , Silver , Gold and Platinum , as well as special awards such as Sustainability Hero Award and Team Innovation Award .
The Green Impact action toolkit contains actions within different sustainability themes, including:
There are also specialist toolkits for teams who are based in labs and catering outlets.
These toolkits provide more appropriate sustainability actions for these departments.
Each action is allocated either 5, 10 or 15 points, and the team decides which actions to complete.
The total number of points a team achieves will determine whether they receive a “working towards Bronze” accreditation, or an award: Bronze, Silver, Gold or Platinum.
As well as completing actions, teams have the option to implement their own projects, and they can receive up to 50 points for each project.
One of the most important aspects of Green Impact is the audits, which are carried out my trained students in October.
Student auditors will visit the teams that have taken part in Green Impact and audit them, checking that they have completed the actions from the toolkit they have submitted.
This is a great short-term volunteering opportunity, where you can gain the skills and knowledge associated with auditing, gain valuable employability skills and make a positive impact.
Each volunteer auditor will be fully trained on the toolkit and what they need to do in order to audit through a half-day of training.
This is an  Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA) approved course.
Auditors will then complete one or more audit in pairs.
An audit should take around an hour to complete depending on the size of the department.
If you are interested in becoming a Green Impact Auditor, please email the Sustainability Team in September and we will send you the application form.
If you are new to Green Impact, you can join an existing team if there is one in your area, or set up a new team if there is not.
If setting up a new team, please contact the Sustainability Team .
You will need to register by visiting the Green Impact registration page.
Once you have a team set up, we recommend meeting up and making a plan, and initially completing the ‘Getting Started’ actions.
You can then start completing actions in your relevant toolkit, and/or projects if you wish.
You will also need to join the Green Impact Microsoft Teams group .
The Sustainability Team will provide you with useful resources and guidance and can come and meet with your teams.
There is a video, help page and user guide to assist you with using the toolkit and SOS-UK have an online resource bank.
We also have a Microsoft Teams group where participants can ask questions and share resources, ideas and events.
If you have any questions about Green Impact, please contact the Sustainability Team .
The toolkit is really flexible so it is up to you how much time you put into it.
You could do just a few actions and receive a ‘working towards Bronze’ accreditation, or you might like to concentrate on your own projects and build up points this way.
We have made the toolkit really flexible so that all staff at the university can engage with the programme.
Find out about the results of previous Green Impact cycles:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/reuse:
Originally launched in 2015, Warp It was implemented to drive environmental benefits by redistributing surplus assets across our departments.
Over the years, this system has helped us repurpose over 3,000 items , generating total savings of over £250,000 .
Through the program we have also connected with not for profit groups and donated items that couldn’t be reused internally such as kitchenware to a homeless shelter, chairs to schools in Nigeria and flower planters to a community project.
Our environmental savings are also significant as we have saved over 150,000 KG of carbon equivalent which arises from avoiding buying new items and emissions saved from waste disposal.
We continue to encourage reuse in the university to support our sustainability goal of reducing the amount of waste we produce, and carbon emissions.
We are members of Warp It (Waste Action Reuse Portal), a redistribution network that works in a similar way to Ebay or Freecycle, but for organisations.
Warp It makes it easy for departments to give away, loan and claim items unwanted by others within the organisation and beyond to other universities, hospitals and schools.
Currently the site is only open to staff members, not students.
Everything can be reused; tables, chairs, stationery and shelves or those random bits in the corner of your office that no one knows how they got there...!
The only exception is digital equipment which should be sent to IT, or please discuss with your Building Manager if you aren't sure.
What now?
If you have any surplus items in your office get them added to the system, or if you are buying something new this week search Warp It to make sure someone else does not have it spare!
We recommend listing the item for 2 months and if no one claims it then speak to your Building Manager to dispose of it.
How do I register?
Register at our Salford portal
How to use
Are you involved with a local charity, community group, faith service or club?
Are you looking for furniture or other resources for your activities?
Look no further!
Through Warp It we can connect and transfer our surplus assets to you for free at the charity sign up page.
You must be any group delivering a social objective to join so sports clubs, scouts and brownies, or any groups with community outreach can join.
We also frequently work with schools to donate our equipment so don’t hesitate to talk to your local school and put them in touch with us, they can sign up at the school sign up page.
Zoe Pegg, Environmental Management Assistant leads on reuse z.m.pegg1@salford.ac.uk Warp It software enquiries info@warp-it.co.uk
Zoe Pegg, Environmental Management Assistant leads on reuse
Warp It software enquiries

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/carbon-energy-and-water:
In line with the science-based target for Greater Manchester , the university is committed to achieving Net Zero Carbon by 2038.
By 2038, the University of Salford will have achieved a decarbonised campus, with scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reduced by 96% from the 2005/2006 baseline, marking a transformative shift towards a sustainable, low-carbon future.
Fossil fuels will be a practice of the past, replaced by clean, renewable energy sources such as air source heat pumps and solar photovoltaics.
State-of-the-art building management systems will optimise energy use across high-performing, energy-efficient buildings.
An energy-conscious culture will be deeply ingrained, with the entire university community actively participating in and benefiting from these decarbonisation efforts, positioning the institution as a leader in the critical transition to a sustainable tomorrow.
In alignment with our overarching Environmental Sustainability Policy we make a commitment to achieving continual improvement of our energy and water performance and energy management system using the ISO 50001 framework to which our system was certified to in late 2019.
Our Energy and Water Policy sets out our approach.
In 2011, we launched our first Carbon Management Plan with targets to reduce scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 43% by September 2020 compared to a 2005/06 baseline.
As of end of academic year 2022/23 we had already reduced our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 70%.
This has been achieved partly through reductions in energy use through investment, partly through reductions in the grid electricity emissions factor, and also partly through our divestment of our student accommodation in 2007/08.
Our Net Zero Carbon Plan builds on our significant progress in carbon reduction to ensure we can achieve our objective of an 81% reduction in scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 2030 and work towards net zero carbon by 2038 in line with the Greater Manchester carbon reduction strategy.
The University of Salford Net Zero Carbon Plan .
This plan is under regular review using our Net Zero Carbon Planning Tool and financed via internal funding obtained via project businesses cases, Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme funding and an internal 'energy-gains' fund where 50% of identified energy savings are reinvested.
For 2025-26 to 2027-28, over £3m is available to support Net Zero Carbon projects.
Scope 3 carbon emissions account for nearly 90% of the university’s total emissions and we recognise the impact of these emissions and have committed to improving our monitoring and measuring of these and setting reduction targets where possible.
View our Addendum to our Energy, Water and Carbon Management Plan with our baseline and targets for our Scope 3 emissions .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/construction-and-refurbishment:
We recognise that sustainability is part of a high performance building design process and so embed sustainability throughout the design and construction process.
Clear sustainability requirements for each project are adopted and communicated to all people involved in the design process including key consultants and contractors.
We enable sustainable construction through our Sustainable Construction Policy implemented through our procurement policies and processes and manage contractors onsite through our Contractor Management Code of Practice.
Our Sustainable Construction Policy provides a framework for sustainability in our construction projects.
Our objectives are:
In delivering our commitment, all new building and major refurbishment projects will be assessed under formal sustainability schemes such as the Building Research Establishments (BREEAM) or Ska methodology to ensure energy efficiency and sustainability is maximised.
The decision to proceed with the particular scheme and rating (BREEAM/Ska) will be made following a feasibility stage cost and benefits analysis.
As a minimum ALL projects should meet the University of Salford Energy Design Standard.
As a Future Enabler, one of the key pan-university projects that will enable us to deliver the university’s vision, is our Campus Masterplan .
Our aspirational vision for the next two decades will tap into the area’s unique potential to deliver a place to learn, live, work and visit.
Our campus will link with local industry, as well as cultural and residential schemes to create a city district that enhances surrounding communities and helps to drive the economy both locally and regionally.
Environmental sustainability is a core element of the Campus Masterplan.
Central to the plans is an energy strategy that takes a major step towards a zero carbon future, while providing high quality spaces for residential, teaching, research and commercial uses that are cost-effective to run.
University of Salford buildings will undergo refurbishment to make them highly energy efficient, with maximum potential for renewable energy generation.
To find out more about our Energy Strategy see our Carbon, Energy and Water pages.
The Masterplan will also look for opportunities for new green spaces in our urban environment to help promote learning, wellbeing and healthy lifestyles as well as consolidating and rationalising car-parking to reduce internal car circulation and promote a healthier, more pedestrian-friendly campus.
The vision also promotes greater levels of cycling in and around the site.
Improved pedestrian connections will be key to improving permeability across the campus – think tree-lined boulevards, public squares and a generally more well-defined network of routes and open spaces.
This building provides a new home on Peel Park Campus for the departments of music, performing arts and art & design, which were previously spread across several sites.
The building facilitates creative cross-disciplinary working which enables the University to offer unique educational opportunities to students.
Technical facilities include a 350 capacity flexible theatre; two TV acting studios; performance rehearsal studios; six industry standard recording studios; 12 amplified music performance studios; 14 instrumental music tuition rooms; and a 100m2 ‘big band’ room.
Flexible open-plan studios are accommodated on the upper storeys.
A public atrium allows pedestrian routes through the building, as well as providing a café, multiple group working spaces and vertical circulation.
The double-height steel truss rings that make up the perimeter of the upper two storeys create a gateway from Salford Crescent to the rest of Peel Campus.
The building achieved BREEAM Excellent and included the key innovative features and low-impact design features:
In 2016 and 2017, our Clifford Whitworth Library underwent a major refurbishment.
The theme of the refurbishment was the “library in the park”, celebrating the fact that the University of Salford benefits from an attractive green campus, overlooking the historic Peel Park (the first municipal park in the UK).
The design incorporated elements which drew playfully upon this theme, such as a raised garden area with deck chairs, and park “pavilions” providing a focal point for activity on each floor.
Previously, rather rigid study areas were replaced with light and airy spaces, with a variety of attractive technology-enabled study areas which allow students the freedom to learn in ways that feel comfortable.
As well as these benefits for the health and well-being for the users, extensive LED lighting was installed with a dimming facility attached to presence detection to enable energy savings of approximately 20% on the previous lighting design, giving 1.5 tonnes of carbon savings a year.
Working with the local community, the University, Salford City Council and the EA identified an opportunity to come together to use land owned by the University and the council to create a basin that will manage peak flows in the river Irwell, reducing the risk of flooding.
The land which was the University’s sports fields was excavated with the material used to build an embankment around the basin.
Rising river water flows over an inlet weir and is retained by penstocks until levels downstream subside and the water can be safely released back into the river.
Works started on the project in March 2015 following extensive consultation with local community and environmental groups.
Monthly sessions have continued over the life of the project with the feedback from community groups developing the end product.
Examples of this include improved access arrangements, interpretation, habitat development eg otter holt provision and artworks.
The anticipated financial benefit to the local area from the scheme is at least £12m, including avoided costs of rehabilitation after flood events.
In addition to reducing the flood risk from 1:75 to1:100 years, the scheme has created a 5.5ha wetland habitation, designed by The Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust with input from the community steering group.
Approx.
5km of new paths have been created around the basin which will provide a valuable asset for the local community.
As part of the negotiations the University has agreed to exchange its sports pitches for council owned pitches adjoining the University campus.
Whereas the University pitches have been exclusively for student use, all the pitches will be available to the community.
The University’s grounds maintenance regime has improved the quality of the community pitches and will continue to improve the amenity value.
Recently a 3G pitch has been added and the development of which included tree planting in line with our 2 for 1 tree replacement policy and a flood lighting scheme which was designed to be sensitive to bat activity in the area.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/waste:
Waste and recycling is one of the most visible areas in the sustainability agenda and can demonstrate our commitment to staff, students and visitors as well as offering an opportunity for people to easily get involved in environmental improvement.
Behind the scenes we are deeply committed to the development of sustainable waste management practices, as highlighted in our Environmental Sustainability Policy , and make it as easy as possible for the university community to engage with sustainable waste disposal.
In the academic year 2023/24 we produced 482 tonnes of waste (excluding construction waste), which is down from 931 tonnes in 2016/17.
We have worked with our waste contractors to divert as much waste as possible from landfill, and the majority is now sent for incineration and energy recovery.
Our recycle rate for 2023/24 was 42%.
When we average this, it means a full-time staff or student produces 18kg of waste at the university every year, which is half what it was from 2018/19.
We have concluded this is because we are using significantly less paper and we are reusing furniture.
Waste management - is coordinated by the Estates and Facilities Division in accordance with the waste and recycling service level agreement.
All members of staff in the Estates Division are trained on responsible waste management by the Environmental Sustainability Team and refreshed annually.
Please refer to the Waste and Recycling Service Level Agreement if you have any queries about the support we provide.
Construction waste - the amount of construction waste generated each year varies immensely depending on the campus development at the time, therefore a target for reduction of this is not achievable; however we encourage contractors to aim for at least 90% recycling.
The objectives of our Waste Management Plan are to:
Our targets:
Please see the links at the bottom of the page for detailed information on each of our targets.
At the University we have a zero to landfill operation; instead, our waste is burnt to produce energy.
Although this is a preferred method to landfill, it still has an impact on our planet, so we promote other waste management actions through our waste hierarchy
The waste hierarchy means we consider waste reduction and reuse before recycling and waste disposal.
We contribute to the circular economy and life cycle thinking within sustainable purchasing and actively work to use equipment we already have when furnishing new areas.
This is also achieved by encouraging staff to browse our surplus assets through Warp It, our reuse portal, so any bits and pieces they might need for their office or classrooms could be found on this site.
For more information on Warp It go to our reuse page.
How to reduce and reuse waste
How to recycle
How we are reducing single use plastics

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/sustainable-travel:
We encourage staff and students to travel as sustainably as possible and where possible look at alternatives to reduce the impact of your travel.
For research related to active travel and sustainable transport, learn about the Healthy Active Cities research group .
It brings researchers from the University of Salford together with practitioners and policymakers to discuss issues in sustainable transport.
If you live within two miles of the university or your destination, walking is a great way to travel here as it will help keep you fit, benefit the environment and is of course, free!
For those who travel here by other means, it can still be incorporated into your day, such as walking between buildings or to and from the train station or bus stop.
Walking also promotes clear, creative thinking so why not have a walking meeting around our beautiful campus.
All of these short trips will boost health and fitness, burn calories and reduce the carbon we produce from travel.
Why not try out our Tree Trail around our campus and Peel Park.
There are around 400 spaces to park cycles across all of the University campuses.
The majority are contained within secure shelters which you can access using your student or staff ID card.
Please use the designated cycle parking for increased security and health and safety reasons, we may need to remove your cycle from other areas if it is causing an obstruction.
You can view all of the cycle parking and shower facilities on our campuses on the campus map .
Cycle parking
Showers
Transport for Greater Manchester (TfGM) have developed a Cycle Hub at MediaCity which offers membership-based smartcard access with online application systems.
The Cycle Hub is positioned behind the university’s MediaCity premises and is open 24 hours a day.
We can now offer reimbursement to colleagues based at MediaCity who opt to travel by bicycle to work.
Cycle security
Unfortunately, cycle theft can occur on campus.
We are working with the Greater Manchester Police to tackle the issue and reduce the likelihood of theft occurring.
The University of Salford Sports Centre sell Gold Standard D locks at a subsidised price of £15.00.
Drop in or for more information, just call +44 (0)161 295 5060 .
There are ways in which you can reduce the chances of having your cycle stolen:
Cycle safety
Cycle routes and training
Cycle to Work Scheme
As part of the university’s commitment to encouraging sustainable methods of travel, employees can participate in a Cycle to Work scheme.
In the scheme the university purchases cycles for employees to use for their commute to work.
In exchange for the provision of the cycle, participating employees agree to a reduction in salary to cover the hire charge each month, repaying part of the initial cost to the university and benefiting from tax and National Insurance savings via the salary sacrifice arrangement.
Cycle User Group
To support cycling commuters we have created a Cycle User Group.
We encourage staff and student cyclists to join.
Season tickets are available to purchase for each mode of transport (tram, bus or train) and System One Travelcards offer a range of tickets if you need to combined bus and train travel.
They offer 1, 7 and 28 day tickets as well as annual season tickets.
The University of Salford operates a loan scheme for staff who would like to purchase a season ticket to travel to and from work by bus, tram or train.
The employee purchases the ticket and applies for a loan to cover the full cost, which is then recovered through salary deduction over a period of up to 12 months.
Metrolink is offering University of Salford employees a 10% discount off the price of an annual season ticket.
An annual season ticket not only saves you time and money but also provides unlimited travel between two chosen stops on weekdays and weekends.
No more queuing to buy tickets - a season ticket can be used as many times as you like for work or leisure.
The university benefits from excellent rail links as Salford Crescent station is located between the Peel Park and Frederick Road campuses.
Services to Manchester central stations are very frequent and take less than 10 minutes, passengers can then connect to services across the country.
There are also direct services to local destinations such as Bolton, Preston, Blackburn, Wigan, Blackpool as well as Manchester Airport.
Railcard
There is a minimum fare of £12 if used before 10:00, a 16-25 Railcard can save you money if you attend university after this time or on weekend trips home.
The university is well served by numerous high frequency bus routes that predominantly stop along the A6/Crescent.
This route serves Salford Central train station, Chapel Street, the University of Salford, Salford Crescent, Salford Shopping Centre and terminates at MediaCity and Salford Quays runs up to every 8 minutes at peak times.
University of Salford staff and students can travel for free on the 50 between Adelphi Street/Oldfield Road and MediaCity on production of a valid ID card.
Any travel on the service beyond this is chargeable and you must be in possession of a valid ticket or be liable for a £50 penalty fare.
The Greater Manchester Metrolink tram network spans the city, with lines from Bury to Altrincham and from Manchester city centre to Eccles.
Our campus at MediaCity has a Metrolink tram stop directly outside the main entrance making it extremely convenient to travel there by tram.
Direct services to Eccles and Manchester city centre are available from the MediaCity stop.
Those travelling to Bury, Altrincham, Chorlton or Didsbury should change at Cornbrook.
There are Be.EV (formerly Charge Your Car) electric vehicle charging points located in the following areas around campus:
Please check local parking restrictions as they have charging/parking time limits.
All car parking on the university campus is payable.
Reducing business travel has a number of benefits for both colleagues and the University:
We aim to reduce business travel through the following priorities:
We expect trip approvers to test that the travel is required, and an alternative method is not more appropriate.
This will be monitored and reviewed to make sure this challenge is taking place and that travel requests are reducing against previous activity.
Our travel surveys show that the majority of students travel by non-car modes (75%) and 49% of staff travel by non-car modes.
Single occupancy car use has increased for both staff and students slightly overtime and is likely to be a consequence of reduced car sharing promotion and allowance of unrestricted parking for all users.
The surveys also show that a high number of staff and students are unaware of the existing tools and infrastructure measures.
Our ambition is to consolidate and rationalise car-parking across campus and to reduce internal car circulation to promote a healthier, more pedestrian-friendly campus through our Campus Masterplan.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/food:
Our Sustainable Food Policy Statement outlines our intentions to minimise the negative environmental, ethical and social impacts of our catering operations and to promote positive environmental, ethical and social practices.
Our Sustainable Food Action Plan details how we are setting out to achieve this.
The policy supports our Environmental Sustainability Policy and Plan, Sustainable Purchasing Policy and Environmental and Energy Management System.
We have implemented a number of projects to support sustainable and healthy food on campus through our Eat and Drink on Campus Team and food growing projects on campus.
Our outlets pride themselves on offering a range of meals for all dietary requirements, and are making changes to do this with a lower environmental impact.
One of the suggestions for improvements from our Green Campus Group , was to develop a community growing space.
We were successful in achieving funding a couple years ago and collaborated with staff and students to identify a suitable location (behind Clifford Whitworth library) and develop a design for the space that is accessible and reuses materials.
The space is up and running and is regularly used to rest, socialise, study and garden.
Some of the things we grow include beetroot, lettuce, chives, parsley, joganberry, potatoes, and kiwi!
We have a Community Growing Space teams channel that anybody can join if they are interested in regular updates about the space, and there are gardening sessions on Wednesdays 12:30 - 13:30.
Just drop by!
The Dementia Hub is a designated space in Allerton Courtyard for people affected by dementia to garden and relax.
There are always some jobs to do; for those who are not interested in gardening they can use the Hub space to chat, read and chill in the pergola which has evolved into being a special space for reflection.
The SIP and SOW society put on events encouraging all members of the University to come along, look out for posters or contact m.j.pocsai@salford.ac.uk .
For any further information please visit the Dementia Hub page.
In March 2025 we were awarded two stars in our first evaluation in the Food Made Good Awards .
The Awards, run by the Sustainable Restaurant Association assesses businesses on their commitment to ethical sourcing, reducing environmental impact, and fostering a positive social impact.
We score particularly well in the 'Celebrate Provenance' area which highlights our commitments to an ethical and sustainable supply chain, such as using some Fairtrade products.
The 'Treat Staff Fairly' category showcases our welcoming work environments as we are a Real Living Wage employer and champion wellbeing.
We also scored highly on the Environmental pillar thanks to our ambitious net zero targets, waste reduction initiatives, and certified environmental and energy management system.
Areas for future development include enhancing plant-forward menu options, taking additional steps to promote healthy eating, developing clearer commitments to supporting local communities and communicating more about our sustainability efforts.
We have over 20 drinking water refill points across campus so that you can reduce the number of plastic bottles you buy and use your own reusable bottles instead.
You can find the locations on the campus map .
If you have any suggestions for other locations, please get in touch .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/procurement:
Sustainable Procurement is the process of recognising the negative and positive environmental, social and economic impacts of purchased goods, works and services.
It is a cradle to grave approach and should consider the entire supply chain rather than just the individual product or service.
The UN Marrakech Task Force define Sustainable Procurement as
"A process whereby organisations meet their needs for goods, services, works and utilities in a way that achieves value for money on a whole life basis in terms of generating benefits not only to the organisation, but also to society and the economy, whilst minimising damage to the environment".
As an organisation, we are a major procurer of IT supplies and services, food, paper, furniture, energy, cleaning equipment, services and have ambitious investment plans involving construction and renovation across campus.
In 2018/19 our non-pay expenditure was £67.5m.
We have around 3000 suppliers.
Since 2016 we have been signed up to NETpositive, allowing suppliers access to a free sustainability action plan tool.
We have implemented a category and risk management-based approach to our Sustainable Procurement Plan.
Each commodity area of purchase has been evaluated for impacts (both positive and negative) on social, economic and environment.
We have then ranked the commodity areas based on the total risk which will form our focus for our Sustainable Procurement Plan.
This initial expenditure analysis in conjunction with a high-level sustainability impact analysis has identified Estates and Buildings, as well as other categories of spend including Catering Supplies and Services and Furniture, Furnishings and Textiles, which are all managed through our Estates and Facilities, as high risk.
Estates and Facilities procurement is a priority area in our Sustainable Procurement Plan.
We follow a number of guiding principles around ethics, environment and equality in our Sustainable Procurement Plan as well as the following approach;
Clear direction from senior management
Integrated sustainable procurement framework
Clear sustainable procurement guidance
Prioritise spend areas
Provision of training and tools
Benchmarking
Taking account of non-financial benefits
Life-cycle approach
Our strategy is also based on the UK Government Flexible Framework themes: People; Policy, Strategy & Communications; Procurement Process; Engaging Suppliers and Measurement & Results.
Our objectives
The following objectives have been established for our strategy:
Our overarching aim is to progress along the Flexible Framework to reach Level 4 of the Flexible Framework.
For further details of our commitments and approach to sustainable procurement please see our Estates and Facilities Sustainable Purchasing Policy .
If you are a member of staff, please get in touch with the Environmental Sustainability Team for support in embedding sustainability into your procurement.
If you are a current or potential supplier you should be aware the University encourages all organisations to register with the NETpositive Engagement tool .
Please also see our specific actions for sustainable food, construction and our compliance with the Modern Slavery Act below.
Working with NETpositive Futures , we've introduced a tool for suppliers to generate their own bespoke Sustainability Action Plan.
It's free, easy to use and allows organisations to:
Through our membership of North West Universities Purchasing Consortium , we are members of Electronics Watch , an independent monitoring organisation set up with the purpose of protecting the rights of workers within electronics supply chains.
Through this membership we can collaborate to have a positive impact on workers through the electronics we purchase.
We are also exploring ways to ensure transparency in supply chains of other goods.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/education-for-sustainable-development:
Find out more about Education for Sustainable Development at The University of Salford, including what support is available to colleagues and action being taken across the University.
Our vision for Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) is that:
"Learners are supported to develop the knowledge, skills, values and behaviours necessary to be empowered and equipped to take action to support sustainability, and tackle and cope with the environmental, social and economic challenges we face today and in the future."
A holistic understanding of sustainability within the context of the subject should be covered, with subject-specific knowledge and skills interconnected with sustainability.
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide a useful starting framework to structure the integration of sustainable development in education, helping to explore the breadth and interconnectedness of sustainability, and start understanding where disciplines relate to sustainable development.
It is recognised that the SDGs have faults and are not perfect, but generally, what they seek to achieve is necessary for a positive future for life on earth.
We encourage critical engagement with the SDGs and ensuring that a holistic view of sustainable development is covered in a programme, remembering that it incorporates environmental, social and economic factors and challenges and how they are interconnected.
As well as the relevant knowledge, it is also important to develop wider competencies that will help learners to tackle and cope with sustainability challenges.
Therefore, learning outcomes should be aligned with key competencies for sustainability.
There are a number of sustainability competency frameworks, including:
Competencies within these frameworks include critical thinking, systems thinking, collaboration, self-awareness, adaptability, communication skills, perseverance, empathy and compassion.
ESD asks for an action-orientated, transformative pedagogy, which supports self-directed learning, participation and collaboration, problem-orientation, inter-and trans disciplinarity and the linking of formal and informal learning.
These pedagogical methods could include:
Decolonising the curriculum and other Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) priorities are important elements of ESD, including ensuring that we explore sustainable development through a decolonial and justice driven lens and that ESD work does not perpetuate colonialist approaches.
We are in the process of consulting with students and staff to develop an institutional framework for quality and meaningful ESD.
If you would like to get involved, contact sustainability@salford.ac.uk .
Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) is important for numerous reasons and there are many benefits of incorporating ESD into programme curricula, for example:
Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) aligns with the University of Salford Strategy ‘Innovating to Enrich Lives’ - building towards social justice to create a more just and equitable society.
“Ultimately, our goal is innovating towards a more sustainable, equitable, just, healthy, creative and prosperous society.”
The University Strategy has four delivery themes, including ‘Improving the Environment & Sustainability’.
This theme includes the statement that ‘We will support our students to develop the knowledge, skills, values and behaviours necessary to be empowered and equipped to take action to support sustainability, and tackle and cope with the environmental, social and economic challenges we face today and in the future.’.
The other delivery themes also support sustainability and ESD: Developing Cutting-edge Creativity & Innovative Practice; Building Prosperity, Equity & Community; and Enabling Healthier Living.
“Always striving to have a positive impact” (University of Salford organisational ethos)
As a higher education provider, we have a responsibility and opportunity to ensure that students acquire the knowledge, skills, values and behaviours necessary to respond to global challenges and shape a sustainable future.
In our teaching and learning, one of our curriculum design principles is ‘Education for ethical behaviour’, which presents an approach to student education that seeks to balance human and economic well-being, knowledge, and competencies with cultural traditions, respect for other people, and for the earth and its natural resources.
Education for ethical behaviour uses transdisciplinary educational methods and approaches to develop ethical thinking that is rooted in lifelong learning, respect for the natural resources of the planet; and a cosmopolitan outlook that incorporates cross-cultural competence and respect, and prepares students to be global citizens.
The principle requires programmes to be committed to producing ethically aware and socially responsible graduates who possess the relevant skills and values necessary to solve the complex problems of our age.
Programmes should integrate relevant ethical issues, issues of sustainable development, and a wider commitment to social justice.
Academic colleagues are supported to embed education for ethical behaviour and other principles into their curricula by the Learning and Teaching Enhancement Centre (LTEC) and the Quality Management Office (QMO).
The QMO is responsible for developing and maintaining a robust institutional regulatory framework for the management of academic quality and standards.
This is achieved through a set of effective, flexible and streamlined policies and procedures, that incorporate the curriculum design principles.
The University Sustainability Strategy includes a measure of success by 2030 that ‘Education for Sustainable Development is embedded into all taught programmes’.
The importance of ESD is also reflected in our Education Delivery Plan.
Sustainability is relevant to all disciplines, and we want all of our students to see that they can make a positive difference in the world.
University of Salford staff are invited to join the ESD Community of Practice.
A range of useful resources are available including documents and links to recordings, and regular updates about ESD news and events are shared.
It is a great place to learn more about ESD, ask for advice, share best practice and collaborate with colleagues from across the University.
The ESD Officer is available to provide bespoke support to colleagues to help them raise awareness of ESD and embed ESD into their programmes.
The wider Sustainability Team are also able to support academic colleagues to introduce sustainability into their programmes through:
Contact sustainability@salford.ac.uk to discuss your requirements.
Our annual staff sustainability survey helps us to monitor the impacts of these initiatives and identify and prioritise other useful support.
The Learning and Teaching Enhancement Centre (LTEC) work with colleagues across the University, striving for inspiring and exceptional learning experiences for all Salford students.
They facilitate formal and informal continuing academic professional development opportunities, support and training for educational technologies, and support and guidance for pedagogic enquiry.
Their mission is to lead the University community in innovative, digitally enabled and societally focused pedagogic practice and scholarship of education.
ESD is incorporated into the University’s Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice, including via a workshop delivered by the ESD Officer.
Sustainability is also a regular topic at the annual Festival of Learning & Teaching and within the LTEC monthly Spotlights.
The wider LTEC resources and support are also useful for ESD practice, particularly in terms of transforming pedagogy .
Students, colleagues and the wider community are encouraged to get inspiration from the brilliant research that is going on at University of Salford in sustainability.
Some examples are available on the Research page, and you can see it in action on our campus in our Living Lab, part of the Ignition Project .
See the links below for some external guidance and resources on ESD:
More useful guidance can be found in the ESD Community of Practice .
Each year, SOS-UK run the SDG Teach In campaign through March, which aims to put the UN Sustainable Development Goals , and therefore sustainability, at the heart of all stages of education, and across all disciplines.
We encourage colleagues to get involved each year and pledge to embed the SDGs into their teaching.
The University of Salford and Salford Students’ Union are taking part in the SOS-UK Responsible Futures programme as a partnership.
Responsible Futures is a supported change programme and accreditation framework to embed holistic sustainability through all aspects of the student learning experience.
It is run internationally by SOS-UK , and provides a framework comprised of criteria drawn from good practice across the sector, to support a whole institution approach to weave holistic sustainability through the formal, informal, and subliminal curriculum, with an emphasis on Education for Sustainable Development (ESD).
We joined the programme in September 2023 and are working through the framework, with a plan to go for initial accreditation in November 2025, when we will be audited by a team of trained students.
We have already made progress with some of the framework criteria, for example, we have established an ESD Working Group, who lead the development of an ESD strategy and action plan.
The Working Group is chaired by the Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor Education and Student Experience.
We are also developing an ESD baseline through a student-led curriculum mapping exercise.
This has already been completed for Salford Business School and we are planning to do the same exercise for our other Schools.
Staff within the School of Science, Engineering and Environment have developed collaborative learning projects involving MSc students from the environment, health, safety and wildlife disciplines working on real world sustainability projects with private, public and third sector organisations.
Students either work in teams on professional practice projects or as individuals on practice-based dissertations.
They develop a range of real-world skills that are essential for the sustainability professional including negotiating terms of reference with clients, project planning, collecting and analysing data relevant to the project aims, reflecting on performance and writing reports.
Throughout the project students keep a ‘reflective learning journal’ to provide insight into the learning process and to inform action planning for future learning and partnership working.
Since 2009 this programme of work-based learning has resulted in over 100 team and individual projects involving around 60 different organisations and over 100 individual contacts.
Projects range from assessing the feasibility of implementing sustainable technologies and management measures in business through evaluating health programmes delivered by partner organisations to assessing baseline ecological conditions at key sites.
Some examples of projects are:
The MSc programme has also worked with the Environmental Sustainability Team to support the development and maintenance of the Environment and Energy Management System through students supporting internal audits and specific projects such as energy conservation, pollution prevention and waste reduction.
We recognise that the environmental impact of the fashion industry is enormous.
Level 4 students in Fashion Image Making and Styling (FIMS) worked on a 6-week environmental brief CARING SHARING, set in tandem with the University of Salford’s Environmental Sustainability Team and linking with an Extinction Rebellion take over day.
The work was then exhibited as part of Go Green Salford.
The 60 students collaborated together in small groups of 8-10 and were challenged with ethical environmental consciousness at the core and progressing sustainable solutions to fashion industry waste creating responses with a zero-waste anchor.
The Environmental Sustainability Team underpinned the brief with facts and statistics and FIMS were inspired by major influencers from Greta Thunberg, Collina Strada, More or Less magazine amongst others.
Working with major industry game changers Matty Bovan and Cecily Ophelia, the students mobilized and acted sustainably to create a showcase in the atrium of the New Adelphi building of collaborative responses drawing upon the urgent need to address the ongoing climate crisis.
They created new discourses and rhetoric around the ecological disaster asking others to act now before its too late.
The exhibition ran for a month and showcased everything from trainers with the soles carved into patterns to spread the message, to patchwork blankets made from boiler suits from oil rigs, to engaging with local green Politicians to write speeches on youth voices, to soundtracks, to hand dyeing all our wardrobe, to making luxury sculptural dresses out of plastic waste, to re-creating the iconic LV Louis Vuitton logo as a green party collaboration.
One group took it to the next level, contacting a local school made mini magazines and taught schoolchildren how to reconnect to core skills, such as sewing, dying, spreading the environmental message beyond our wildest realms – this group has been asked back to do more with the children.
The group said it was the best day of their lives-young people helping young people is super empowering and inspiring -these will be the future industry game changers.
FIMS also participated in a XR takeover day with the students helping run a non profit clothing swap shop offering styling advise, restyling and face painting sessions and running a mini photo studio to record new looks as they happened – this was a truly exciting day resulting in widening participation with FIMS now being given the chance to run more swap shops on a regular basis for the University.
A number of level 4 and level 6 FIMS students were also actively involved in Go Green Salford 2021 by creating content and leading events on topics such as slow fashion, upcycling, second hand clothes and digital fashion.
Materials from these were later used in coursework projects by some of them.
In April 2021, the Environmental Sustainability Team were also invited by FIMS to take part in a discussion panel during their sustainable fashion digital symposium, "Skywoman Falling".
FIMS staff take their responsibility so seriously as a staff team embedding and encouraging students to have good ethics.
At the heart of the curriculum this module proves what young people can do if given the support.
'We would not be doing our jobs if we let them continue blindly on ignoring all the evidence when the fashion industry is desperate for next level thinkers and solutions that are creative and original.
We are equipping each and every one with the tools they need to help make the changes needed in the industry and beyond with facts and solutions.
Sustainability is a journey not a destination and we are fully committed to this path we are on as a staff team with our amazing student cohort -as one ethical caring family.
Tomorrows employees and game changers not afraid to stand up for issues believed in passionately helping others understand the situation we are faced with but in positive and dynamic ways – joining forces for change having the confidence to speak up and care, because we care.'
Recognising that sustainability is just good business the Salford Business School has supported the Business Ethics and Sustainability (BE&S) module team to empower and inspire our next generation business leaders to make lasting environmental, social and economic benefit.
The BE&S module within the Salford Business School (SBS) is a super module for level 6, and reaches around 350 students every academic year, our future business leaders.
The module has been delivered in SBS in various appearances for a number of years and it has been recently redesigned to be a real-world student learning experience by partnering with the Social Enterprise Visits Initiative (SEVI) and the UoS Sustainability team.
The delivery of teaching has a combination of pedagogical approaches including workshops, guest talks and field trips to social enterprises with a keen focus on skills and knowledge that is vital for professional practice and employability.
The key partnership is with the UoS Sustainability Team, not only delivering lectures that provided the foundation on how UoS is trying to be more sustainable and what the main challenges are, but also meaningfully engaging with the students to help develop the University Sustainability Strategy.
Taking the principle of students as partners wider than just teaching and learning but in development of a University wide strategy and tackling some of the sustainability issues on campus.
Through a group assessment students have to critically assess how the UoS is addressing one of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and identify the main strengths and weaknesses of how the UoS is tackling the SDG.
Based on their analysis they present recommendations and a project plan, which would assist the UoS in tackling the selected SDG in the future.
Furthermore, students have to investigate and select one charity in Manchester or Salford area that they would like to support and incorporate in their presentation.
The best presentation had a chance to win a monetary price that would be donated to the selected charity.
The winners of The Best Sustainability Project Idea are announced at the end of every semester where students meet with their charities and pass on their donation.
The UoS ST is a relatively small team with limited resources for engagement.
The partnership through BEST enables ongoing dialogue with students that would not otherwise be possible.
This also presented the opportunity to deliver information on environmental management at the University such as waste and recycling and provided a barometer of awareness to measure changes in knowledge and attitudes.
Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME)
PRME's vision is to realise the Sustainable Development Goals through responsible management education and it’s vision is to transform business and management education and develop the responsible leaders of tomorrow.
It now includes over 800 business schools worldwide
The University is proud to have adopted the PRME Principles reporting on progress since 2013.
The Principles have played an important role in shaping, the Salford Business School’s strategies relating to teaching, learning, research and external engagement.
The University of Salford vision is that: “by pioneering exceptional industry partnerships we will lead the way in real world experiences, preparing students for life.”
Our goal is to prepare students for the careers of tomorrow and ensure they have the knowledge, skills, attributes and confidence to succeed in the workplace.
A critical element of this strategy is the need to ensure all our students have an understanding of contemporary business models.
Here, Salford Business School is playing an increasing role across the University in seeking to lead the University’s and students’ understanding in this regard.
Explicitly, this focuses on ensuring that students develop an understanding of what is best-practice authentic, collaborative and co-created business, management and leadership.
As a result we are placing the principles of developing practice that is ethically grounded and socially responsible at our core.
Our commitment to the Principles for Responsible Management Education supports this.
The connected, critical and action oriented managers and leaders we seek to develop will be at the forefront of business and society in the future, and it important - now more than ever - that these graduates are underpinned by a proper understanding of ethical, sustainable and socially responsible business practices.
The Sustainability Team encourage students across all disciplines to get involved with sustainability on campus through the generation of live briefs for projects.
These have been integrated into the curriculum as dissertations or other assessments and as extra-curricular opportunities.
This provides students with the opportunity to make a real difference to the University and beyond.
Real life sustainability challenges are also offered by the wider community and external organisations.
Recent examples:
Some other examples of previous student projects are listed below:
The Sustainability Team have also funded and supported extra-curricular student-led projects, including the Salford Swap Shop, Salford Climate Cafe, and several wildlife and sustainable art workshops.
Student involvement with cross-institutional opportunities to address sustainability challenges has also been supported, including the Manchester Unhackathon and Green Careers Mission .
If you are a student interested in developing your own sustainability research ideas, or an academic wanting to incorporate live briefs into a module, please get in touch to explore opportunities.
The Sustainability Team also encourages students to establish and lead sustainability projects outside of their studies and can often support with funding.
At Salford we are committed to breaking down traditional barriers to Higher Education, ensuring that our student cohort reflects the diversity in society.
We work to inspire, engage and enable those who would not traditionally consider higher education to fulfill their potential by raising their awareness, challenging barriers and providing opportunities to explore Higher Education.
Read more about our work on widening participation and outreach .
We deliver a wide range of activities and initiatives targeted from secondary school age to post-16 as well as bespoke activities for care experienced students, students with caring responsibilities, Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic students, disabled young people and others.
Sanctuary seekers
Applying and studying at university can be a challenge for any student, but for those who are seeking sanctuary or been granted refugee status in the UK, there can be many legal and emotional challenges as well.
We work in partnership with local and national organisations to ensure that we can offer effective support.
This includes offering ten scholarships for people in the process of seeking asylum, those with refugee status or humanitarian protection, or other limited forms of leave to remain in the UK.
These scholarships are broken down into two from each of our four Schools and 2 postgraduate scholarships, and are a full fee waiver for the duration of the degree programme.
Alongside these scholarships, we offer a £1,100 yearly bursary to help cover the cost of studying and these students are entitled to access our financial support services through the Money Advice and Funds Service.
These groups of students are included in the University's Access and Participation Plan .
Find out more about the support we offer for sanctuary seekers .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/environmental-sustainability/research:
At the University of Salford, we take pride in our ability to blend real-world experience with cutting-edge research; a combination that propels us forward as unstoppable innovators committed to achieving meaningful impact.
Our research revolves around four themes .
As a signatory to the SDG Accord , we are committed to contributing to all the UN Sustainable Development Goals through our research.
We aim to ‘practice what we preach’ by using our campus as a Living Laboratory.
We are already partners in a multi-million pound European contract for a project to develop 'green' resilience to extreme climate hazards.
Through the IGNITION project backed by £4 million from the EU’s Urban Innovation Actions initiative , the University of Salford hosts a ‘living laboratory’ for urban green infrastructure including roofs, walls and gardens.
The project is led by Greater Manchester Combined Authority and supported by 11 partners, including the Environment Agency, and comes in response to increasing flooding, heat hazards and worsening air quality.
If you have completed a sustainability-themed dissertation or research project and would like to share your findings with us please send them to sustainability@salford.ac.uk
As a signatory to the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice , we share the ambition for the UK to continue delivering cutting-edge research, but in a more environmentally responsible and sustainable way.
We recognise the need to change how we conduct research and innovation as well as promote wider solutions and agree to take shared action now and in the future to reduce and eliminate our own negative environmental impacts and emissions and achieve the transition to sustainable practices.
Leadership and systemic change
Our Sustainability Strategy and Delivery Plans include commitment to increase the environmental sustainability of all research and innovation practice.
Sustainable infrastructure
Our Net Zero Carbon plan and Sustainable Construction Framework ensures that our infrastructure is developed in an environmentally sustainable way.
Our ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certified Environmental and Energy Management System supports operational environmental sustainability.
We offer guidance and support to research colleagues through the Green Impact and LEAF (Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework) programmes.
University of Salford currently has two labs with LEAF Bronze (Environmental Lab and Megalab Teaching Lab) and are working to have all labs at the University running as sustainably as possible.
Our labs which have attained Bronze are already looking at actions they can take that are required for Silver and Gold LEAF accreditation.
Sustainable procurement
Our Responsible Procurement plan ensures procurement decisions are influenced to prioritise more environmentally sustainable options and apply principles such as the circular economy.
Business and academic travel
Our Sustainable Travel Plan is under development, however, we advocate for reducing travel required for research and innovation activities to reduce carbon emissions while considering inclusivity and being mindful of the needs of those travelling.
We support the provision of virtual or hybrid conferences, events and meetings using sustainable systems.
Collaborations and partnerships
We will actively seek opportunities for collaboration and partnerships within and external to the university.
An example is LEAF (Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework).
Developed by UCL, this is a framework to enhance the efficiency of labs and facilitates sharing of best practice resulting in more sustainable practices.
Environmental impact and reporting data
We report publicly our annual carbon emissions data and progress on environmental sustainability.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/contact-us/prospective-student-contacts:
Our team is available to answer your questions Monday to Friday, from 10:00-16:00.
Admissions / Course Enquiries Open Days Campus and Travel
If you have any questions about courses, admissions, or open days, you can use any of the below methods to contact us: Use our Course Enquiries Contact Form Call: +44 (0)161 295 4545 Our team is available to answer your questions Monday to Friday, from 10:00-16:00.
If you have any questions about courses, admissions, or open days, you can use any of the below methods to contact us:
Throughout the year we run Open Days, on campus and online, for prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students.
View our Student Contacts
View our Alumni and Graduate Contacts

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/contact-us/alumni-and-graduation-contacts:
Please refer to our graduation page for more detailed information.
Common Requests Graduation Information Alumni Our askUS Team Campus and Travel
Below you can find a variety of our most common requests from graduates and alumni.
Graduation Team Contacts Opening hours 09:00-16:00, Monday-Friday Call: +44 (0)161 295 2313 Email: grad-acd@salford.ac.uk
Graduation Team Contacts
Opening hours 09:00-16:00, Monday-Friday
As a member of the alumni community, we are committed to offering you lifelong support and access to a range of exclusive benefits and services, including your online networking mentoring hub, From Salford.
Alumni Team Contacts Call: +44 (0)161 295 4265 Email: Alumni: alumni@salford.ac.uk Supporters: supporters@salford.ac.uk Address: Philanthropy, Alumni and Supporter Engagement Room 401, Crescent House, University of Salford Manchester, M5 4WT
Alumni Team Contacts
Email: Alumni: alumni@salford.ac.uk
Supporters: supporters@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/welcome/registration:
Registration is a process that happens every year.
It provides us with important information that we need from you and is the starting point for lots of our key processes.
Registration enables your access to our IT and learning systems, your student account and email address, and is the first step to starting your course.
If you are a student with one of our partner institutions, you must also register online with the University of Salford even if you have registered with your other institution.
On this page we will guide you through the steps to complete registration - watch our video below and then read all the information on this page carefully before you begin.
You need to register as soon as possible and ideally before your induction starts.
This is to ensure you start your course on time and don’t experience a delay in receiving any funding you have applied for (if eligible).
You can find our deadlines further down the page.
The registration system will guide you through all the steps you need to take, but there is a summary of the process in the table below.
Find your student type (e.g., Home (UK/Ireland), International, distance learner, partner institution) and follow the steps in that column.
You can find more information on our FAQs page.
The online registration process differs dependent on what type of student you are, but it takes approximately 10 to 30 minutes.
You do not need to complete the entire registration process at once (but we recommend you do this if you are able to).
You can save your progress and come back to it if you need to check details or add further information.
All students need to have the following on hand to start the registration process : your student ID and PIN (you are emailed this when you are eligible to register), your personal details (i.e.
date of birth, address, nationality, emergency contacts), information about how you will be paying your tuition fees (if applicable) and, for most students, a passport-style photograph for your student ID.
See the table below for additional information.
Please note, the information below details major parts of the registration process but may not reflect the order of steps within the registration system.
If you have any questions about registration, visas, funding or your offer, please visit our FAQs page.
You can also view our glossary of terms for some of the questions asking about personal information.
If you have a nationality outside of the United Kingdom (e.g.
you hold dual nationality) and are studying on campus, you may be required to provide the University with your immigration documents at a face-to-face appointment.
If applicable, you will be guided through this in the registration process.
*For further information please visit our Visa and Immigration pages.
We recommend that you complete registration at least a week before the start of your course to ensure you have access to our systems before your induction activities start.
You will receive an email from us when you are eligible to register for your course.
Registration for September 2025 is now open.
You can register online .
If you register by 31 August, you will be entered into our draw to win £50 Inspire credit added to your Inspire account.
You can see full deadlines for all cohorts of students below.
If for any reason you feel you will be unable to register on time, you should contact your school office as soon as possible for advice, or your Research Administrator if you are a research student.
If for any reason you feel you will be unable to register on time, you should email the Apprenticeships Services Unit as soon as possible for advice.
If for any reason you feel you will be unable to register on time, you should contact your School Office or Research Administrator as soon as possible for advice.
If for any reason you feel you will be unable to register on time, you should email the Business School Degree Apprenticeships Team as soon as possible for advice.
If you require assistance with registration, we provide registration support via phone, email and in-person.
We recommend you review our Registration FAQs first, as you may find your answer there.
We'll also be providing dedicated registration support in-person at University House from 1 to 19 September.
Visit us from Monday to Friday 09:00-17:00, or join us on Welcome Weekend (Saturday 6 and Sunday 7 September) from 09:30 to 16:30.
You can still access support services before and after these dates.
Once you have registered, you will receive access to our IT systems, your student email will be generated and your student ID card will be printed.
You will receive an email about how you will receive your student ID, which will either be mailed to you or available for pick-up from campus.
If you are a student with a partner institution, please note that the remaining information on this page is for University of Salford students only.
Only once you have completed all registration steps will you have full access to your student email account and our learning systems.
You must have completed registration before your induction activities start to be able to access these systems during your induction period .
Please also read our guide for using University of Salford systems before you start.
Once you have fully completed the registration process you are able to obtain your student ID card.
Please read the email we send you about your student ID card for more information.
You will not receive a student ID card if you are a student with one of our partner institutions.
If you are waiting to complete the registration process after the start of term, please be assured that you can still attend your scheduled academic sessions without your student ID card.
Please view our timetable guidance for more information.
We also email you more information about your timetable, so keep an eye on your inbox.
Lost your student ID number or PIN?
You can find your student ID number and PIN in your welcome email and/or text message.
This is sent out approximately 6 weeks before your course commencement date.
Not received any emails asking you to register yet?
Let us know via our Registration Details Request online form .
If you are an international student, you can find extra information to help you in your Welcome Guide (check your email inbox) , which explains the steps involved with registration and support with completing registration online.
Please still complete registration if your course has changed and you are awaiting the outcome of an appeal .
We will be in touch with you shortly with further information.
Welcome events
FAQs

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/letter-requests:
askUS produces different types of letters for many reasons for our current students, former students and graduates.
We aim to produce letters within 3-5 working days, but this can take longer if we need to contact your school to confirm any additional information.
Please read the information below about types of letters and the process you need to follow as this process is different if you are not a current student.
We do not, under any circumstances, issue letters immediately at the point of your request and we will not guarantee letters can be produced quickly for every circumstance.
We offer the following standard types of letters for current (registered) students:
We aim to produce letters within 3-5 working days, but this may take longer if we need to confirm any additional information with your school.
Once your letter has been produced, we will email it to your University email account.
If you live in Campus Living Villages accommodation (Peel Park Quarter, John Lester or Eddie Colman Court), please contact your CLV site office for a statement of account.
You will already have received an interruption letter if you are on an interruption of study.
Please email sa-tuitionfees@salford.ac.uk if you need this letter to be reprinted.
You will automatically receive a letter confirming your dates of study if you have withdrawn from a programme of study.
If you have any issues, please email askUS@salford.ac.uk .
Please ensure that you do not request a letter in place of a CAS Reference Number for your new course.
All enquiries relating to your CAS can be emailed to salford-cas@salford.ac.uk .
Former students and graduates who have not studied during the current academic year need to use our online shop to order an academic confirmation letter.
If you have graduated from the University, you can request an Academic Confirmation Letter detailing your award for a charge of £10 from the online shop.
Please note these letter requests take 10 working days to process for courses completed from 2007 onwards and 20 working days for courses completed in 2006 or earlier.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/certificates-and-transcripts:
Below you will find details and information on how to obtain your certificate and transcript if you have recently graduated or you require additional/replacement documents as a former student.
There are two types of certificates and transcripts: original and replacement.
If you are about to graduate or have graduated in the last three months, please look at ‘Original’ for more information about when and how you will receive your certificate.
If you did not receive your original certificate or transcript, or if they have been lost, damaged or stolen, you can order a replacement below.
Please note that the University of Salford changed its crest in November 2017, therefore if you have recently been awarded or ordered a replacement document this will be issued on the new paper.
You will receive your documents directly to your address if you have a permanent registered address in the UK.
For overseas addresses, you will receive an email when your certificate is ready.
The email will ask you to complete a form requesting how you would like to receive your certificate: with delivery to a nominated address in the UK, or via DHL Express delivery.
If you do not request a nominated address in the UK or the DHL service, your certificate will be posted by international standard airmail to your permanent registered address.
This is not a tracked service , therefore the University will not be able to assist with any queries relating to your certificate’s whereabouts.
Once a document is with a postal service, the University cannot accept responsibility if this is lost.
If you have recently been awarded and received your results letter from your school confirming your award, the Student Records team are in the process of arranging the production of your certificate and transcript.
See the table below for when you should receive your certificate.
Results Letter Date
The date stated on your results letter, issued by your school
Latest Postal Date
The latest date on which documents from the specified bulk will leave the university
Latest Received Date
The latest date by which documents from the specified bulk should be received
We will post the document to your permanent address (Royal Mail First Class in the UK, Air Mail for International addresses), so please make sure this is up-to-date.
If you are moving, or if you are unsure which address we hold on file for you, you can check and update your details via the Self-Service Portal .
If you have been awarded and the latest received date from the table above has passed but you are yet to receive your certificate and transcript, contact the Student Records team at sa-studentrecords@salford.ac.uk for further assistance.
Please include your Student ID, name and postal address within the email, so the team can assist you at promptly as possible.
You must let us know no later than three months after the date in the 'Latest received Date' Column.
If you are required to provide proof that you have been successful in obtaining a degree from the University for an external organisation (e.g.
Embassy or your employer) and are yet to receive your certificate and transcript, please use your results letter issued by the school in the first instance.
If this is not sufficient then please contact the Student Records team at sa-studentrecords@salford.ac.uk stating the reason that you require this, attaching relevant supporting evidence to the email where appropriate.
Please remember to include your Student ID within the email, so the team can assist you at promptly as possible.
Please note that if you have any outstanding debts the University will withhold your certificate and transcript until your debt is settled in full.
For further information, please contact the Income & Treasury Team by email at income-treasury@salford.ac.uk or calling +44 (0)161 295 5000 .
If you fail to notify us within three calendar months of your award date that you have not received your degree certificate and transcript, please be aware that you may be charged for a replacement.
Replacement certificates and transcripts can be purchased through the online shop.
There will be a charge of £30 for this service, though please note that delivery charges may apply depending on your preferred delivery method.
Order a replacement certificate
We provide you with one free copy of your original transcript.
This shows a breakdown of your modules and marks.
You will receive this with your certificate when you graduate.
If you require additional copies , you can order these through our online shop .
If you graduated in or after 2006, there will be a charge of £15.00 per additional copy for this service, and you can order up to five copies per transaction.
Please note that delivery charges may apply depending on your preferred delivery method.
Please note that if you have any outstanding debts we may withhold your transcript until your debt is settled in full.
If you require additional copies of your original transcript, or if your documents have been lost or damaged, we can provide you with a replacement.
If you fail to notify the University that you have not received a copy of your original transcript within three calendar months of your award date, please be aware that you may be charged for a replacement.
2007 onwards
If you graduated in or after 2007 there is a charge of £15 per copy for this service.
You can order up to five copies of your transcript per transaction.
On receipt of your payment we aim to produce your documents within 10 working days plus delivery times.
If you have any further queries please contact askUS team by email at askUS@salford.ac.uk .
2006 or earlier
If you graduated in or before 2006, please be aware that it was not standard University policy to issue a transcript at this time so you may not have been issued with an original.
As the University’s policy at this time was to manually produce transcripts on request by searching our archives, there is more work involved in trying to gather the required information and, in some cases, we may not be able to find all requested information.
There is a charge of £30 per copy for this service.
Please be aware that the payment is for the search of your academic records rather than the transcript itself, therefore if the University is unable to find sufficient information to produce a transcript, we will provide as much information as  possible about the course and your details that we find in order to provide you with a relevant official University document for each order.
As a result, you are not automatically entitled to a refund if we cannot find enough information to compile a transcript.
On receipt of your payment we aim to produce your documents within 20 working days plus delivery times.
If you have any further queries please contact the Student Records team by email at sa-studentrecords@salford.ac.uk .
The Diploma Supplement helps support the recognition of academic qualifications.
The University of Salford’s Diploma Supplement provides an overview of the level, context and status of the programme of studies that were pursued by the holder of the qualification identified within the Academic Transcript.
The Academic Transcript is issued with the certificate.
The Diploma Supplement, along with the transcript, makes it easier for employers and education institutions to understand the qualification achieved.
Diploma Supplements are updated annually, to reflect the current Academic Regulations.
This Diploma Supplement is only for use by recent graduates who have been awarded their qualification.
If you require a Diploma Supplement for academic study for more than 12 months ago, please email sa-studentrecords@salford.ac.uk stating your name, student ID number if you know it, your date of birth, qualification awarded and date awarded to receive the relevant Diploma Supplement document.
Your certificate will display the name in which you registered, and in the UK name format of first name, middle name and last name.
It is your responsibility to check that your full and complete legal name is held on our records.
You can check this via the Self-Service Portal .
If your name is incorrect and you haven't submitted your final piece of work or sat your last examination yet, please email askus@salford.ac.uk and attach evidence of your full and correct name (e.g.
your passport, driving licence or deed poll).
Please include your student ID number and full name in the email and include ‘URGENT: Name Change for Certificate’ in the subject heading of the message.
If you have already submitted your final piece of work or sat your last examination and need a name change, please refer to the University’s Student Name Change Policy , which outlines our requirements to meet requests of this nature.
After consulting the Student Name Change Policy, all requests to process name changes should be directed to the Student Records team via email on sa-studentrecords@salford.ac.uk .
An Apostille is a legal certification that makes a document from one country valid in another country (provided that both countries are signatories to the 1961 Hague Convention Abolishing the Requirement for Legalisation for Foreign Public Documents).
In the UK, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) Legalisation Department is the office that has the responsibility of issuing an Apostille certificate to documents originating from the UK.
The University cannot issue an Apostille.
To apply for an Apostille you need to apply to a recognised Public Notary to have the relevant documents notarised and apply to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to have your notarised documents legalised and an Apostille issued.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/admin-essentials/changes-to-study:
This area covers everything that involves a significant change in your studies from changing your course to interruptions to information regarding studying abroad.
If you are thinking about leaving your programme or wish to temporarily pause or interrupt your studies, we can help and advise you where you can access relevant support.
Are you not happy with your course?
Or feel you have made a wrong decision or perhaps you need to leave for personal reasons?
We can help you by offering advice and guidance.
Find out all the information you need to know on what studying abroad will entail and how it will affect the course you are on.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/contact-us/student-support-teams:
Our student support teams are here to support you and provide advice, guidance and referrals to make sure you’re having the best experience possible.
We have specialist teams who can help with a wide variety of topics including money advice, health and wellbeing, academic support, disability and inclusion, and various specialist support services.
Specialist Support Teams Money Advice and Funds Service Career Advice and Support Disability Inclusion Service Student Progression Advisors (SPAs) Wellbeing and Counselling Our askUS Team
Our specialist support teams cover a wide range of areas that may need a little additional support.
You can access additional information about our specialist support teams on our specific topic pages.
Our Money Advice and Funds Service can help if you are struggling to manage your money.
They can offer advice and support if you are in financial hardship and provide guidance on your student finances.
Call: +44 (0) 161 295 5000 Email: moneymatters@salford.ac.uk
Our Careers and Enterprise team are there to help you make the most of your skills and experience, and help prepare you for the next stage of your career.
Email: careersandenterprise@salford.ac.uk
All University of Salford students benefit from inclusive and accessible teaching.
Our Disability Inclusion Service works with you to identify adjustments you need to ensure that you have fair and equal access to your education.
The team work with prospective and current students, working with you to identify teaching, learning and assessment adjustments, such as exam arrangements and in-class support.
Call: +44 (0)161 295 5000 Email: disability@salford.ac.uk
If you need more academic support, reach out to the Student Progression Advisors (SPAs) in your school - they can help you find information relating to your studies, submit Personal Mitigating Circumstances and access support services.
Basically, they're your go-to person if you experience any issues that may affect your academic progression
Wellbeing and Counselling are here to help you succeed in your studies and in your life by giving tips for taking care of yourself, teaching you ways of managing your wellbeing and providing information on how to look out for your peers too.
If you are a student, you can access free and confidential counselling through the HealthHero phone line - available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/wellbeing-and-counselling/free-247-counselling-phone-line:
As a student, you can access free and confidential counselling through the HealthHero phone line.
Speak to a trained counsellor by calling +44 (0)800 970 1080 .
We know it can sometimes be difficult to manage your studies and personal life and occasionally  you just need someone to talk to.
We want to make sure you are able to get access to counselling support whenever you need it.
Although we have our dedicated Student Support team, this service allows you to get through to someone without a wait.
The HealthHero phone line is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, which means you don't need to wait to get immediate support.
The service can provide you with advice and support whether you are in a crisis or not - so if you just want to chat about your mental health and wellbeing, you can still ring the number.
To get in touch with the HealthHero phone line call +44 (0)800 970 1080 .
We also recommend that you take a look at our wellbeing resources .
Please note: the HealthHero phone line can't support you with your academic studies.
However, if you do need additional support or guidance on anything beyond (or including) your mental health, please contact our askUS team .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/urgent-support/concerns-about-a-students-welfare-or-behaviour:
If you are concerned about a student’s welfare you should take appropriate steps if it is an emergency such as calling an ambulance if they are suicidal or calling the police if you believe they are missing and at risk.
However, you can also inform us of your concerns by contacting askUS whether you take immediate action or not.
We will take any appropriate steps in relation to the information you provide but may not be able to inform you of this due to the requirements of confidentiality.
You can also use Report It to report a concerning behaviour on campus such as: bullying, racism, domestic abuse, hate incidents and hate crime, child abuse, sexual assault, sexual harassment and misconduct, exploitation, coercion and radicalisation.
If you are experiencing issues arising from a student’s behaviour you should take steps appropriate to the situation such as contacting your local Council about noise complaints or rubbish collection issues or potentially contacting the police in relation to criminal activity.
You can also inform us of your concerns by contacting askUS whether you take immediate action or not.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/urgent-problems/imminent-risks-to-other-people:
If you are worried that someone is at risk of harm and are concerned for their welfare, you can contact police non-emergency on 101.
The police can organise a welfare check (if they feel this is necessary) and can also alert other services such as social services.
This should then result in appropriate action on issues such as professional practice review if the person is in a relevant profession, or their training is regulated by a professional body.
If you do report concerns like this and they involve our staff or students, you can let us know about it at Report It .
Imminent eviction, homelessness or financial hardship
For housing problems during service hours, you can talk to askUS and they may be able to help.
Otherwise the organisation Shelter offers online advice and also a helpline.
If you are in financial hardship talk to the askUS team .
Food banks are available however you may need a referral.
You can find more information on using a food bank via Citizen's Advice .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/urgent-support/health-and-mental-health-concerns-and-injuries:
If you are seriously hurt or unwell , including if you are feeling suicidal , go to your nearest Accident and Emergency department, or call 999 to ask for an ambulance.
Papyrus provides dedicated support for people under 35 who are feeling suicidal 10:00-22:00 weekdays, 14:00-22:00 weekends, 14:00-17:00 bank holidays.
Call +44 (0)800 068 4141 , text +44 (0)7786 209 697 or email pat@papyrus-uk.org .
If you are feeling in severe mental distress you can also contact:
If you have a less serious but still urgent health problem , you can call the National Health Service advice line on 111 or use 111 online .
If you’ve run out of your prescribed medicines , find out how to get an emergency prescription .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/urgent-support/suicide-or-self-harm:
Thoughts of suicide are common.
Many adults will experience suicidal thoughts at some point in their lives.
The feelings that drive suicide are often temporary and situation-specific, for instance, a stressful event associated with feelings of loss can trigger suicidal thoughts.
If you have any other questions or need support or advice, or would like to suggest any improvements to the guidance and support we offer, please contact askUS .
If you are feeling suicidal, the most important thing is to talk to someone.
If you are going through a difficult period, you may feel isolated and disconnected from your personal support networks.
You may also worry about the reaction and impact on those close to you if you share thoughts of suicide.
It may feel awkward to start a conversation and there isn’t a right or wrong way to talk about suicidal feelings.
Starting the conversation is what’s important.
People care and want to help.
Professional support is available and easy to access.
You may want to talk to a trusted family member, a friend, a colleague, a staff member in your department, Wellbeing and Counselling or your GP.
Our team of advisers and Counsellors offer confidential and non-judgmental appointments .
The advisers have a wealth of experience and skills including Mental Health First Aid and suicide prevention training.
They will listen to you and seek to understand how you are feeling.
Our team can help you identify and access therapeutic and/or medical support, suggest adjustments to study and agree a safety plan with you.
A safety plan is a personalised plan to support you step by step during periods when you're feeling suicidal.
The advisers are based across campus.
If you're living in a hall of residence, you can speak to on-site staff who will be able to assist you if needed.
They can call emergency services if you need them or refer you to Wellbeing and Counselling .
What to do if someone has shared suicidal thoughts or plans
If a student is in immediate danger of harming themselves or attempting to take their own life, advise them to go directly to the Accident & Emergency (A&E) department of their local hospital to get help.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/urgent-support/violence-crime-and-other-serious-incidents:
If you are on or near campus you can also contact the University Security team 24 hours on their emergency number +44 (0)161 295 3333 (the non-emergency number is +44 (0)161 295 4773 ).
If you have called the police to the campus please let the Security team know as they can provide support.
If you have been the victim of crime you can call the police and also the Victim Support Service provides a range of services.
If you have been raped or sexually assaulted you can contact the St.
Mary’s Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC) in Manchester which offers a comprehensive specialist care service for adults and children who have experienced rape or sexual assault either recently or historically.
If you are outside Manchester you can find your nearest SARC here.
We have also produced guidance to help you understand different options available to you and have more information on Report It .
If you are experiencing domestic abuse you can call the Refuge National Domestic Abuse Helpline 24 hours on +44 (0)808 200 0247 (free to call within the UK) and visit the information on Report It .
Safe in Salford , a front door for domestic abuse support, are holding monthly drop-in sessions on campus with specialist advisers who can offer advice if you are experiencing domestic violence or if you have concerns for a friend or family member - no appointment is needed.
If you are afraid you may be imprisoned or taken abroad against your will for the purposes of marriage you can contact the Forced Marriage Unit for help.
Call +44 (0)207 008 0151 09:00-17:00 weekdays.
At other times call +44 (0)207 008 1500 and ask for the Global Response Centre.
If you are outside the UK call +44 (0)207 008 0151 (not free call).
Email fmu@fco.gov.uk .
Karma Nirvana can also provide support and advice for victims or those in danger of honour based abuse and forced marriage.
You can contact the UK helpline on +44 (0)800 599 9247 between 09:00-17:00 Monday to Friday.
You can also email them: info@karmanirvana.org.uk .
If you have been the victim of bullying or harassment or have witnessed bullying or harassment (even when online), please head to Report It .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/request-call-back:
Ready to apply through Clearing?
Our friendly team is here to help.
Just fill in the form below to request a call back, and we’ll be in touch to talk you through your next steps.
When you’ve received all your exam results and you’re ready to apply, just complete the form linked below to request a call back from our Clearing team.
Once we’ve got your details, we’ll be in touch by the next working day or sooner.
Please note: If you require a student visa to study in the UK, we’re unable to accept applications through Clearing for 2025.
You can find information about joining one of our 2026 intakes on our international entry requirements and deadlines page.
Already applied online, or called and have an application in progress?
No need to do anything else - we’ve got your details and will be in touch soon.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-2025-faqs:
If you've got questions about Clearing, we've got you covered.
The FAQs in this guide answer everything you need to know, so you can feel confident and prepared when you're ready to apply.
Clearing can be a confusing time, but we're here to help.
If you're looking for information about finding and applying for a course through Clearing, you'll find the answers you need here.
Before you learn how to apply through Clearing, it’s important to know what it is.
If you have a general question about Clearing, find the answer here.
Learn what Clearing is, find out if you're eligible to apply, know when to contact universities in Clearing, and more.
Get all the information you need right here.
Clearing is a UCAS service that allows you to apply for university courses that still have available places, provided you meet the eligibility criteria.
UCAS will open Clearing on 5 July 2025 and close it in October 2025.
However, it's important to note that many universities, including Salford, are likely to fill their places before Clearing closes.
You can apply to university through Clearing if you meet any of the following criteria:
If you're considering applying through Clearing, we recommend starting your research early to be well-prepared when it’s time to apply.
Please note that you can only apply through Clearing once you’ve received your exam results.
You cannot reapply for the same course through Clearing if your application was rejected in the main cycle.
However, you can apply for a different course that has available places.
You're free to contact to as many universities and colleges as you like to explore different courses and find out what university life is like.
However, keep in mind that you can only accept one Clearing offer from one college or university.
So, take your time, thoroughly research your options, and consider your decision carefully before making a choice.
Clearing Plus is a UCAS tool that matches students with universities based on their course choices and grades.
You can use Clearing Plus if this is the first time you’ve applied to a university, or if you have previously applied through UCAS but didn’t receive any offers.
Course availability in Clearing is limited, and once all vacancies are filled, the course closes for the current year.
To secure your place on your chosen course, contact us as soon as you receive your exam results.
We offer a wide range of courses through Clearing, with the full list to be confirmed in July 2025.
In the meantime, you can browse all our courses using our course search tool or explore some of our most popular Clearing courses, including:
Can't see the course you're interested in this list?
Browse our full list of courses in Clearing today.
If you're interested in a Clearing course, the quickest way to apply is by giving us a call on +44 (0)300 555 5030 .
If calling isn’t convenient, you can also request a call back or apply online .
It’s important to know that you’ll need to have all your results before applying, as universities can only make unconditional offers during Clearing.
Our team is available to support you with Clearing enquiries, Monday to Friday between 10:00 and 16:00.
You can contact us on +44 (0)300 555 5030 for guidance and answers to any questions you may have.
We'll be extending our opening hours around A-level results – here's when you can reach us:
We can only give you an unconditional offer in Clearing, so you need all your results before we can offer you a place.
Applying through Clearing is how thousands of students secure a place on their ideal course every year.
However, the process can feel stressful if you're not familiar with it.
If you're unsure whether applying to university through Clearing is right for you, don't worry – we've outlined a range of scenarios that might apply to your situation.
If you haven’t registered with UCAS, you can make your Clearing application directly through us.
As soon as you have your exam results and are ready to apply, get in touch with our friendly team on +44 (0)300 555 5030 .
They will assist with your application, confirm whether we can offer you a place, and answer any questions you have.
Calling is the quickest way to contact us, but you can also request a call back or apply online .
If you applied to university through UCAS by 30 June 2025 but didn’t receive any offers, you will automatically enter Clearing.
Once you have your exam results, you can apply for a course through Clearing.
When you’re ready to apply, contact us on +44 (0)300 555 5030 to discuss your options.
Our Clearing advisors will guide you through the next steps and confirm whether we can offer you a place.
Calling is the fastest way to get in touch, but you can also request a call back or apply online .
We understand how disappointing it can be not to achieve the grades you hoped for.
But even if it wasn’t your original plan, applying through Clearing can open new and exciting opportunities.
Before you apply to the University of Salford through Clearing, first check the status of your application on the UCAS Applicant Hub to see if your firm or insurance choice university has confirmed your place.
If you haven't been successful at your chosen university, contact our Clearing helpline on +44 (0)300 555 5030 to explore your options.
We're here and are ready to help you find your place.
We’re so happy to hear that you’re considering the University of Salford!
If you’ve been accepted by your firm or insurance choice university but want to study at the University of Salford, contact our Clearing team on +44 (0)300 555 5030 to discuss your options.
If we offer you a place through Clearing and you choose to accept it, you will need to visit the UCAS Applicant Hub and release yourself into Clearing.
You’ll then need to add your new course as a Clearing choice on UCAS.
Before you release yourself into Clearing, please make sure that you talk to us first to check our vacancies and your eligibility for the course you want to study.
To see whether your place is confirmed, you can check the UCAS Applicant Hub or call our helpline on +44 (0)300 555 5030 – select option 1 to speak to our confirmation team.
If your place with us is confirmed – congratulations!
We’ll be in touch with you soon with details about what happens next.
If you’ve been unsuccessful, we’re sorry – this means we’re unable to offer you a place on your chosen course this year.
If this happens, you can still contact our confirmation team to discuss your options.
Once you’ve contacted us to discuss the course you're interested in, we’ll send you an offer if we’re able to make one.
You will then need to submit your application.
In some cases, we may ask for additional information to support your application.
Once we’ve received everything, we’ll update you on the outcome within five working days.
We will explain this process at each step of the way, keeping you fully informed as your application progresses.
Got your results?
Not sure if you're in Clearing?
Need to contact us to apply for a place?
Read the answers to these commonly asked questions to make sure you're prepared on results day.
If you have not been accepted by your firm or insurance choice universities after receiving your exam results, your UCAS Applicant Hub will show that you have been placed into Clearing.
We can only discuss your Clearing application directly with you, not your parents, carers, advisors, or friends.
Please make sure you're available to speak with us when you're ready to apply, so we can discuss your options together.
We understand that you may feel nervous or anxious before you call, but please remember that our experienced team is here to help you step-by-step and guide you in finding and applying for the perfect course.
Before you call us, make sure you have the following information at hand:
What are UCAS tariff points?
UCAS tariff points are a way of measuring your academic achievements (such as A-levels, BTECs or other qualifications) converted into a numerical score.
Universities use these points to assess whether you meet the entry requirements for a course.
Why do you need them?
When you speak to one of our advisors, we will ask for your tariff points to see if you are eligible for the course you are interested in.
Not sure how many point you have?
You can work out your UCAS tariff points in advance using our UCAS Tariff Calculator , which shows you how many points each of your qualifications is worth.
Our Clearing helpline will be busy on results day, and our team will be working hard to address every call as quickly as possible.
If you face any wait times, please bear with us and stay on the line until you connect with one of our team members.
If you've submitted a form for a call back, filled out an online application form, or spoken with one of our Clearing advisors who confirmed they would call you back, please be patient and wait for your call.
Results day is busy, but we will make sure we contact you as soon as we can.
Congratulations on being offered a place!
Find out what you need to do next.
After we’ve made you a Clearing offer, we’ll email you with your next steps – whether it’s adding your course as a Clearing choice on UCAS or completing a direct application via our online portal.
Please keep an eye on your inbox and spam folder for these instructions.
If you’ve expressed an interest in finding out more about student accommodation, we’ll contact you once you’ve been made a Clearing offer.
In the meantime, you can explore general information about student accommodation on our accommodation page.
If you've been made an offer through Clearing and need support with fees and funding , we recommend applying for student finance as soon as possible.
The sooner you apply, the sooner your student loan can be confirmed to you in time for you to start your studies.
You don't need to have a confirmed place on a course in order to start your student finance application, you can use your first choice of course and then change your application if you need to.
If you've already applied for student finance and your university, college or course changes, you'll need to sign in to your student finance account online and update your details in order to inform your student finance provider of any changes.
If you are going through Student Finance England to apply for your student loan, then you might want to check out this guidance from UCAS for students going through Clearing .
If you're considering applying to university through Clearing, read our helpful tips and advice to help you make the right decision for you.
Choosing the right university and course is a big decision, and if you’re applying through Clearing you may feel like you need to decide quickly.
To help you make an informed choice, we recommend starting your research as soon as possible.
That way, you’ll have more time to consider the different options available to you.
When you’re researching different courses and universities, make sure you consider important factors, such as the university's location, how the course is taught, and what opportunities are available.
At Salford, we offer a wide range of courses across many subjects.
Many of our courses also offer options for work placements, internships, or studying abroad.
If you want to discuss your options, it can be helpful to speak to teachers, parents, and friends.
They may have been through the Clearing process themselves or have valuable insights to offer.
If you have any questions about our courses or what student life is like here, remember that our Clearing team is also available to help you.
You can contact them to discuss your situation and the options available to you.
Not sure how many UCAS points your qualifications add up to?
Our UCAS points calculator can help.
Simply select your qualifications and enter your grades.
The calculator will do the rest, adding up your points automatically.
It’s quick and easy to use.
If you’re taking a mixture of qualifications, such as A-levels and BTECs, the calculator can work that out too.
You can use it at any point while exploring your Clearing options.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/undergraduate/ucas-tariff-points-calculator:
Understanding your UCAS tariff points is a key step in planning your university application.
Our UCAS points calculator makes it easy to convert your qualifications, such as A-levels, BTECs, or T levels, into UCAS tariff points.
Use the UCAS tariff calculator tool to check your eligibility for undergraduate courses and explore your next steps with the University of Salford.
UCAS Tariff points convert your qualifications and grades into a single numerical score.
Most, but not all, qualifications are assigned a tariff value, which depends on both the type of qualification and the grade you achieved.
Universities use these points to help determine if you meet the entry requirements for their courses.
At the University of Salford, we use UCAS Tariff points as part of our course entry requirements.
However, we may also accept qualifications that do not have Tariff points, so please check the specific entry requirements for your chosen course carefully.
Don't worry if you can't see your qualification on our list, that doesn't necessarily mean we don't accept it.
If you need to check with us, please give us a call on +44 (0)300 555 5030 .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/apply-online:
Apply online today for a course in Clearing.
Once you've completed the form, we'll be in touch to discuss your application.
When you’ve received all your exam results and you’re ready to apply, just complete the Clearing application form via the button below.
Already requested a callback or called us and have an application in progress?
We’ve got your details and will be in touch shortly - you don’t need to do anything further.
If you require a student visa to study in the UK, we’re unable to accept Clearing applications for 2025.
You can learn more about applying for one of our 2026 intakes on our international entry requirements and deadlines page.
The Clearing application form takes less than five minutes to fill out.
We’ll ask for the course you’re interested in, your qualifications, some personal details, and whether you are interested in accommodation.
Once you’ve submitted the form, we’ll be in touch by the next working day or sooner.
If you have any questions in the meantime, you can contact us at enquiries@salford.ac.uk or call +44 (0)161 295 4545 .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/accounting-and-finance:
Clearing 2025 is now open.
Explore our Accounting and Finance Clearing courses today.
Find out what you'll study and how we’ll prepare you for your future career.
Our accounting and finance Clearing courses are career-focused and industry-informed.
From advanced financial reporting to investment management, our courses provide a holistic approach to the industry.
They will provide you with a thorough understanding of accounting and finance within the wider context of business and management and allow you to specialise in your final year.
Our accounting and finance Clearing courses teach key industry-standard tools, such as Microsoft Excel and Minitab.
You will also explore future technologies, including artificial intelligence and automation.
We’ll also help you develop your communication, teamwork, and problem-solving skills, ensuring you’re ready to immerse yourself in the world of work and make vital connections for your career.
Ready to get started?
Find your ideal accounting and finance Clearing course today.
The modules delivered on our accounting and finance courses in Clearing allow you to specialise in areas ranging from economics to business.
They will prepare you to meet the ever-growing needs of employers seeking high-calibre candidates to fill their roles.
Our courses are also accredited by the major industry bodies ( ACCA , CIMA , ICAEW and CIPFA ), meaning that what you learn is aligned with industry standards.
You can start your path towards ACCA qualifications, benefit from CIMA student membership (your registration fee is paid by us) and get exemptions from some professional exams.
We have a wide range of professional opportunities to offer you.
In addition to this, you will study in an encouraging environment where you are more than just a number, with academic and professional services teams that are on hand to support you throughout your studies.
Our full range of courses in Clearing for accounting and finance are listed below.
If you love numbers and enjoy problem-solving, then our BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance course is perfect for you.
The modules delivered on this course are designed around the current needs of employers, ensuring you are ready to enter employment as soon as you graduate.
You’ll have the opportunity to join ACCA Accelerate and become a student member of the CIMA, fast-tracking you on your journey to become a chartered certified finance professional.
One of the main advantages of studying our BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance with Placement Year course is the chance to take an optional placement year, where you will gain hands-on experience while earning an income.
Most students who take a placement year see quantifiable improvements in their academic results.
Plus, we encourage students to continue their association with the organisation they worked for, to help with their networking opportunities.
If you are interested in our accounting and finance Clearing courses, but need additional preparation, then our foundation year route is perfect for you.
On our accounting and finance degree with foundation year , you will gain core knowledge that you can build on throughout the remainder of your course.
Our foundation year modules cover the key principles of accounting for business, IT for accountants, and the foundations of human resource management.
Once you’ve completed your foundation year, you can progress onto a full honours degree course.
BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance student, Huda, shares her experience on placements, careers support, and the industry-ready skills she’s gaining:
“Salford’s career and industry support has been amazing.
After advice from my programme leads, I chose a placement year and I’m now gaining real industry experience before I graduate.”
During her studies, Huda received support from the Business School and Careers and Enterprise team, including help with CV writing, mock interviews, and opportunities to connect with employers.
“Thanks to this support, I feel ready and confident to succeed in the industry.”
Harry, who is studying BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance with Placement Year , tells us about his experience on placement at the Northern Care Alliance (NCA) NHS Foundation Trust:
“I wanted to gain more experience and expand on what I’ve been learning at university to make sure that when I finish my degree, I’m as prepared as possible to join the financial and accounting world.
At a presentation organised through my course, I got information about placements at the National Care Alliance.
After that, I applied for a placement role.
There was an interview and now I’m here.
I deal a lot with the NHS PE weekly files.
NHS PE is a standalone organisation that provides medical and agency staff.
They send me an invoice for the shifts staff have worked, and I manage the cost centres, data and formulas, send these to each care organisation, then post a journal to get it on the ledger.
I love it.
I enjoy the responsibility.
There are weekly deadlines to keep on top of, but I feel like I’m learning a lot.
I can’t stress enough how much I recommend doing a placement.
You need to go in with the right attitude, but if you do, you’ll gain skills you didn’t know you needed to learn.
You get a real grasp of the working world, and it gets you into successful working habits.
It’s been rewarding and challenging – but most importantly, really enjoyable.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/architecture-clearing-courses:
Explore our Architecture Clearing courses today.
Find out what you'll study and how we’ll prepare you for your future career.
Our architecture Clearing degrees combine your creativity, design, and critical thinking skills.
Led by our expert tutors, you will learn how to assess a building’s performance and explore the relationship between form, space, and materials.
With Manchester as a backdrop for our courses, you will be immersed in urban history and creative thinking.
Our available architecture Clearing courses allow you to choose from a variety of specialisms, including architectural design and technology, architectural engineering, and interior architecture.
We offer a range of industry-informed and design-focused architecture degrees in Clearing.
Working in our professional studio environment, you will build practical design and analytical skills through our hands-on learning approach.
Are you fascinated by cities and urban life?
Then our BSc (Hons) Architecture Clearing course is ideal for you.
On this course, we will help you gain the skills to shape our future built environment.
You will learn how to design new buildings and public spaces, and reinvent, restore, and convert existing ones.
Our expert tutors are on-hand to provide support and guidance as you progress through your course.
There are also optional overseas study visits, providing you with further inspiration for your work.
If you’re ready to make amazing design concepts a reality, then there’s no better place to look than our BSc (Hons) Architectural Design and Technology course.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT) , meaning you will be ready to enter the profession as soon as you graduate.
During your studies, you will learn architectural theory as you complete practical design projects using industry software, including building information modelling (BIM) and computer-aided design (CAD).
You will also have the option of taking a placement year, giving you the chance to gain real-world experience and boost your employability.
BSc (Hons) Architectural Design and Technology with Foundation Year is an excellent route if you need some additional support and guidance before starting university-level study.
You will learn design, surveying, and construction techniques, and build analytical and problem-solving skills before progressing onto our BSc (Hons) Architectural Design and Technology degree.
Interested in finding imaginative and environmentally friendly uses for pre-existing buildings and public spaces?
Discover our BSc (Hons) Interior Architecture course, which will prepare you to change our built environments for the better.
Interior architecture is all about designing a structure from the inside out.
The field has a particular focus on finding imaginative and sustainable uses for existing buildings, especially in the space-constrained cities and urban environments we live in.
Experience live briefs and guest lectures from local interior architecture and engineering firms.
They will teach you how to appreciate the ergonomics of a space and maximise a building’s potential.
Our BSc (Hons) Interior Architecture with Foundation Year pathway is designed to help you build a solid base of key design and architecture principles, so you can grow and develop your confidence.
Studying Interior Architecture, you will find imaginative and sustainable uses for existing buildings, focusing on space-constrained cities and urban environments.
As you progress onto the full degree course, you will join a vibrant multidisciplinary community and study alongside architects, construction managers, and quantity surveyors to gain a holistic approach to interior architecture.
Want to combine your love of technology, science, and creativity?
Our BSc (Hons) Architectural Engineering course is ideal for you.
Learn how to bring together architectural and engineering disciplines and join a vibrant student community.
There are few better places in the UK to study architecture than Salford.
Study in our dynamic studio environment and showcase your design skills at our Degree Show.
Ready to shape the future of architecture through bold ideas and real-world practice?
Our MArch Architecture course is your next step towards becoming a fully qualified architect.
Delivered from our studios in the heart of the world’s first industrial city, you’ll join the Salford Laboratory of Architecture (S-LAB) – a creative, research-led environment where architecture meets innovation, social impact, and design experimentation.
Over two years, you’ll explore the relationship between people, place, and technology through studio-based projects, immersive workshops, and live briefs with leading industry partners.
With access to cutting-edge facilities and expert academic support, you’ll gain the confidence, knowledge, and professional insight to thrive in today’s architectural world.
This is a postgraduate course, so you’ll typically need an undergraduate architecture degree – usually with ARB/RIBA Part 1 exemption and a minimum 2:1.
Completion of all three ARB Parts is required to register as a qualified architect in the UK.
When studying an architecture Clearing degree with us, you will benefit from live industry briefs, site visits, and real-world projects with our established industry partners.
This will enable you to build your portfolio and become one step ahead of other graduates when you’re ready to enter the world of work.
Our tutors will help you develop your research skills while you study current industry practices, with guidance from local architectural design and engineering practices.
We've designed our architecture degrees to nurture your development and creativity.
Whether you're passionate about design, or want to shape cities across the world, our architecture Clearing degrees will prepare you for your future career.
“I really like the fact that our briefs are quite technical as this pushes our boundaries.
We can make visuals through CAD software such as SketchUp and Revit, and use our strengths to pull it together.
It’s amazing to see my designs come to life when making models.
It’s not a case of looking at paper and trying to visualise it, instead you can see what your designs will be like using small 3D printed furniture and people to help provide scale.”
- Matthew, BSc (Hons) Architecture student.
When you study one of our architecture degrees, you will be based in our new SEE Building studios.
The studios have been meticulously designed to ignite your creativity and foster collaboration.
You’ll have full access to state-of-the-art workshops equipped with laser cutters and 3-D printers, enabling you to experiment, refine, and finalise your design ideas.
With our digitally enriched learning facilities, you’ll have an extensive array of resources at your fingertips.
Our architecture facilities and resources include:
Each year, our Architecture Degree Show gives final-year students the opportunity to showcase their work in a professional setting and celebrate what they’ve achieved.
From thoughtful design concepts to carefully made models and drawings, the exhibition highlights the range of talent across the course.
It’s a chance for visitors to see fresh ideas and creative thinking from the next generation of architects.
The show reflects the individuality and energy we support throughout the course – and if you’re thinking about studying Architecture at the University of Salford, it’s a good insight into where the degree could take you.
Industry collaboration is central to learning here at the University of Salford, and our architecture students have opportunities to gain experience on live architectural projects.
Watch our access to industry video to learn more about our students' work at Islington Mill – a former mill building that is now home to a thriving community of artists and creatives.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/biomedical-science:
Explore our Biomedical Science Clearing courses today.
Interested in understanding human health and the diagnosis and treatment of disease?
Want to join a generation of scientists training to defeat viruses?
Then our biomedical science Clearing courses are for you.
We’ve designed our biomed Clearing courses to be tailored around you and your future career.
Two of our Clearing biomedical science degrees have a range of optional modules that you can take in your third year according to your interests.
Whether you're interested in how diseases work, want to help develop new treatments, or aim to make a difference in public health, our biomedical science courses in Clearing give you the foundation and flexibility to turn your goals into reality.
On our biomedical science Clearing courses, you’ll learn how to apply the principles of biology for medical purposes.
Our degree courses are designed to help you develop the lab skills needed to become a highly employable biomedical scientist – or embark on a career in medical laboratory research.
As a biomedical science student, you will be based in our advanced, integrated teaching laboratory, known as the Bodmer Lab .
This specialist, purpose-built facility ensures you’ll learn using the latest, cutting-edge technologies.
At the University of Salford, we’ll welcome you into a supportive environment where you are a name, not a number.
You will benefit from small group teaching and one-to-one support from your course tutors, providing you with the chance to learn from active research staff.
Our biomedical science Clearing courses have a strong practical focus and the option of going on an industry placement.
This offers a great opportunity to gain hands-on experience and make those early career connections.
Career support is also offered throughout GEMMS (Graduate Entry Medicine Mentoring at the University of Salford).
GEMMS is a programme that offers comprehensive mentorship in interview techniques, debating skills, and ethical scenarios.
Through GEMMS, we also facilitate opportunities for work experience and help students prepare for job interviews, to ensure they’re ready for their future career.
Our BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS), which means it meets their requirements for receiving up-to-date knowledge in the right learning, support and teaching environment.
Studying an accredited course shows employers that you have the knowledge and skills they are looking for in graduates.
Studying one of our accredited biomedical science courses in clearing also provides greater employability prospects and enhanced competitiveness in a crowded global jobs market.
You will have the option to take an industry placement year between years two and three of this course.
Although you will be responsible for securing your placement, a tutor will support you, monitor your progress and assess your final placement report.
Recent biomedical science students have completed placements with leading laboratories at Wythenshawe Hospital, Manchester Royal Infirmary, and Aintree Hospital.
If you’re interested in learning how to apply biology-based science to clinical medical situations, then our BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with Foundation Year is for you.
The foundation year of this four-year course will provide you with an understanding of the subject, to allow you to progress on to the BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course.
At the University of Salford, we encourage industry-focused learning.
Students have previously had the chance to visit local pathology laboratories and speak with external NHS specialists
Our BSc (Hons) Human Biology and Infectious Diseases degree in Clearing is a biomedicine-based subject that combines aspects of immunology, human physiology, and infectious diseases.
This course will set you on a career path to help identify and treat infectious and non-infectious diseases found across the world.
You will have the option to undertake a relevant industry placement in clinical or research-based settings, either within the UK or internationally.
Students have recently completed placements at the Wolfson Imaging Centre and Clinical Epidemiology Unit in Manchester.
If you are looking for a career in pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, public health, health care, scientific innovation, food manufacturing, teaching, or scientific communication, this course is ideal for you.
Today, you will find our graduates working with leading organisations including Cancer Research UK, Public Health England, and AstraZeneca.
As a student on this course, you’ll receive support to prepare you for your future career.
This includes access to various biomedicine career development groups, which offer opportunities to build your knowledge and gain industry experience.
Our BSc (Hons) Human Biology and Infectious Diseases with Foundation Year will help you prepare for university-level study by providing you with an essential understanding of biological principles that underpin the field.
After completing the foundation year, you can advance onto our BSc (Hons) Human Biology and Infectious Diseases course.
This biomedicine-based course combines the study of human biology with exploration of new ways to treat and eradicate disease.
By studying this course, you will develop the expertise necessary to address a range of global health challenges.
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science student, Thomas, tells us how studying this course and his placement in haematology led to him securing a job in the NHS.
Biomedical Science student Sara shares why she chose the University of Salford:
After starting medicine at another university, Sara soon realised it wasn’t the right fit for her.
Wanting to be closer to home and pursue a more research-focused path, she applied to Salford through Clearing and joined our BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course.
“Starting later than most was daunting, but the friendly, supportive staff made me feel welcome from day one.
The practical lab sessions and encouraging lecturers helped build my confidence and made me feel part of the class.”
Sara secured a Wellcome Trust placement in oncology research, which gave her valuable hands-on experience and confirmed her passion for research.
Now graduating with a first-class degree, Sara is preparing for postgraduate study and a future career in medical research.
“Clearing set me on a path I didn’t think would be mine, but it turned out to be exactly where I was meant to be.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/business-management-clearing:
Explore our Business Management Clearing courses today.
Explore our wide range of business Clearing courses, including Business Management and International Business Management .
Whether you're interested in launching your own start-up or creating strategies in global corporations, our business Clearing options give you the opportunity to start your career with confidence.
Business is a dynamic and thriving sector that focuses on the art and science of running complex organisations.
To help you succeed in your future business career, we also offer Clearing courses that combine business with:
Salford Business School offers one of the most practical university educations, allowing you to develop skills in digital technology, ethical practice, and creative thinking.
Our business management Clearing courses allow you to harness your professional expertise, through networking opportunities with our industry connections, and by working on live projects set by our industry partners.
On our BSc courses, you can also apply what you learn on work placements, allowing you to put your skills into practice.
Here at Salford, you will study in a supportive environment where you are more than just a number.
Our academic and professional services teams are here to support you, both personally and professionally.
You’ll be taught in small groups and have access to your academic tutors, who will give you full support during your studies.
We offer various study routes tailored for the level of support and guidance you need.
Whatever route you choose, if you’re excited by the future of business, then our business management Clearing courses are for you.
Interested in starting your own business?
Our business management Clearing courses will help you to achieve your ambitions.
Launch@ Salford is an incubation centre based on our campus that is dedicated to start-up businesses.
You can apply for funding, make use of the space for your business, book private meeting rooms and use the networking lounge to begin making those important professional connections.
We’ve collaborated closely with industry on the development of all our business management degree courses.
This ensures that your learning is highly practical, geared towards your career, and deeply informed by real-world insights.
The future of business is one filled with opportunity and progress.
Over the past couple of years, the business world has had to cope with a variety of changes and progress further into the digital age.
If you’re excited by the prospect of a future career in business and creating innovative methods of working, then our business management Clearing courses are perfect for you.
Our business management degree course is designed to help you reach beyond your ambition, find out what you can achieve, and become your best self.
You will develop the leadership and management skills needed for business, helping you to grow into a well-rounded professional.
You’ll also graduate with an entrepreneurial mindset – an asset that is invaluable for employers.
On our business and economics Clearing course, you will get to the heart of economic challenges faced by organisations and societies across the globe.
You will also have the chance to develop your CV with an optional placement year, and train in specialist software packages such as Excel, Stata, and Minitab – all of which are used by leading economics experts.
This course allows you to explore the real world of business and economics.
With an industry-informed curriculum, you will study real-life examples and critically examine the implications of economic theories and problems.
If you want to start your own company, become an entrepreneur, or create a social enterprise, choose our BSc Business Management with Entrepreneurship course.
This course will teach you how to develop a range of skills vital for setting up your own business.
You'll also learn the theories and practices of managing a business, and understand how to identify opportunities, develop your ideas and raise start-up funds.
Even if self-employment is not for you, these skills are welcomed by employers looking for creative and innovative thinkers who can look ahead to develop future business.
If you’re looking for a solid business education that will allow you to explore your flair for numbers, consider our Business Management with Finance courses.
Whether you’re looking for a career in financial management, financial analysis, system analysis, or banking, this degree will provide you with the opportunity to develop your professional skill sets.
As such, many of our graduates go on to enjoy successful and rewarding careers for organisations such as American Express, the BBC, and Citibank.
Graduating with a degree in business management with finance will help you take the first steps in your career.
This is thanks to the course’s professional development options and training in Sage, Excel, and Minitab, which is embedded into your learning.
Regardless of sector, human resources professionals who can motivate employees are highly sought after.
Our business with human resource management course has been designed to reflect the national framework of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), making it highly practical and reflective of best practice.
This course sets human resource management within the wider business context, allowing you to develop an understanding of how organisations are run.
From awareness of employment law to developing effective communication, you will build a portfolio of professional evidence that will enhance your CV and help you in job applications and interviews.
This industry-informed degree combines a practice-based use of digital tools with a challenging academic curriculum, bringing together modules from IT, computing, and business management programmes.
With recent advancements in information technology creating a huge number of challenges and opportunities for organisations, there’s never been a better time to pursue this fascinating subject.
By studying this undergraduate degree, you will be prepared and qualified for these exciting new opportunities, making you highly employable in this growing sector.
Our business management with law programme is a fantastic opportunity for ambitious individuals to prepare for a wide variety of managerial careers.
With a combination of modules focused on business and law, you’ll gain an understanding of the legal needs of organisations and how regulations impact their operations, providing you with a marked advantage when entering the world of business.
You will also work on international case studies that focus on global issues, equipping you with the skills you need in comparative analysis to specialise in a particular area of law.
Marketing is one of the most exciting, fast-paced, and varied careers in the business world, combining both creative and analytical skills.
This degree course sets marketing within the wider business context, allowing you to develop a range of leadership and management skills needed for your career.
Creativity, digital skills, and social media competencies are integral parts of this course, as well as entrepreneurship and innovation, that are central to our teaching.
You’ll also benefit from our industry links, with guest speakers from the public, private and not-for-profit sectors providing you with an insight into how different organisations market themselves.
Do you have a passion for sport and the ambition to succeed in business?
This course gives you the skills, knowledge, and industry experience needed for a management career in the global sports industry.
With expertise in event management, marketing and digital technologies, and sports media, our reputation for teaching, research and knowledge development is reflective of a region that is home to two of the most valuable and recognised football clubs in the world.
Our close partnerships with several sports organisations (including Manchester City, Salford Red Devils, Super League, Salford City, and Manchester Storm) mean that you will receive fantastic opportunities for real-world experience and networking.
On our business with supply chain and project management course, you’ll study core areas of business management while examining key topics in supply chain, logistics, distribution, and project management.
If you’re interested in how major retailers supply their customers, how businesses and governments manage global connectivity, and how climate change and resource shortages affect business decisions, choose this innovative and forward-looking course.
Our international business management course will provide you with the practical skills that employers are looking for.
Now that technology is connecting businesses across the world, professionals who understand how different economic and cultural influences impact decisions are highly sought after.
With the opportunity to work on live projects and business simulations, you will learn the fundamentals of business management, while developing skills in problem-solving, leadership and data analysis.
Our graduates have gone on to work for a wide range of organisations, including IBM, HSBC, RBS and Manchester United.
As well as offering a range of Business Management BSc courses, we also offer an HND in Esports Business Management .
An HND is a hands-on, career-focused qualification that provides the same high level of support and teaching as a degree – but in a shorter timeframe.
It’s ideal if you’re looking to build valuable skills and real-world experience that can lead straight into employment.
You can start an HND after completing qualifications like BTECs or A-levels.
With the Esports market booming in recent years, so has the demand for talented graduates with a specific set of talents.
Our bespoke HND Esports Business Management course has been developed with the help of leading industry experts, who have tailored the curriculum to produce qualified and knowledgeable graduates ready to take the Esports industry by storm.
Our students tell us why they chose to study at Salford Business School.
"When I phoned the University of Salford during Clearing, the person on the other end of the phone was so calming and reassuring that everything was going to be okay.
I started the call stressed and in floods of tears and finished the call with the biggest smile on my face – that’s how I knew Salford was the place for me."
Milly - BSc (Hons) Business Management with Marketing student.
Learn more about Milly's Clearing story .
"Throughout the delivery of the modules, I was constantly learning new skills as well as enhancing my existing knowledge.
Salford aims to increase students' understanding and prepares them to face any obstacles.
The teaching team also play a significant part in building professional confidence.
We are encouraged to seek help and ask questions if we struggle with modules."
Jill – BSc (Hons) Business Management student.
“As Salford students, we have unlimited access to the careers team, who can guide you in preparing your professional CV and cover letters.
They also provide workshops, ensuring that all students are well-equipped for their work experience.”
Rachel – B Sc (Hons) Business Management with Economics student.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/chemical-science-clearing-courses:
Explore our Chemical Science Clearing courses today.
Are you interested in solving some of the century’s most complex problems in medicine, climate change, and technology?
Are you ready to explore a versatile, ever-evolving field that opens doors to diverse career opportunities in exciting industries?
If so, our chemical science courses in Clearing are for you.
Our courses include:
At the University of Salford, you will learn from industry-leading lecturers who are at the forefront of research, gaining hands-on experience that hones your critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
Our chemical science courses can be tailored to your interests and aspirations.
We’re here to help you discover the perfect fit for your future career path.
Whichever chemical science Clearing course you study, you will be based in our advanced, integrated teaching laboratory known as the Bodmer Lab .
This £3 million facility is equipped with the latest technologies, ensuring that your education keeps pace with cutting-edge innovation and discovery.
If you've not yet had a chance to visit our campus, take a look below at a 360 of the Bodmer Lab.
Our chemical science courses integrate the core branches of chemistry, meeting the growing needs of employers who seek highly skilled chemical scientists across a range of sectors.
Through our focus on applying theoretical knowledge and laboratory skills to find answers to current problems, you will appreciate how chemical science and its applications can transform the world we live in.
Browse our Chemical Science courses in Clearing:
Our BSc (Hons) Biochemistry Clearing degree is at the heart of cutting-edge research.
You will have the opportunity to explore the areas that most interest you, including biotechnology, toxicology, and much more.
When you embark on our biochemistry Clearing course, you’ll join a community of dedicated scientists and researchers, harnessing the power of molecules to unravel the complexities of living systems and drive innovations that shape the future.
Our biochemistry degree is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology which ensures the highest standards of teaching.
If you choose to do a placement year after the second year of the degree, then your degree will have 'Advanced Degree Accreditation' by the Royal Society of Biology.
Are you interested in combining your studies with a visit to America?
With our BSc (Hons) Biochemistry course, you have the opportunity to spend a year studying at the University of Toledo, Ohio , a leading centre for science with a reputation for taking research from the laboratory to the world.
Like the rest of our biochemistry Clearing courses, this degree is also accredited by the Royal Society of Biology .
This accreditation will prepare you to meet the needs of future employers and embark on a career in research that helps to solve real-world issues.
Our BSc (Hons) Biochemistry with Foundation Year is designed to help you build a strong foundational knowledge in both biology and chemistry, so you are ready to progress and succeed on the full honours degree.
The full BSc (Hons) Biochemistry degree is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology , meaning you will develop a solid academic foundation in biological knowledge, ready for future employment.
This biochemistry Clearing course focuses on providing you with cutting-edge scientific knowledge and techniques.
You will understand how organisms work at the molecular level in the fields of agriculture, medicine, chemical, and health-related industries.
Browse our Pharmaceutical science courses in Clearing:
Our BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical Science degree in Clearing is designed to ensure you can join the next generation of scientists applying new knowledge to create new treatments and interventions.
This course is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology .
Studying an accredited course is an ideal way to show future employers you have the skills and knowledge they are looking for in graduates.
It also has the benefit of greater employability prospects and enhanced competitiveness in a crowded global jobs market.
On this pharmaceutical science course, you’ll have the option to take an industry placement between years two and three.
Recent pharmaceutical science students have been offered placements at Pfizer in Kent, the Transplant Centre at Wythenshawe Hospital, and the Cancer Research UK Manchester Institute.
Our BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical Science with Foundation Year is recommended if you want to develop your career in biosciences but have a non-scientific background, or you don’t meet the entry requirements for direct entry to an honours degree.
The full BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical Science degree is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology .
Once you have successfully completed your foundation year and progress onto the full degree, you will build your academic knowledge and skills to join the next generation of scientists who design drugs that improve quality of life and can tackle pandemics and diseases.
As a chemical science student at Salford, you’ll get opportunities to go on placement where you can further your knowledge and passion for the chemical sciences and make a real contribution to new scientific developments.
You will have to find the placement yourself, but you will get plenty of support from your lecturers to find one that’s right for you.
Hear from University of Salford student Lydia Topping about her experience on placement at Cancer Research UK.
Gwyn chose to study a BSc (Hons) Biochemistry degree at the University of Salford – drawn by our industry-standard facilities and the supportive, hands-on approach of our academic staff.
Hear more about Gwyn’s experience with us:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/computer-science-clearing-courses:
Explore our Computer Science Clearing courses today.
Our range of computer science Clearing courses are ideal for those interested in visionary technology and fascinated by artificial intelligence.
Join us in embracing the digital revolution and become part of a community that's at the forefront of innovation.
Our computer science courses not only equip you with technical skills, but also foster critical thinking and adaptability.
Uncover your passion and potential.
Find your ideal computer science Clearing course today.
There has never been a more exciting time to study computer science, where visionary technologies are fast becoming the everyday.
From data structures and algorithms to AI and cyber security, our computer science Clearing courses provide you with the foundation and expertise needed to thrive in this fast-paced digital landscape.
On our computer science Clearing courses, you will benefit from a supportive environment through small group teaching and one-to-one support from your course tutors.
We will ensure you adopt a professional approach, making you aware of the laws, regulations, and competencies needed to work with other IT professionals.
All our computer science Clearing courses are accredited by the British Computer Society, the Chartered Institute for IT, meaning you’ll be educated to the highest industry standards.
This accreditation confirms that our courses meet the required standards for entering into an IT industry career.
Having an accredited course will make you stand out against other graduates in an overly competitive job market.
One of the other many advantages of studying a computer science degree with us is the opportunity to specialise in subject areas that align to your career goals.
You will also have the opportunity to take an industrial placement year between years two and three.
We offer a range of study routes on our computer science degrees in Clearing, enabling you to choose a course that fits the level of support and guidance you need:
Discover more about our individual computer science and software engineering courses available in Clearing.
As technology progresses and infiltrates daily life and every global industry, now is the time to study computer science.
Our BSc (Hons) Computer Science Clearing degree will give you a broad understanding of computing, with a core specialism in programming.
On our BSc (Hons) Computer Science course, you’ll graduate with a solution-focused approach and a critical awareness of applying the right skills to complete a specific goal.
Embedding collaboration with industry and working on real-world projects is an essential aspect of studying computing at the University of Salford.
Studying a British Computer Society accredited course means that you’ll have the benefits of receiving up-to-date knowledge in the right learning, support, and teaching environment.
Our BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Foundation Year course is designed for students who want to study the full honours degree, but don’t meet the direct entry requirements.
On successful completion of the foundation year, you'll progress on to the full computer science course.
On this course, you’ll gain programming practice through design, implementation and testing.
You’ll also develop a broad knowledge of computing by completing specially designed projects, learning methodical approaches and understanding the Java language.
Interested in how things work?
Got a keen eye for detail?
Then our BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Cyber Security course is for you.
You’ll be able to help businesses and organisations fight back against cyber criminals by using in-depth cyber security knowledge.
You’ll learn how to diagnose attacks and use forensics to determine the extent of the damage.
We’ll also help you cultivate independent technical judgement, ready for your future security-related roles.
Our BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Cyber Security with Foundation Year course is designed to help you build a strong foundation in computer systems and programming so you are ready to progress to the full honours degree.
During your studies, you will complete specially designed projects that will help you think conceptually and cultivate independent technical judgement.
At Salford, we’ll also help you build an in-depth understanding of programming, data mining, security, computer systems, and network penetration testing.
Interested in learning about computer networks and how different elements can be combined to create a whole?
Then our BSc (Hons) Computer Networks course is for you.
There has never been a more exciting time to build next-generation knowledge and skills in computer networks.
Led by a research-focused academic team, you’ll learn cutting-edge knowledge and skills to keep up with constantly evolving networks.
We’ll provide you with a systematic understanding of networks, including principles on how they work and how these are applied in industry.
Software systems are at the heart of all aspects of daily life, from communication to healthcare.
Our BSc (Hons) Software Engineering Clearing degree prepares you for a career in creating and maintaining usable and robust systems that are used across the globe.
You will have the opportunity to work on real-world challenges and build practical skills and knowledge of testing and maintaining object-orientated systems using the Java language.
We are excited to be part of the GM Cyber Foundry, the region's blueprint to be a leader in cyber and digital research and intelligence.
Our BSc (Hons) Software Engineering with Foundation Year course is designed to help you build a strong foundation in computer systems and programming, so you are ready to progress onto the full honours degree.
You’ll build practical skills, subject knowledge and real-world understanding, to become a professional software engineer.
We’ll help you develop methodical approaches to the analysis, design, development and testing of object-orientated systems using the Java language.
Data is transforming every industry – and our two-year DipHE in Data Science gives you the skills to be part of that change.
You’ll learn how to analyse real-world data using tools like Python and SQL, and explore key areas such as machine learning, AI and statistical analysis.
This hands-on course is built around practical workshops, group projects and industry-focused learning, giving you the experience employers are looking for.
It’s also recognised as a Higher Technical Qualification (HTQ), meaning it meets industry-approved standards and can lead straight into a data-driven career – or further study, if you choose.
Whether you choose software engineering or computer science in Clearing, you will learn collaboratively through HackCamp.
HackCamp brings computer science and software engineering students together to work in groups with industry mentors.
In just three weeks, you will work together to hack a solution to a real-world problem.
Watch our HackCamp video to learn more or read about the HackCamp 2024 industry driven projects .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/construction-project-management-clearing:
Explore our Construction Clearing courses today.
Our construction project management Clearing courses are designed to open a range of exciting career opportunities in the property and construction market.
Are you interested in studying construction at one of the UK’s leading centres for built environment education?
Do you want to gain an industry-recognised qualification that will support your career development?
If so, our construction project management courses in Clearing are ideal for you.
From resource distribution to timeframes and budget management, learn more about our construction project management Clearing courses today.
If you choose our construction project management courses through Clearing, you'll benefit from external guest lecturers, field visits, and real-world problem-solving projects.
Our teaching team regularly collaborates with industry partners from the built environment, maintaining strong links with local and international architecture, engineering, and construction sectors.
You’ll also have the chance to network with some of these industry partners, including:
When you study one of our construction project management Clearing courses, you'll experience a modern learning environment with accessible lecture theatres and AV-equipped classrooms, as well as computing suites and multimedia libraries.
You’ll also gain access to industry journals, databases and simulation software – all of which will help you get the most out of your studies.
Our carefully designed studios and study spaces have been created to provide an inspiring environment to develop ideas in.
Our state-of-the-art facilities also include THINKlab - a futuristic research environment used for smart city applications, collaborative engineering, and interactive learning.
Our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management Clearing course is designed to get you industry-ready.
Teaching on this course, is informed by current industry developments, as well as a network of industry contacts and links to exciting local construction projects.
Throughout your course, you’ll have the opportunity to go on site visits, work on live briefs that enhance your real-world knowledge, and gain a practical context for your studies.
You’ll have the chance to participate in an industrial placement between years two and three.
You’ll be responsible for securing your placement and our tutors will support you, monitor your progress and assess your final placement report.
BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management degree student Mitchell Bowden is the latest in a line of Salford students who will be joining Morgan Sindall Construction in a permanent role after successfully completing a placement year:
I’ve really enjoyed the real-life working experience.
The placement has allowed me to put into practice everything that the university has taught me.
Morgan Sindall Construction is heavily involved in lectures at Salford, and as part of one of my modules I gave a presentation to one of the company directors.
When I applied for the placement role, I was lucky enough to be interviewed by the same director on my assessment day.
I was then offered a position to work on the construction site for a new building on campus.”
Dale Sookoo, BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management student said:
“Salford has a reputation for high standards in all construction disciplines.
I enjoyed the programme in its entirety, and I was impressed by the support and encouragement offered by the staff.”
We offer specialised construction project management courses in Clearing, designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to succeed in the construction industry.
Whether you're aiming to manage construction projects or develop expertise in built environment leadership, our focused programmes provide the ideal pathway.
On our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management Clearing degree, you will gain skills to successfully plan, manage, and implement decisions and processes that keep built environments on track.
Construction project managers oversee the entire construction process – from managing timeframes to navigating staff and stakeholder relationships.
By studying our Construction Project Management degree, you’ll be opening yourself up to some of the most exciting global career opportunities in the industry.
Accredited by both the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) , you’ll be educated to the highest industry standards.
Guided by industry-experienced academic staff, you’ll study a range of modules designed to develop your professional, technical, and interpersonal skills set so that you’re ready to hit the ground running as soon as you graduate.
If you're interested in studying construction project management but would benefit from additional preparation, consider our BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management with Foundation Year .
By choosing to study a foundation year, you'll get the opportunity to build your confidence and study skills before progressing onto degree-level study.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/criminology-and-sociology-clearing-courses:
Explore our courses today.
Are you interested in exploring modern sociological issues?
Do you want to tackle controversial problems about crime and justice?
Then explore our criminology and sociology degrees through Clearing today.
Our criminology and sociology Clearing degrees are designed to give you insights into the key criminological and sociological issues in modern day society.
Our courses investigate the tough questions about poverty, immigration, and austerity.
Whether you want to understand social structures, explore methods of improving and shaping human lives, or investigate difficult questions in society, we’re here to help you find your ideal criminology and sociology Clearing degree.
We also offer criminology and sociology degrees with foundation years through Clearing.
These courses will help you gain a thorough understanding of social sciences and build your confidence with university-level study.
Our criminology Clearing courses explore the themes of crime, deviance, justice, law, regulation, and punishment – and the part they play in the construction, maintenance, and disturbance of social norms.
If you secure a criminology degree Clearing place, you will be able to tailor the programme to your interests, with optional modules in a range of topics.
As part of our criminology degrees through Clearing, we maintain strong industry links with professional bodies.
Our connections include Greater Manchester Police, HMP Manchester, HMP Liverpool, Salford Magistrates Court, and Greater Manchester Probation Authority.
These connections provide you with a range of study benefits, including:
We offer a range of criminology courses through Clearing.
Learn more about these programmes below.
On our BSc (Hons) Criminology degree, you’ll focus on the causes of crime and deviant behaviour and how this affects society.
With an emphasis on hands-on learning, you will develop your analytical and critical thinking to explore crime as a social construct and start asking important questions, such as: what are the individual and societal causes of crime?
This course is no longer available through Clearing.
Find out how to apply for 2026 entry.
Our foundation degrees are designed to improve your academic skills and confidence, ensuring you grasp the fundamentals before advancing to degree-level study.
If you're considering our Criminology degree but need extra preparation, our BSc (Hons) Criminology with Foundation Year is tailored for you.
It focuses on key social science topics, preparing you for success on our Criminology degree course.
Gain a thorough grounding in criminology and counselling on our BSc (Hons) Criminology with Counselling course.
These two disciplines are vital to the criminal justice system.
By studying them together, you’ll gain a comprehensive understanding of the causes of crime, how to tend to victims of crime, and how to reduce re-offending.
Criminology studies the process of victimisation, the workings of the criminal justice system, and the techniques for preventing crime.
Counselling addresses some of the causes of offending, investigates restorative justice, and explores how to alleviate stress among those who are caught up in the criminal justice system.
Are you passionate about social change?
Do you want to explore theories on crime, victim care, and perpetrator rehabilitation?
If you want to study this area but need some extra preparation before diving into university-level studies, our BSc (Hons) Criminology with Counselling with Foundation Year course is perfect for you.
This foundation year course will strengthen your academic abilities and establish a solid foundation in the subject before you progress further in your studies.
Interested in the links between social relationships, crime, and justice?
Our BSc (Hons) Criminology and Sociology degree explores the nature of human relationships and how they can be influenced by crime and justice.
You will study historical and contemporary issues from local and global perspectives.
Develop your understanding of key conceptual issues in society, crime, and the criminal justice system.
On our BSc (Hons) Criminology and Sociology with Foundation Year course, you'll start by studying a foundation year, which will give you the grounding you need for university-level study.
Once you complete the foundation year, you'll progress onto our Criminology and Sociology degree course, where you'll study a mix of modules in sociology, criminology, social policy, and social care.
This foundation year route is ideal if you are interested in pursuing a degree, but need extra preparation before starting.
Our sociology courses in Clearing are ideal for inquisitive minds.
In sociology, you have the opportunity to question and challenge conventional assumptions about the world, allowing you to move beyond them.
Our sociology Clearing courses are taught by internationally recognised experts who research a diverse and exciting range of subjects.
These include the legal system, social unrest and riots, the media and popular culture, cities, bodies, and much more.
Here at Salford, we also have close associations with professional bodies to enhance your sociology studies.
These connections include Amnesty International, Salford Youth Offending Team, Working Class Movement Library, Greater Manchester Police, and Peace Brigades International.
Working with these professional bodies during your degree provides you with study benefits such as:
We offer a range of sociology courses through Clearing.
For decades, sociologists have studied human connections.
If you’re interested in tackling difficult issues, such as privacy, social unrest, immigration and sexism, then our BSc (Hons) Sociology course is perfect for you.
On our sociology Clearing course, you'll benefit from our strong links with local government, social care providers, prisons, courts, charities, community development organisations, and youth organisations, as you explore the impact of key historical and contemporary events.
If you have a passion for sociology but need extra support before starting degree-level study, our BSc (Hons) Sociology with Foundation Year will help you bridge the gap.
During your foundation year, you'll get a grounding in key subjects in the social sciences, so that you can continue to successfully study your degree in Sociology.
Former BSc (Hons) Criminology and Sociology student, Siobhan, tells us about her experience on her course:
“I can’t recommend Salford enough if you’re interested in studying a criminology and sociology degree.
The department is very research-active so you’re constantly learning new and exciting things.
The modules are diverse and it’s home to such a supportive and engaging atmosphere.”
Former BSc (Hons) Criminology degree student, Lyndsey, tells us how her career has progressed since graduating:
“Using the qualifications and experience I gained during my time at Salford, I went on to pursue my teaching qualification to work in the criminal justice sector.
My degree gave me the preparation I needed to get a job teaching in various prisons.
It’s been challenging, but highly rewarding.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/engineering-clearing-courses:
Explore our Engineering Clearing courses today.
Our engineering Clearing courses explore engineering design and application, enabling you to embark on rewarding career opportunities.
As a leading regional centre for engineering, we offer accredited programmes with a focus on solving real world problems.
With a wide range of courses to choose from, Salford is a great place to start your journey.
We offer the following engineering Clearing courses:
Our choice of engineering degree Clearing courses allow you to tailor your studies to your interests and career ambitions.
From sound or civil engineering to aerospace or mechanical engineering, we have a variety of pathways to suit you.
Do you have a strong background in science and audio technology?
Are you looking for a degree programme that will enable you to create a better sounding world?
If so, our acoustical and audio engineering Clearing courses are for you.
You'll learn about the physics of sound and the psychology of why we react to it.
With a focus on your career and solving real-world problems, our acoustical and audio engineering Clearing courses will have you exploring the principles of acoustics, analogue electronics, speech, environmental noise measurement, digital signage processing, audio systems, and speaker design.
For more than 60 years, the University of Salford has pioneered acoustics teaching and research, and is recognised by the UK Institute of Acoustics.
Offering a route to Chartered Engineer status, you’ll be taught to the highest industry standards.
Led by research-active practitioners, you’ll complete practical experiments in our acoustic facilities and discover an amazing number of ways that sound and acoustics impact our everyday lives.
Take your place in a non-stop race for innovation.
Our aeronautical engineering Clearing courses are designed to prepare you for a career in aerospace and aviation.
You will develop both an innovative mindset and the practical skills needed to enhance your career prospects across a range of industries and sectors.
This course is accredited by the Royal Aeronautical Society .
Do you have a real passion for developing, advancing, and shaping the future of architectural design?
If the answer is yes, our architectural engineering Clearing courses are the right choice for you.
Architectural engineering provides the perfect opportunity for you to make your mark on the world, at an exciting time when spectacular and sustainable buildings are in high demand.
Our architectural engineering Clearing courses will give you a comprehensive view of building design from day one, providing you with robust knowledge of building structures and the capability to lead a multidisciplinary approach to building design.
Guided by international expert tutors, this course will help you to develop career-essential knowledge and skills.
Through our enviable location close to central Manchester, our strong industry links, and our professional studio environment, you’ll study architecture in an inspiring, engaging way.
What’s more, you’ll be given the opportunity to work on live briefs and attend guest lectures from local architecture and engineering firms, meaning you’ll graduate ready to change our built environment for the better.
Fascinated by infrastructure?
Want to contribute to society in a positive way?
Civil engineering is one of the glues that keeps our villages, towns, cities, roads, canals, and railways held together.
If you have an interest in designing, creating, and connecting the infrastructure of the future, our civil engineering Clearing course is the one for you.
By choosing to take a civil engineering Clearing degree, you’ll gain the skills needed to successfully plan, manage, and implement major engineering projects – while also benefiting from industry-led teaching.
Initially providing a foundation in structures, surveying, and project planning, your studies will progress to cover water resources, geotechnics, and seismic engineering.
With a focus on your future, you will also get the option to participate in an industry placement year, where you can gain additional skills and boost your employability once you graduate.
Want to design the electrical power systems that are needed to meet tomorrow’s energy requirements?
Interested in developing machine-learning algorithms that make robotic devices come to life?
From transport to commerce, electronics are revolutionising every industry, changing the way we live, work, and play.
That’s why there’s never been a more exciting time to pursue a degree through our electrical and electronic engineering Clearing courses.
Our electronic engineering Clearing courses will prepare you for a career in the fast-paced and dynamic electronics sector.
Today, the industry is focused on wireless charging and contactless payments, but tomorrow?
With new trends and inventions emerging all the time, you could be at the forefront of this innovation.
Designed to prepare you for an exciting career, our electrical and electronic engineering Clearing course illustrates how engineering is reshaping our world.
During your studies, you’ll have access to outstanding facilities, including a modern electronics lab, an automotives lab, and a robotics lab.
These facilities are packed with the latest industry-standard equipment.
Across three years, you’ll learn about subjects as varied as green power generation, intelligent automobiles, sustainable energy, and machine learning.
Taught by a team of internationally recognised engineers and researchers, we’ll share our passion for engineering and our industry expertise in robotics and automation research.
From heating systems to refrigerators and cars, mechanical engineering shapes our daily life – yet across the world, mechanical engineers are in short supply.
This, along with recent leaps forward in robotics and automation means there are many exciting opportunities.
With our mechanical engineering Clearing places, we provide you with a path into an exciting and ever-evolving field.
This course is accredited by the Royal Aeronautical Society and designed to prepare you for a career spent designing, commissioning, and maintaining systems of the future.
You’ll also develop the theoretical knowledge and skill sets required to thrive in a range of sectors.
At Salford, you will benefit from small group teaching and a supportive learning environment.
As part of our mechanical engineering Clearing courses, you will also have the option to pursue an industry placement, which will give you the opportunity to demonstrate your theoretical knowledge and creative application – all of which counts towards you becoming a world-class engineer.
Are you a creative person who enjoys using technology to find solutions?
Do you have a passion for music, sound, production, or audio technology?
From engineering studio sessions to creative sound design, our sound engineering and production Clearing courses will allow you to develop your professional knowledge, so you can deliver audio at the highest standard.
With a focus on your career and real-world applications, you’ll explore a range of audio modules on our sound engineering and production Clearing courses.
These courses are designed to equip you with the skills to build a career in the music and audio industries.
Combining audio engineering theory with studio-based delivery, you’ll critically evaluate new audio developments and apply them creatively.
You’ll also get the opportunity to complete an industry placement year as part of your degree, which will help to build your professional network and provide real-world context for your studies.
Megan moved from Northern Ireland to study BEng (Hons) Aeronautical Engineering at the University of Salford, driven by her passion for aircraft and engineering.
During her studies, she gained hands-on experience with industry-standard tools and took part in flight simulations, helping to bring theory to life.
Since graduating, Megan's been aiming to become a pilot or pursue a career in aerodynamics.
Find out why Corin chose to study a Mechanical Engineering degree at the University of Salford.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/english-clearing-courses:
Explore our English Literature, English Language, English and Film and Creative Writing Clearing courses today.
Our range of English Clearing courses will set your creativity alight.
Whether you're a self-proclaimed bookworm, a budding academic, or a novice podcaster, we have an English degree in Clearing for you.
Our English degrees include English literature, English language, English and film, and creative writing.
They are designed to prepare you for your future literary career, with many pathways you can specialise in.
Discover more about our English and creative writing Clearing courses today and explore which one is right for you.
When you study one of our English Clearing courses, you’ll be taught by expert tutors with vast experience.
Our staff are committed and enthusiastic, as well as being published poets, authors, playwrights, and internationally- renowned researchers.
Whatever your career goals, we’re on hand to provide you with expert guidance throughout your studies, and to help you succeed in your chosen direction.
Our English clearing degrees not only build academic excellence but also develop the practical and creative skills sought by employers.
You’ll graduate with confidence, ready to take on exciting roles in publishing, media, education, marketing, and more.
Our English Clearing courses are based at our Peel Park campus, which is just a short walk from central Manchester.
The campus is close to all the cultural benefits the city has to offer, including:
Hear from our students and lecturers about what it’s like to study an English degree at the University of Salford.
Our range of English degree Clearing courses allow you to focus on the subject area that interests you the most.
At the end of your course, you’ll graduate with a portfolio of work and the confidence you’ll need to make an impact from day one of your new career.
If you're interested in all areas of English, you can combine the disciplines of creative writing, drama, English language, and English literature by opting for our English multidiscipline degree.
BA (Hons) English Multidiscipline allows you to combine your interests from a range of modules in English literature, English language, drama, and creative writing.
You will be encouraged to pursue your passion and develop vital skills needed for a range of exciting careers in areas such as teaching, media, publishing, marketing, and administration.
This English multidiscipline course is taught by expert tutors who deliver a diverse curriculum that engages with culture and identity in the 21st century.
Masterclasses with professionals will give you insights into the publishing, theatre, literary, and film industries.
You will also explore the therapeutic power of creative writing, the work of drama in social settings, and the application of language to health and social services.
Whether you’re a practising poet or a blossoming academic, our BA (Hons) English Literature Clearing course will give you the tools you need to take the first step in your literary career.
Over three years, you’ll delve into the world of words, studying literature through diverse theoretical perspectives.
Looking for a course with an interdisciplinary focus?
Studying an English literature Clearing course at Salford means you’ll also have the chance to choose from modules specialising in language, theatre, film adaptation, and creative writing.
95% of students studying BA (Hons) English Literature at the University of Salford were positive about their learning opportunities – University of Salford analysis of 2025 National Student Survey (NSS) results.
Language is a fundamental part of what makes us human, but how often do we stop and think about it?
It’s a crucial tool for us to be able to communicate our understanding of the world around us.
Sound interesting?
If so, our BA (Hons) English Language Clearing degree is the right option for you.
Designed to delve into the varieties and histories of language, this course will give you the training you need to understand how the written and spoken word is structured and acquired.
Analysing a range of perspectives, you’ll also explore how linguistics varies across regions, and how words can help us form identities and influence social change.
Our BA (Hons) English and Film course offers an in-depth exploration of two powerful cultural forms, giving you the chance to study them both separately and in dialogue with one another.
You’ll delve into a broad range of literature, developing sharp analytical and creative thinking skills that will help you interpret texts within their wider historical and societal contexts.
At the same time, you’ll examine the impact of cinema across the globe – from Hollywood and British film to productions from Europe, Asia, Latin America and beyond.
You'll consider film not only as entertainment, but also as a political and cultural force, shaping and reflecting the world around us.
Throughout the course, you'll investigate how stories are told across different mediums, and what they can reveal about the societies that produce them.
Whether you're analysing a novel or critiquing a film, you'll be encouraged to think critically, write creatively, and engage with global perspectives.
As part of our range of English courses, we also offer a multidisciplinary creative writing Clearing course.
Find out more below.
On our BA (Hons) Creative Writing (Multidiscipline) course, you’ll have access to the wide range of creative writing opportunities Manchester has to offer.
You’ll join a thriving community of practising writers, playwrights, and authors, with the chance to flourish in our state-of-the-art campuses in MediaCity and Peel Park – both of which are designed to nurture talent across the city.
Whatever platform or medium you choose to explore, we’ll support you.
By taking on one of our creative writing degree Clearing places, you’ll have access to our TV and radio studios, video and audio facilities, and our excellent live performance spaces.
Our students, staff and industry also regularly perform shows at our on-campus New Adelphi Theatre to public audiences.
Our creative writing programme is ranked 10th in the UK for creative writing in the Guardian University Guide 2025.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/fashion:
Explore our Fashion Clearing courses today.
Are you passionate about creativity and experimental design?
Do you want to work in an exciting, vibrant, and fast-moving industry?
Then discover our fashion Clearing courses.
On our fashion Clearing courses, you won't just be studying theories and concepts – you'll be immersed in hands-on projects that simulate real-world scenarios.
Our degrees are designed to fuel your creativity and equip you with the skills to thrive in this dynamic industry.
You will be able to specialise in the area of fashion that interests you the most.
Whether you dream of becoming a trend-setting designer, a skilled pattern maker, or even a fashion filmmaker, our fashion Clearing courses provide a comprehensive learning experience.
Graduating from our fashion degrees means joining the ranks of our successful alumni who have made their mark in the fashion world.
Employers seek out our graduates for their exceptional originality, versatility, and attention to detail.
If you're ready to embark on a journey of self-expression and exploration within the fashion realm, our Clearing courses are your gateway to a future where your passion becomes your profession.
Located in the heart of Greater Manchester in our £55 million New Adelphi building, you’ll be studying in one of the most vibrant and dynamic centres for UK and global fashion.
You’ll be surrounded by upcoming and well-known brands, designers, and a host of independent and commercial studios.
When you study a fashion course with us, you’ll learn from experienced tutors who will teach you how to use our state-of-the-art facilities.
These include:
The world of fashion is varied, and so are the roles within the industry.
If you're interested in pursuing a degree in fashion, then these are some of the jobs you could pursue:
Our recent graduates have gone on to work for renowned companies including Adidas, John Lewis, Levi’s, Max Mara, New Balance, Puma, River Island, H&M, and many more.
Some graduates have also set up their own businesses using the skills they’ve gained on our fashion design courses.
Our range of fashion Clearing degrees allows you to specialise in the area of fashion that is most aligned with your interests and future career goals.
You will develop concepts and ideas using in-depth research processes and experimentation.
From designing original fashion creations to styling outfits for a variety of platforms – including magazines and Instagram – we have a fashion degree Clearing place to suit you.
As one of the original fashion degrees within this field, our BA (Hons) Fashion Image Making and Styling course is both respected and supported by industry leaders.
By choosing to study this fashion Clearing course, you’ll gain access to our established network of industry partners, providing live projects, collaborative opportunities and the chance to showcase your work.
These include Matty Bovan, Selfridges, The Face, Dazed, and Liam Hodges.
Our image making and styling degree is progressive, creative, and dynamic.
Throughout your studies you’ll gain hands-on experience in creating images, experimenting with styles, and learning new techniques.
All this is geared towards finding a unique identity that will enable you to create contemporary fashion images and showcase your vision.
In your second year, you will have the opportunity to take on an internship in the UK or internationally, collaborating with leading stylists, photographers, and publications.
Our BA (Hons) Fashion Business and Promotion course will enable you to consider the fashion industry in its entirety, while developing a broad range of practical and technical skills required to succeed.
This fashion business degree will introduce you to the importance of sustainability and enable you to define your own role in shaping the future of fashion retail.
You’ll experience live industry projects and work placements, allowing you to network with leaders from across the industry.
In the final year of the course, you will build a portfolio of work to showcase your individual interests and establish your reputation as a fashion business professional.
96% of students studying BA (Hons) Fashion Business and Promotion at the University of Salford were positive about their learning opportunities – University of Salford analysis of 2025 National Student Survey (NSS) results.
Ready to lay the foundations for a career in the fashion world?
If so, our BA (Hons) Fashion Design Clearing degree is for you.
As part of this degree programme, you’ll have the opportunity to go on work experience.
Students have previously gained valuable experience working with leading fashion brands including Alexander McQueen, Vera Wang, Jonathan Saunders, and many more.
Work from your final project will be exhibited at a fashion show in Manchester.
A number of our students will also be selected to take part in the prestigious annual Graduate Fashion Week event in London, where they will exhibit work alongside their peers and competitors.
We have previously shown student work at both London and New York Fashion Weeks.
On this fashion design Clearing course, we provide a range of study visits for you to experience fashion hubs around the world.
Previous trips have included London, Milan, Paris, Antwerp, New York, Tokyo, and China.
You will also get opportunities to collaborate and network with fashion industry professionals through working on live projects and attending industry presentations and networking events.
Previous contributors to our technical and professional development activities have included Max Mara, Levis, and Fred Perry.
Watch our Made in Salford video to learn about our collaboration with luxury retailer Harvey Nichols.
In this collaboration, 30 graduates showcased 150 one-off garments to be displayed and retailed in a specially curated space on the menswear and womenswear fashion floors in Harvey Nichols, Manchester.
Natalie Slater gained a BA in Fashion Design at the University of Salford before landing her dream job as a Junior Designer at John Lewis.
She says:
“My experience at Salford couldn’t have been more rewarding.
I have learned so much and now, three years later, I couldn’t be happier.
I have been around the world learning essential skills to set me up for my future, from interning in New York to fabric sourcing in China.
The course requires dedication and motivation, but you get out what you put in.
From my experience, you definitely reap the rewards of your hard work.” Natalie Slater, Junior Designer at John Lewis.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/geography-clearing-courses:
Explore our Geography Clearing courses today.
Increase your understanding of our rapidly changing planet with a geography Clearing degree.
At the University of Salford, our geography Clearing courses are designed to equip you with the knowledge and practical skills needed to succeed in a range of environment-focused careers.
The modern geographer needs a varied skill set for emerging environment-based roles, which is why our geography degrees in Clearing include a range of carefully designed modules packed with real-world relevance.
Fieldwork is at the heart of your learning, so you can develop applied skills and gain practical experience to reinforce your knowledge.
Field trips are built into specialist modules, giving you valuable hands-on experience – and the best part is, they’re all covered by your tuition fees.
Our geography Clearing degrees also offer opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration, allowing you to explore connections between geography and other fields such as environmental science.
By choosing to study one of our geography Clearing degrees, you will learn about a range of topics, from climate change to urban planning.
You will have the option to tailor your learning to your interests, by taking modules on human geography, physical geography, or a combination of both.
Our academic staff are committed to delivering high-quality, research-informed teaching to ensure the very best learning experience.
This expertise ensures that the knowledge you gain is at the cutting-edge of scientific research and focused on important issues affecting people and the planet.
When you choose a geography Clearing degree at the University of Salford, you’ll gain access to our state-of-the-art teaching laboratory, the Bodmer Laboratory .
This purpose-built facility integrates advanced technologies, keeping our teaching and learning at the forefront of innovation.
In addition, our green labs from the recent Ignition Project (green roofs and living walls), are used in some of your modules.
If you've not yet had a chance to visit our campus, take a look below at a 360 of the Bodmer Lab:
Take a look at our geography degrees in Clearing and find the right course for you:
Our BSc (Hons) Geography Clearing degree is delivered in an engaging and dynamic way.
The course will build your understanding of the processes that shape the environment and how humans respond to an ever-changing world.
This course is accredited by the Royal Geographical Society , which means it meets their requirements for receiving up-to-date knowledge in the right learning, support, and teaching environment.
Here at the University of Salford, we believe fieldwork is imperative to developing your knowledge.
We’ve aligned trips with specialist modules, so you can gain real-world experience.
Typical destinations include Sheffield, Liverpool, and the Peak District.
The cost of your field trips is covered by your tuition fees, so all geography students can enjoy them.
You also have the option to take an industrial placement between years two and three.
You will be responsible for securing your own placement, but your tutors are on hand to help.
By completing a placement year, you can add ‘with professional experience’ to your degree award.
Our BSc (Hons) Geography with Foundation Year is recommended if you want to study the full Geography honours degree, but don’t meet the direct entry requirements.
When you complete the foundation year, you will progress on to the BSc (Hons) Geography degree , where you will build your understanding of the processes that shape the environment and how humans respond to an ever-changing world.
The full geography honours degree is accredited by the Royal Geographic Society .
Studying an accredited course is one way of showing employers you have the knowledge and skills they are looking for in graduates.
It also has the potential benefit of providing greater employability prospects.
This geography course is designed to increase your knowledge and understanding of the social and natural sciences, necessary for understanding contemporary environmental issues.
Fieldwork is a key element of this course, and trips are aligned with specialist modules to develop your skills.
Recent residential field trips have included the Peak District and the Yorkshire Dales in the UK, Denmark, and the European Alps.
Interested in learning how to tackle climate change?
Our BSc (Hons) Environmental Geography with Studies in the USA will provide you with the foresight to respond to and mitigate climatic and environmental changes.
At the heart of this course is the year you will spend with Toledo University in Ohio, USA – our exchange partner for over 30 years.
You will spend the second year of your studies based an hour from Detroit in the friendly city of Toledo.
Alongside gaining new friends and a lifetime of memories, you will be inspired by the Geography and Planning department as you roam the physical and human landscapes of Ohio and surrounding areas.
Other field trips are a big part of your environmental geography degree.
You will get real-world experience of combining the holistic investigative approach of a geographer with the applied skills of an environmental manager.
With climate change impacting precious ecosystems, there has never been a more urgent need to study the environment.
Our BSc (Hons) Environmental Geography with Professional Experience course will give you the skills and knowledge you will need to make a difference.
A unique feature of this course is the industry placement that is embedded into trimesters two and three of your second year.
Although you will be responsible for securing your own placement, you will receive help and guidance from an assigned placement tutor.
They will also monitor your progress and assess your final report.
Placements can be with international, national, or local organisations.
You can work around a wide range of issues: from tackling climate change and sustainability goals, to delivering transport solutions or river restoration management.
Industry placements are an excellent way to enhance your CV, gain hands-on work experience, and build industry connections – ready for when you graduate.
Meet BSc (Hons) Geography student Abigail and find out about her experience at the University of Salford: “When I first applied to university, I’d chosen a music course – but after getting my results, everything changed.
Through the Clearing process, I realised that Geography was the right choice for me.
Growing up I was always outside, camping out in nature, which inspired my interest in land management and the natural processes that occur in particular environments.
I chose the University of Salford was for its great geographical location and surrounding transport network.
The university is located next to the River Irwell and Manchester city centre, as well as only being one or two hours away from places such as the Lake District and Yorkshire.
The team of lecturers is diverse, bringing together a lot of knowledge and experience.
Salford also has a great balance between green space and the city, so you get the best of both worlds, creating a great atmosphere."
Hear from George in this video, as he talks about his time studying geography at the University of Salford.
Find out what he loved about studying with us.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/journalism-clearing:
Explore our Journalism Clearing courses today.
Our journalism Clearing courses are designed to open a range of career opportunities in broadcast, print, and online media.
If you’re looking to pursue a challenging yet exciting career, and have an interest in TV, radio, or online journalism, then we have a Clearing course in journalism for you.
We offer specialist pathways in broadcast journalism, multimedia journalism, sports journalism, and journalism with public relations, so you can choose to focus on the area that interests you most.
When you study journalism with us, you will also have access to one of the country’s leading digital and creative hubs: MediaCity .
Home to more than 100 creative organisations, you’ll study with the BBC and ITV as your neighbours.
Discover your ideal course today by exploring our journalism degree Clearing places and the range of pathways you can follow.
Our journalism Clearing courses are designed and taught by experts with years of experience in the field.
They’ll teach you the subject-specific skills you need to enter the world of work and give you the opportunity to network with contacts from across the industry.
You’ll undertake placements at news organisations and participate in regular news days.
You will also be encouraged to gain experience as part of our student-led broadcast, Quays News, which is supported by guest editors from the BBC and ITV.
Our MediaCity facilities are industry-standard – so much so that they are used by our industry partners themselves.
On our journalism Clearing courses, you will have access to several TV studios and state-of-the-art recording studios, where you’ll learn from expert demonstrators who will teach you how to use these facilities.
Our journalism facilities include:
You’ll have the chance to contribute to the student-led website SalfordNow and to Salford’s student-led broadcast, Quays News , which is supported by guest editors from the BBC and ITV.
BA (Hons) Journalism (Broadcast) student Max quickly discovered how industry-focused the course at Salford really is.
Taught by experienced media professionals, Max developed technical and presenting skills in studios that mirror real newsrooms.
“When I started work experience at the BBC, it felt familiar.
I had already done it at Salford.
From using radio desks to working in a fast-paced newsroom, I felt prepared and confident.”
Many of our journalism graduates go on to have exciting and successful careers, including Pien Meulensteen, who won the One to Watch - On Air award at the 2022 SJA British Sports Journalism Awards.
Since graduating from our BA (Hons) Journalism (Broadcast) course, Pien has gone from strength to strength as a football commentator, working with the likes of BBC Sport, CBS, DAZN and Dutch network Ziggo sports.
Our journalism Clearing pathway choices allow you to specialise in the area of journalism that interests you the most and ensures the best preparation for your future career ambitions.
Are you looking to launch your career as a broadcast journalist and build your professional portfolio?
If so, our BA (Hons) Journalism (Broadcast) course is for you.
Broadcast journalism plays a vital role in society.
It keeps us informed on what’s going on in the world around us in a way that is accessible to everyone, using key platforms to share the latest news.
As part of this broadcast journalism course, you’ll learn how to investigate, record, edit, and produce news for online, radio, and television, with the option to specialise in your preferred subject area as your studies progress.
This course covers both traditional and new media to prepare you for the reality of working as a professional broadcast journalist.
What’s more, our journalism broadcasting course is accredited by the Broadcast Journalism Training Council (BJTC), meaning you’ll gain a first-class understanding of the field from leading experts.
In many ways, stories are what the world is made of.
And in today’s digital age, there are more ways of sharing stories than ever before.
As part of our BA (Hons) Journalism (Multimedia) course, you’ll learn how to find, research and write stories.
You’ll also develop skills in key digital platforms – from mobile to social media and video.
This BJTC-accredited multimedia journalism course is taught by leading experts in the field, providing you with the practical experience you need to be a professional journalist – whether your interests lie in live blogging and reporting, or podcasting and feature writing.
You’ll also learn in a state-of-the-art newsroom equipped with the latest new media technologies, as well as specialist radio and television studio spaces.
100% percent of students studying this course were positive about how it has developed their knowledge and skills for the future - University of Salford analysis of 2025 National Student Survey (NSS) results.
Journalism and public relations are now in a digital age – which is why our BA (Hons) Journalism with Public Relations course has been designed to fuse together both new and traditional practices.
You’ll learn how to research, write, and edit features for online and print platforms, and develop the skills you need to work in the world of PR.
What’s more, you’ll be based in our state-of-the-art campus at MediaCity , with access to cutting-edge facilities and close to global organisations such as the BBC and ITV, as well as smaller independent creative industries and PR agencies.
After you graduate from this journalism course, you’ll be ready to hit the ground running as a professional, armed with an arsenal of multimedia and digital skills – making a real impact from the off.
If you want to turn your love of sport into a career, our BA (Hons) Sports Journalism course is designed to help you make that leap from fan to professional.
You'll be taught by experienced journalists and industry pros, using industry-standard facilities that mirror the demands of the real world.
Based at MediaCity – a hub for major broadcasters like BBC Sport, ITV, and dock10 Studios – you'll be learning right where the action happens, surrounded by some of the country’s biggest names in media and just a stone’s throw from dozens of professional clubs.
From day one, you’ll get hands-on with the tools of the trade, enabling you to produce compelling content across video, audio, online and social platforms.
Whether it’s football, rugby, cricket, athletics or something else entirely, you’ll cover a wide range of sports – broadening your knowledge and career prospects.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/law-clearing-courses:
Explore our Law Clearing courses today.
Our law courses in Clearing combine an intellectually challenging curriculum with an industry focus.
By studying for a law degree at the University of Salford, you’ll get a grounding in key concepts of law, preparing you to embark on a high-level career.
Our modules specialise in areas such as employment law, criminal justice, and legal writing.
Whether you aspire to be a solicitor, a barrister, or a criminal lawyer, we’re here to help you find your ideal Clearing law degree.
Our law courses in Clearing will help you hone your professional skills through practical experience.
This includes opportunities to shadow lawyers and judges, cultivate persuasive arguments in mooting competitions, and develop your client skills in our law clinics.
At the University of Salford, our law courses satisfy the requirements of the legal professional bodies for the award of a law degree.
Extracurricular activities, like mooting (a mock trial) and trips, are organised by our student-led Law Society.
These additional activities will complement your studies and enhance your experience during your time at Salford.
Through initiatives like the SILKS Law Clinics and BASS scheme (in partnership with Salford Citizens Advice), you will have the chance to offer support to people with legal problems in the region, enabling you to apply what you’ve learned in the classroom to real-life situations and provide help for vulnerable people in the community.
LLB (Hons) Law student, Shaun, tells us about the extracurricular law activities available to law students at the University of Salford:
“The pro bono and extracurricular activities that I’ve been able to pursue through my LLB law degree are second to none.
The university has developed training programmes and schemes designed to test students in a real-world setting, while simultaneously providing legal support to those who need it in our society.”
LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology student, Aamenah Chohan, tells us about the extra benefits of studying Law with Criminology at the University of Salford:
“The wide array of networking events on offer have enabled me to meet a variety of different solicitors and even secure work experience with the General Medical Council, which is not usually offered to students.
I’ve also strengthened my interview skills through interviews with the Crown Prosecution Service and other organisations”
Explore our full range of law courses in Clearing:
Our LLB (Hons) Law degree will enable you to prepare for career success.
Our modules are designed for the current and future needs of employers and the legal profession.
You will have the opportunity to shadow working lawyers and judges, develop an understanding of how technology and artificial intelligence is changing the law, and hone your client care skills.
Raring to get started on your journey into the legal sector?
Our LLB (Hons) Law with Placement Year course gives you the option to take a professional placement so you can get hands-on experience in the legal sector.
We will help you make the right connections with high profile employers through regular events and presentations.
If you’re interested in our law degree courses, but need additional preparation, then our LLB (Hons) Law with Foundation Year will help you build your academic and professional skills.
The foundation year will give you a grounding in law, and as the course progresses, you’ll get to choose modules you are most interested in studying.
Interested in exploring crime and justice from a sociological perspective?
Our LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology will lift the lid on some of the most important issues facing society today and help you understand how to face them.
If you’re keen to explore the societal causes and implications of crime, then our LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology with Placement Year is ideal for you.
The curriculum is career-focused and industry-relevant, meaning everything you study will meet the current needs of employers.
Your professional year will allow you to put your academic learning into practice and build industry connections.
Our LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology with Foundation Year will provide you with a fundamental understanding of the key areas of English law.
Once you understand the basic systems of law, sources of law, and legal principles, you will move on to explore other areas of law, including cyber law, family law, and medical law.
If you need additional support with academic skills, this route is ideal for you.
LLB (Hons) Law Student Elizabeth found the right path through Clearing.
After her original university plans changed, Elizabeth joined the University of Salford.
“From the first phone call, the team were so supportive.
It felt like the right place straight away.”
The LLB (Hons) Law course offered Elizabeth valuable practical experience, from mooting competitions to Crown Prosecution Service guest lectures giving her the confidence and clarity to pursue a career as a barrister.
“Salford gave me real opportunities to experience the legal world and the confidence to pursue my career.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/marine-biology-zoology-wildlife-conservation:
Explore our Marine Biology, Zoology and Wildlife Conservation Clearing courses today.
Learn how to tackle issues facing the environment with our zoology, wildlife conservation, and marine biology Clearing courses.
With hands-on learning and residential trips, you will develop the skills necessary to preserve our oceans and wildlife.
If you’re passionate about animals and interested in a career in conserving the environment, then our range of natural science courses in Clearing are ideal for you.
At the University of Salford, we are determined to give you everything you need to excel in your future career.
That’s why our zoology, wildlife conservation, and marine biology courses provide practical training and field trip opportunities, so you can gain real-world experiences and examples to learn from.
These courses are also accredited by the Royal Society of Biology .
Our tutors are experts who research concepts at the forefront of zoological and biological science.
You will gain a theoretical and practical understanding of wildlife, marine life, and environmental problems that threaten species.
Check out our courses in Clearing below.
Do you want to learn more about biodiversity and the challenges our oceans face?
Climate change, over-fishing, and pollution are just some of the issues that are impacting marine life.
If you choose our marine biology Clearing course, then you will gain all the necessary skills and experience to pursue a future career preserving the oceans.
You don’t need to be right next to the sea to study marine biology.
At the University of Salford, you’ll get the best of both worlds.
We’re perfectly placed, with easy access to a range of coastal and marine environments, making it ideal for fieldwork and research opportunities that bring your learning to life.
Our BSc (Hons) Marine Biology course is perfect for those who want to learn more about biodiversity and the processes within the marine environment.
Discover more about the global distribution of wildlife, genes to ecosystems, and freshwater biology.
Our field trips will allow you to apply your learning to real-life situations and experience the depth and scale of the challenges facing marine life.
On this course you will have the option to take an industry placement year between years two and three.
Although you will be responsible for securing your placement, our tutors will support you in finding a role and monitor your progress throughout.
If you want to study the full marine biology honours degree, but need additional preparation before you start, our BSc (Hons) Marine Biology with Foundation Year course will build your scientific knowledge, science methodology, and data handling skills.
You will also gain a better understanding of the marine environment and the organisms that live within it.
If you’re fascinated by animals and their interactions, then our zoology Clearing courses will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the biology of animals.
Discover more about animals, their environment, and the links between them, from molecular to ecological levels.
When you experience our residential trips, you will only pay a modest, non-refundable administration fee, as all other costs are covered by us.
If you have a passion for animals, our BSc (Hons) Zoology Clearing course will take you from the laboratory to the field, studying various aspects of zoological science.
From molecules to microbes, genes to ecosystems, our holistic approach to theoretical and practical teaching will equip you with all the skills you need to apply to real-life situations.
This course also offers the opportunity to take an industry placement year between your second and third year.
While you will arrange your own placement, our academic staff will assist with your search and provide continued support during your placement.
Our BSc (Hons) Zoology with Foundation Year course in Clearing will provide you with a strong foundation in biology and environmental issues and allow you to progress onto our full honours Zoology degree course after you complete your foundation year.
If you need extra help or study guidance, our tutors are on-hand to provide expert assistance as you develop your zoological knowledge.
Biodiversity and precious wildlife habitats are under constant threat from deforestation, illegal wildlife trades and pollution.
Our wildlife conservation degrees in Clearing are designed to focus on core conservation issues so you can develop practical ways to protect the environment.
You will study in our hi-spec Bodmer Laboratories and develop transferable skills in interpreting biological field data.
Ready to immerse yourself in the world of conservation?
Our BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation Clearing course will take you from textbook theory into real-world practice.
You will go on various field trips to wetlands, zoos, and animal parks, both in the UK and internationally.
In the final year of your wildlife conservation degree, you will specialise in an area of your choosing and complete a research project to showcase everything you have learned.
An optional industry placement year is available between years two and three.
You’ll be responsible for securing your placement, but our experienced tutors will help guide you and stay in contact throughout the year to support your development.
Humans are having a devastating impact on biodiversity.
If you want to study conservation, but don’t have the entry requirements for the full honours degree, then our BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation with Foundation Year is ideal for you.
This course will provide you with a broad understanding of wildlife, wildlife ecology, and environmental problems threatening species, and enable you to progress onto the full Wildlife Conservation degree programme.
Accredited by the Royal Society of Biology, our BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation with Zoo Biology Clearing course explores conservation in both the wild and in zoos.
Our expert tutors have close links with local zoos and aquariums, providing you with a wealth of experiences throughout your studies.
You will be taught through a variety of methods including lectures, seminars, tutorials, and laboratory sessions - all of which are designed to build upon your soft skills to prepare you for your future career.
Our BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation with Zoo Biology with Foundation Year course is designed to develop your academic and study skills before you progress onto the full degree route.
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of core biological processes and learn specialist knowledge in areas such as monitoring environmental change and habitat conservation and restoration.
Meet BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation with Zoo Biology student Charlotte, and find out about her experience at the University of Salford: "I wanted to learn new skills to help the environment and wider world during the climate crisis.
It’s my dream to help in the protection of at least one endangered species and, with the course at Salford being the only one of its kind approved by the Royal Society of Biology , I decided to come here.
It’s a fantastic multidisciplinary course which teaches about conservation in the field and in zoos themselves.
The broad range of expertise means that one minute you’re learning about crustaceans in a lab and the next about how local case studies such as Chester Zoo use best practice.
My favourite thing about my course is just how much I learn in a day that I never expect!"
Practical training and field trip opportunities are available on all our marine biology, wildlife conservation, and zoology Clearing courses.
Look at the selection of photos taken on our students' trips below, and learn more about Wildlife Conservation graduate Cris' experience on placement:
"I took the opportunity to take a placement year and travelled round the world gaining experience in a range of fields, including behaviour studies on lynx in Portugal, wildlife rescue and rehab in Canada, a turtle sanctuary in Greece, and ranger work in Malawi."
- Cris - BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/music-clearing-courses:
Explore our Music Clearing courses today.
Looking for a music Clearing degree that has a reputation for producing graduates who currently work in the music industry?
Want to practice in state-of-the-art facilities and be taught by music professionals?
Then discover our range of music Clearing courses.
We’ve designed our music courses to be tailored to you and your specialisms.
Whether you have a passion for performing, or want to explore popular music and recording, our music degrees in Clearing have you covered.
We offer a range of music Clearing courses, allowing you to tailor your studies to your interests and career goals.
From composition and recording to music production and management, we have a music Clearing degree to suit you.
Our music degrees are well known for producing successful recording artists, including:
Our music Clearing courses are also designed to give you the opportunity to network with industry leaders across the city, and we often invite guest speakers to share their experiences.
We’ve previously welcomed the Buffalo Brothers, Tom Leah, Jostine Loubser, and Jason Brown.
Our programmes also have direct links to a range of professional institutions, including BBC Philharmonic, Islington Mill, Manchester International Festival, Halle Orchestra, and the National Youth Brass Band of Great Britain.
When you study a Clearing music course with us, you’ll call the £55 million New Adelphi building home.
It’s where you’ll find state-of-the-art facilities and expert technicians who will help you make the most of your studies.
Our full range of music facilities include:
Explore our available music Clearing courses:
Are you serious about a career in the music industry?
Do you want to develop your technical and creative music skills while working on creative projects?
If you choose to join our BA (Hons) Music: Popular Music and Recording degree through Clearing, you’ll embark upon your personal journey towards professional musicianship, enhancing your performance, composition, and recording skills, while deepening your knowledge of how the industry works.
You’ll receive musical tuition in the instrument of your choice, get to grips with the essentials of studio recording, and expand your experience of performing in both solo and ensemble settings.
What’s more, you’ll also take part in masterclasses led by established professionals, providing you with invaluable insights into what it’s like to work in the music industry.
Our BA (Hons) Popular Music and Recording with Foundation Year provides an extra year to help you develop the skills, knowledge and confidence needed to progress to the BA (Hons) Music: Popular Music and Recording course.
You will study popular music as a discipline from a broad range of perspectives and receive visits from guest speakers, who are leading professionals from the popular music industry.
Do you want a career as an engineer, producer, or composer?
Whatever your professional goals are, our BA (Hons) Music: Creative Music Technology course can help you to achieve them.
Combining your existing musical talent with an in-depth knowledge of music production hardware and software, you’ll spend your time recording and producing music and sound for bands, ensembles, your own compositions, film, radio, and games.
Our state-of-the-art, industry-standard recording studios will be available to you throughout your course.
These facilities are maintained by our amazing technical team, who are always on hand to offer support.
What’s more, you’ll have access to Manchester’s thriving arts and music scene.
Whether you’re part of the crowd, performing in front of one, or mixing the show, there are plenty of creative opportunities for you to get involved in.
Our BA (Hons) Music: Creative Music Technology with Foundation Year course has a foundation year at the start to provide you with an understanding of the subject so you can progress on to the BA (Hons) Music: Creative Music Technology course.
Here at the University of Salford, we have a full specialism in the field of music technology.
You will develop your confidence in core studio skills, while gaining a solid academic understanding of historical developments and aesthetic considerations.
You’ll be trained in the specific discipline of composing, arranging, and producing audio for film, radio, television, and gaming.
Do you want to learn about music management from industry experts?
Interested in sharpening your skills in artistic creativity, project management, digital marketing, and distribution techniques?
If so, our BA (Hons) Music Management and Creative Enterprise course might be the right fit for you.
On this course, you'll explore various managerial roles within the music sector, covering artist management, music publishing, copyright legislation, distribution, and marketing.
You'll also get hands-on experience managing your own public and industry-focused projects, like launching a record label or organizing events in Manchester.
This degree course merges creativity with business, helping you develop practical skills in video production, photography, journalism, and merchandising – all skills that are valued by employers, giving you an edge in the industry.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/nursing-clearing-courses:
Explore our Nursing Clearing courses today.
Discover our accredited nursing Clearing degrees and take the next step towards a rewarding career in healthcare.
Nursing is much more than a job.
You can make a difference in people’s lives by bringing comfort, promoting health, and saving lives.
If you want a future in delivering and leading on safe, effective, and compassionate care for people with a range of health conditions, then our nursing Clearing courses are for you.
At the University of Salford, you can focus on the area of nursing that interests you the most.
We offer degree courses in mental health nursing, adult nursing, and nursing for children and young people.
We also offer a Nursing Associate direct entry route.
No matter which course you choose, you will be part of our large, close-knit community of students.
Read our nursing students’ experiences to learn more about what it’s like to study nursing at Salford, and why students praise the support and sense of community they experience here.
When you study a nursing Clearing degree with us, you will spend 50% of your placement in hospital and community settings, in both the NHS and independent sector.
This can entail working in wards, health centres, detention centres, care homes, or hospitals.
During your placement, you will work in a well-supported environment alongside qualified practice assessors and supervisors.
The facilities on our nursing degree Clearing courses include several clinical rooms to enhance your learning.
From taking blood to giving emergency CPR, you will learn a range of routine and more complicated procedures.
Housed in the Mary Seacole building, our clinical practice wards and simulation suite have been designed to give the look and feel of a real hospital.
The rooms can be used for a range of scenarios, including adult bays, children’s bays, a treatment room, and a midwifery labour room.
The patient simulation lab provides you with opportunities to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment.
The lab contains hi-tech patient simulators that can mimic everything from the common cold to a major heart condition.
Take a video tour of our nursing simulation suites and hear from our nursing students about the benefits of learning in a simulation environment.
All our nursing Clearing degrees are accredited by The Nursing and Midwifery Council .
On successful completion of these courses, you will receive a recognised degree qualification that leads to registration as a qualified nurse with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
When you join the University of Salford, you will be welcomed into a friendly and relaxed environment where you can thrive.
Studying nursing through Clearing will ensure you are ready for your future career.
We will prepare you for the transition from student nurse to qualified nurse, both professionally and autonomously, to manage yourself and others effectively.
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse – Adult) course is designed to equip you for a fulfilling career in adult nursing.
Throughout the course, you'll gain essential skills in providing support, education, and care to adults and their families across various settings, including hospitals and community environments.
With a focus on public health, well-being, and global health, you'll also develop an understanding of the diverse factors influencing health within multicultural societies.
Our teaching methodology uses a blended approach, incorporating seminars, masterclasses, action learning, guided study, simulation, and workshops to facilitate your learning experience.
We put an equal emphasis on theory and practical application, with a balanced split of time between classroom learning and hands-on practice, enabling you to develop and refine the skills necessary for a successful career in adult nursing.
On our BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse – Mental Health) course, you'll gain the expertise to support individuals facing ongoing mental health challenges, preparing you for a rewarding career in mental health nursing.
You'll learn to assist those dealing with substance misuse or behavioural issues and provide support during acute phases of distress.
We'll equip you with the essential knowledge, skills, and professional attitudes necessary to deliver comprehensive care for both mental and physical health.
Theoretical learning will be complemented by hands-on field practice, alongside seminars that facilitate group discussions and actionable feedback.
We are accepting applications through Clearing for the January 2026 intake.
Do you have a strong desire to help some of the most vulnerable people in our society?
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse – Children and Young People ) will teach you how to manage and maximise the health of children and young people in a hospital or in the community.
You will gain the knowledge and skills to deliver professional and compassionate family-centred care.
We will work with you on your development to become an emotionally intelligent nurse who is able to lead and coordinate compassionate, person and family-centred care, while working as an integral member of interdisciplinary teams.
Nursing Associates work with registered nurses to care for patients and service users of different ages and in a range of settings.
They are integral members of the healthcare team – bridging the gap between support workers and registered nurses.
Our FdSc Nursing Associate (Direct Entry Route) degree is designed to train you on how to deliver hands-on care, ensuring patients continue to get the compassionate care they deserve.
This course is a two-year programme leading to a Nursing Associate Foundation Degree.
You will work alongside qualified practice assessors in diverse learning environments, gaining exposure to a wide variety of care-giving settings.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/occupational-therapy-clearing:
Explore our Occupational Therapy Clearing courses today.
Do you want to play a key role in helping people to manage their daily activities and achieve their full potential?
Then our occupational therapy places in Clearing are for you.
You will learn how to take a ‘whole person’ approach to both physical and mental health to ensure people can interact with their environment and take part in everyday tasks safely.
We will prepare you to work with people of all ages, circumstances, and health conditions so you can support others to live the life of their choice.
Discover more about our occupational therapy Clearing degree today.
As an occupational therapy student at the University of Salford, you will get to use our purpose-built rehabilitation flat , which provides the opportunity to learn and practice skills within a secure and realistic environment.
Designed with a functioning kitchen, bedroom, and bathroom, you will experience how to use a range of equipment and daily living aids that an occupational therapist may use to assist a patient to perform an activity.
You will also have access to the occupational therapy resource room where you'll find a variety of equipment designed to aid and support people.
This includes splinting, personal care, memory devices, and much more.
At the University of Salford, we are dedicated to ensuring that you are prepared for your future career.
Learn more about our occupational therapy Clearing courses.
Our BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy course is accredited by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT).
It has been designed to help you understand function and dysfunction in the mind and body.
You’ll work with people from a wide range of backgrounds, ages, cultures, and conditions to help them achieve daily tasks.
This course is taught by experienced lecturers who have worked clinically as occupational therapists in a variety of settings, including internationally.
You will look at the societal and institutional contexts of illness and health, as well as ethical issues in healthcare delivery.
While on your course, you will combine academic study with practice placements that will help you develop professional and personal skills.
Starting in September 2025, our BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy – Extended Route is designed with flexibility in mind, making it ideal for those balancing work, caring responsibilities, or other commitments.
This route follows a three-semester structure across the academic year, with a study schedule of approximately 22.5 hours per week.
In addition to this, you’ll also complete full-time practice education placements – gaining the same clinical experience and qualifications as the standard course.
Fully accredited and delivered by experienced professionals, this flexible route allows you to train for a rewarding career in occupational therapy while maintaining a healthy study-life balance.
Apply now for our occupational therapy clearing courses and take the next step toward a rewarding, patient-focused career.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/physics-clearing-courses:
Explore our Physics Clearing courses today.
Our range of physics Clearing degrees provide you with the practical knowledge to take on the industry.
Physics is at the heart of modern life.
By developing the knowledge to discover future technological advances, qualified physicists are driving our future.
Our physics Clearing degrees equip you with the skills to question how things work and find the answers.
Discover more about our physics degrees available in Clearing today.
Physics underpins our everyday lives – from the structure of the universe to the smartphones in our hands.
Through research, industry, and teaching, our physics degree Clearing courses will position you to discover the next scientific breakthroughs and innovations.
All our physics Clearing degrees are accredited by the Institute of Physics , allowing you to combine theoretical knowledge and creative application to become a world-class physicist.
You will also benefit from small group teaching, which will help you feel supported and able to ask any questions you may have throughout your studies.
Alongside your academic studies, you will be given the opportunity to pursue an industry placement – a great way to expand your knowledge and apply theory to real-life practice.
Professional placements provide many benefits, including enhancing your CV, networking opportunities, improving employment prospects after graduation, and seeing physics in action – all while receiving a salary.
Evidence also suggests that many students who choose an industry placement improve their final degree classification.
Explore our Physics Clearing degrees:
On our BSc (Hons) Physics degree in Clearing you will study a range of modules aimed at developing your skills so that you can become a future first-rate physicist.
Our degree can be over the duration of three years, or four with an optional industry placement.
Throughout your degree, you'll delve into the entire spectrum of physics, exploring advanced topics such as quantum mechanics of atoms, molecules, nuclear and particle physics, and wave optics.
You'll also apply your knowledge by using mathematical and computing techniques to tackle intricate physics problems.
Collaboration lies at the heart of our ethos, and we integrate this as a key learning objective throughout your studies.
Expect to participate in group projects that enhance your confidence and proficiency in teamwork, problem-solving, and communication – all highly sought-after skills for careers in physics.
Interested in one of our physics university courses but need additional preparation?
Our BSc (Hons) Physics with Foundation Year degree in Clearing aims to provide a good understanding of the key subjects in physics to prepare you for study on the associated BSc (Hons) Physics degree.
Elizabeth, a BSc (Hons) Physics student, shares what made Salford stand out – from the welcoming campus atmosphere to the supportive teaching and career-focused opportunities.
“I love it here.
The best piece of advice I had was: If, whilst you’re looking around a university, you start thinking of it as home, it’s the one – and that’s how I felt whilst walking around Salford’s campus.
I really like that the class sizes aren’t huge, and that the lecturers purposefully get to know you as a person, understand your strengths and weaknesses, and are approachable."
The Salford Physics department is very keen to introduce students to industry, providing us with the skills to find employment after graduation.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/podiatry:
Explore our Podiatry Clearing courses today.
Are you eager to make a profound impact on people’s health and well-being in a highly respected industry?
Are you fascinated by the intricacies of foot anatomy and how feet function?
Then a podiatry Clearing course is for you.
You’ll learn in state-of-the-art facilities and study under nationally recognised experts in the field.
Our podiatry Clearing course is hands-on, with a focus on learning by doing.
You’ll begin your clinical practice within six weeks of starting your course and log 1,000 hours of practical experience by the end of your studies.
You’ll also get the opportunity to hone your craft on placements in NHS podiatry clinics as well as longer placements in your final year.
What’s more, you’ll be able to control your career by shaping your studies based on your clinical interests – including optional surgery modules and more.
Our podiatry degree is highly respected and has a proven track record for nurturing the next generation of podiatrists.
Our state-of-the-art podiatry facilities are custom designed for our podiatry course and offer real-world experience in a safe, controlled environment.
When studying a podiatry degree in Clearing with us, you’ll have access to cutting-edge technology, used by professionals in the field.
Our podiatry Clearing course benefits from our incredible facilities and expert staff.
You’ll learn from experts in the field, in state-of-the-art facilities , developing both the practical and theoretical skills needed to support your career development.
Eager to step into podiatry?
If you’re keen to make a genuine difference to people’s health and well-being, apply for our BSc (Hons) Podiatry degree through Clearing today.
As part of the programme, you’ll gain first-hand experience in our state-of-the-art podiatry clinic and Human Performance Lab, where you’ll have access to cutting-edge technology and real-world situations.
Learning from internationally renowned podiatrists, you’ll discover how to assess, diagnose, and treat foot and lower limb disorders.
You’ll also develop the comprehensive diagnostic skills needed to develop patient care pathways for a variety of conditions.
In addition to this, you’ll get to hone your skills on exciting placements at NHS clinics in the northwest and beyond.
Starting with the basics, you’ll study the practical skills needed to treat patients safely and effectively.
As you progress, you’ll also develop essential reflective, problem-solving, and critical-thinking skills.
What’s more, our staff work with pharmaceutical companies specialising in wound care and have links with numerous orthoses laboratories, meaning you’ll benefit from the latest evidence-based practice throughout your studies.
Previous students have taken part in charitable placements to make a real difference to people’s lives.
Our podiatrist students have supported the Urban Village Homeless Clinic and delivered foot care to vulnerable individuals.
Our podiatry degree favours a hands-on approach, and you’ll begin your clinical practice at our in-house clinic within six weeks of starting your studies.
From there, you’ll progress to working one day a week at an NHS clinic and longer placements in your final year, ensuring you’ll develop a broad range of skills.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/politics-history-international-relations:
Explore our Politics, History and International Relations Clearing courses today.
Our Clearing courses in politics, history, and international relations are designed to give you the experience and skills you need to stand out.
If you’re looking to develop your knowledge of contemporary politics and history, or you want to delve into the dynamics of state and organisation, we have a Clearing course tailored to your interests.
Our courses in politics, history, and international relations include:
The range of modules on our courses enable you to direct your studies in line with your specific interests.
Depending on the course you choose the modules you could study include global intelligence, war and conflict, political journalism, and the history of socialism.
When you study a politics, history, or international relations course with us, you will benefit from lectures, seminars, workshops, debates, and individual supervision.
You will also get the opportunity to spend some, or all, of your second year studying abroad in either Europe or the US.
In addition to this, you can also apply for our parliamentary placement programme to boost your CV and professional experience.
Our practical approach, experienced teaching, and supportive environment will ensure you'll excel in your studies and get the skills you need to succeed in your future career.
Discover more about our politics, history, and international relations courses in Clearing, and find the course that’s perfect for you.
Our BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics Clearing course is designed to develop your understanding of key concepts in a structured manner.
You will begin with a foundational background in the history and theories of international relations and politics.
Then, as you progress onto your second and third years, you will choose from a wide variety of modules and get the opportunity to take a professional placement.
Studying our International Relations and Politics course can prepare you for a professional career in a vast range of areas including politics, government, research, teaching, and international security.
Our BA (Hons) Contemporary History and Politics Clearing course will develop your knowledge and understanding of contemporary history and politics.
It will also give you key transferable skills that are vital in a range of careers.
You will study historical events that changed the world between the 18th and 21st centuries and explore the politics surrounding them.
This course also looks at history and politics in a range of contexts to examine international history, intelligence and security, and policy decisions.
Moving into the second year of your degree, you’ll get the opportunity to study abroad for some, or all, of the year.
Whether you're interested in a politics course in Clearing or seeking a broader history Clearing course, this degree develops transferable skills for careers in education, research, public service, and more.
This course is ranked 3rd for Politics in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
Looking for a specialised history clearing course that combines conflict studies with global insight?
Our BA (Hons) Contemporary Military and International History Clearing course explores the conflicts that have shaped society over the past 200 years.
From wars of propaganda to weaponry and intelligence, you will delve into a range of topics that cover the history of contemporary warfare and conflict.
In the second and third years of your course, you will have the chance to study abroad or on one of our industry placements.
Studying contemporary military and international history develops vital skills that are sought after in roles within the police, teaching, armed forces, private security, and more.
If you choose to study this course, you’ll delve into topics as diverse as terrorism and intelligence, with the option to specialise in naval, air, or land warfare.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/psychology-clearing-courses:
Explore our Psychology Clearing courses today.
Discover our range of psychology Clearing degrees, including psychology of sport and psychology and criminology.
Are you a naturally inquisitive person with an interest in human or animal behaviours?
Do you have strong written skills and an aptitude for research?
If so, our psychology Clearing courses are for you.
Whether you want to take the first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist, or you’re looking for a career where you can make a difference to people’s lives, we’re here to help you find your ideal psychology degree in Clearing today.
Our psychology Clearing courses offer a hands-on approach to the study of the mind – from biology to cognition and individual differences.
Psychology graduates are well sought after in many workplaces due to their varied range of skills, including critical thinking, problem-solving and research.
All our psychology degree Clearing courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) .
This means your learning is tailored to meet the high standards of the UK’s leading body for psychology professionals.
By gaining a 2:1 degree classification on one of our BPS accredited courses, you’ll be awarded the Graduate Basis for Registration – the first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist.
As part of all our psychology Clearing courses, you’ll have the opportunity to apply for a sandwich year.
Sandwich years take place between the second and third years of your course and allow you to study abroad or gain professional experience through a work placement.
Sandwich years offer a great way to apply the skills and knowledge you’ve acquired on your studies to a real-world scenario, or enhance your university experience by studying in a different country.
It’s important to note that sandwich years are limited, so placements are not guaranteed.
Our state-of-the-art laboratories provide a comfortable and friendly environment for you to carry out a wide range of psychological testing.
Regardless of which psychology Clearing course you choose, you’ll have access to the expertise of our award-winning technical team, as well as leading research techniques and technology.
Interested in monitoring conscious and unconscious gaze movements?
If so, you can use our eye tracker laboratory to monitor people’s responses to different stimuli, such as websites and television programmes.
We offer a range of accredited psychology Clearing courses, allowing you to tailor your studies to your interests and career ambitions.
From studying the human mind to developing your expertise in the psychology of sport, we have a range of degrees to suit you.
Discover more about these programmes and find your perfect psychology degree in Clearing.
Our BSc (Hons) Psychology course is designed to provide you with opportunities for learning a wide range of psychological concepts.
It offers a hands-on approach to developing research skills and encourages you to apply theory to real-life settings.
You will explore the core areas of psychology and then choose from optional modules, allowing you to delve into the subject areas that you are interested in.
Are you interested in human relationships?
Can you see yourself working with people from all kinds of backgrounds?
If so, our BSc (Hons) Psychology and Counselling course is for you.
This programme is designed to provide you with a thorough grounding in the theory and application of psychology and counselling.
You will be introduced to key concepts in both disciplines, from the exploration of social behaviour to how counselling can be used to benefit psychological health.
Crime is one of the biggest problems facing society today.
To understand the complex issues surrounding it, we have combined two areas of study that have a natural affinity – giving you a degree that will make a real difference.
Our BSc (Hons) Psychology and Criminology course focuses on the study of human behaviour and analyses, crime and deviance, and the role of the media in representing such behaviour.
You’ll be equipped to work in several environments, such as health and social care, criminal justice institutions, and the prison service.
Our BSc (Hons) Psychology of Sport Clearing degree is for you if you're passionate about sport and exercise.
Our course provides an excellent foundation for any student interested in pursuing a career as a psychologist, with a particular focus on sport and exercise.
Are you interested in how world-class athletes train their minds, as well as their bodies?
This course offers you the chance to study in an excellent department equipped with state-of-the-art psychology and sports facilities.
If you’re interested in human and animal behaviour and interactions, then our BSc (Hons) Psychology of Human and Animal Behaviour course is for you.
This course is designed to give you a thorough understanding of the fundamentals of psychology.
You will develop a theoretical and practical understanding of human and animal interaction and how it can benefit human wellbeing.
We also offer a variety of field trip opportunities, including visits to Chester Zoo and Knowsley Safari Park, where you can assess animal behaviour in the real world.
No matter what psychology Clearing course you choose, we’ll ensure you have the skills needed to progress into a career where you can make a difference to people’s lives.
Need additional support?
You can access various types of support to ensure you can write effectively and research thoroughly to achieve your best grade.
Find out what our students have to say about studying our psychology courses.
BSc (Hons) Psychology student Omayma tells us about her experience:
“I decided to study psychology at the University of Salford because of the choice of modules available to students – they all seemed really interesting and relevant.
You can tailor your degree to the topics you love studying and create a pathway that aligns with your future career goals.”
Hear from BSc (Hons) Psychology and Counselling student Karen:
“Studying for my psychology and counselling degree at Salford has been so rewarding because I got so much more than just the fantastic course content.
I had the opportunity to deliver sessions and share my learnings with local school children through Salford Young People’s University, providing me with invaluable experience for my future career.”
BSc (Hons) Psychology and Criminology student Marie talks about her course:
“My decision to study for a criminology and psychology degree developed from a passion to improve the treatment and understanding of mental health sufferers, and I feel studying both subjects provides a wider perspective than one alone can.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/sport-and-exercise-science:
Explore our Sport and Exercise Science Clearing courses today.
Are you interested in applying science to sport, exercise, and health?
Do you want hands-on experience alongside your studies?
Our sport and exercise science Clearing course allows you to explore how evidence-based approaches can enhance performance, improve wellbeing, and support public health initiatives.
You’ll also gain valuable practical skills that prepare you for a wide range of careers.
As you progress through the course, you’ll have the opportunity to tailor your learning with optional, career-focused modules in advanced strength and conditioning, advanced performance analysis, and applied sport and exercise practice.
Learn more about studying our sport and exercise science degree through Clearing at the University of Salford.
Our sport and exercise science Clearing courses will develop your skills in analysing and evaluating the performance of sportspeople at all levels, from the recreational exerciser to the elite athlete.
With modules that cover both traditional and contemporary sport and exercise science disciplines, you’ll learn how to assess the fitness and performance needs of clients to design an appropriate exercise programme.
Whatever pathway you choose, you will learn in state-of-the-art facilities.
Our human performance laboratory is one of the best in the country, containing almost every type of physiological, performance analysis, and biomechanical testing equipment.
Our equipment includes a 30-metre sprint track with inbuilt force platforms, motion capture systems, blood and gas analysis tools, and speed guns.
Our strength and conditioning suite have dedicated PowerLift platforms for students and athletes to learn advanced training techniques, as well as a Biodex isokinetic dynamometer to assess muscle function and asymmetries.
If you choose one of our sport and exercise science Clearing places, you will access the same gait labs and exercise and physiology laboratory (with gas analysis systems, blood analysers, and isokinetic testing conditions) used by our expert researchers at the Centre for Health and Sciences Research.
On our Sport and Exercise Science Clearing courses, we have a variety of pathways that allow you to specialise in your chosen area so you can prepare for a range of careers.
In your first two years, you’ll study core sport and exercise science modules, building a strong foundation across key areas including physiology, sport psychology, and sport nutrition.
In your final year, you’ll have the flexibility to tailor your learning around your career goals by choosing from a range of specialised career-focused modules.
Options like Applied Sport and Exercise Practice, Advanced Strength and Conditioning, and Advanced Performance Analysis are designed to equip you with the practical skills and knowledge needed for a range of careers in sport, health, and performance settings.
On our BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science Clearing degree, you will learn how to assess a client’s fitness and performance to create a personalised exercise programme.
With a strong focus on practical experience, you’ll gain hands-on skills in applied settings such as schools, local sports clubs, and the wider community.
You’ll develop core expertise in areas including exercise physiology, psychology, and nutrition, all essential for careers across sport, health, and fitness sectors.
In your final year, you can tailor your learning through specialist modules enabling you to deepen your knowledge in specific areas while still graduating with a single, recognised BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science degree .
These specialist modules include targeted work placement opportunities and are aligned with professional standards, such as the UK Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA) , to support your career development and potential accreditation after graduation.
If you’re interested in our sport and exercise science degree but need additional preparation, the BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science with Foundation Year will help you build the academic and practical skills needed for university study.
You’ll gain a strong grounding in key scientific principles, and as the course progresses, you’ll begin to explore core areas such as physiology, psychology, and nutrition.
Before landing her dream job as a Strength and Conditioning Coach at Burnley Football Club, Megan Ratcliff gained a BSc in Sport and Exercise Science and an MSc in Strength and Conditioning at the University of Salford.
Here, she talks about her experience and how her studies got her to where she is today.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/surveying:
Explore our Surveying Clearing courses today.
Are you fascinated by buildings and interested in identifying their technical problems?
Do you want to help convert historical buildings and be involved in the design, planning, and construction stages of projects?
Then our surveying courses in Clearing are for you.
We’ve designed our building surveying and quantity surveying courses in Clearing so you can develop an industry perspective on contemporary issues in the field.
Much of your learning will be hands-on, delivered through a blend of academic study and project work, mirroring the multidisciplinary, team-based approaches used in the construction industry.
By choosing to join on one of our building or quantity surveying degree Clearing courses, you’ll experience a modern learning environment enriched with industry-standard computing suites and multimedia libraries, as well as access to databases and simulation software that will enable you to make the most of your studies.
Our experienced staff maintain strong links with the construction industry and a variety of professional bodies across the city and beyond, meaning you’ll benefit from site visits, guest speakers and work placements.
Supported by experienced tutors who are ex-practitioners, you’ll develop your surveying skills by working on live projects with real clients and local surveying practices.
You will work on authentic industry-based projects with a wide range of private and public sector organisations.
This will give you a real taste of professional practice.
Wondering about the potential outcomes of pursuing one of our surveying Clearing courses?
Today, you will find our quantity surveying alumni working with leading construction industry organisations, including: Lend Lease, Kier, Laing O'Rourke, Gardiner & Theobald and Balfour Beatty.
Additionally, our building surveying graduates have secured roles working with a number of regional and national organisations, including: B&Q, Darwen Borough Council, Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, EG Group, JN Bentley, Manchester City Council, National Grid, Network Rail,Property Tectonics and STMC Building Control.
Located at the heart of the largest property and construction market outside of London, Salford is a great place to study quantity surveying.
Our BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying is triple-accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) , the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) and the Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (ICES) , which will help you stand out in the competitive job market.
Our quantity surveying degree is taught by an experienced academic team who draw on their strong links with local organisations to ensure you have a stimulating range of external guest lecturers, placements, and career networking opportunities.
You will also have the option to take an industrial placement year between years two and three of your course.
These industry placements are an excellent way to enhance your CV and apply what you’ve learned to real-world scenarios.
With our BSc (Hons) Building Surveying degree, you can develop a knowledge base and skill set that can lead to exciting global opportunities across many industries.
Triple-accredited by the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) , the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE) and the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) , you will enter a gateway to professional building surveyor status.
During your degree, you will have the option to take an industrial placement between years two and three.
Industry placements are a fantastic way to gain real-world experience and test your skills, as well as network with professionals in the built environment sector.
You could be like Charlotte France, a Salford Building Surveying alumna who graduated less than 10 years ago.
She has achieved a milestone moment in her career that has seen her manage the construction of our new £65 million building in the heart of the main campus.
Read more about Charlotte's story .
Our BSc (Hons) Building Surveying with Foundation Year is designed to help you build a strong foundation in construction, surveying and design techniques, and the essential study skills you'll need to progress and succeed on the full degree.
Our building surveying degrees are accredited by Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) , the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE) and the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) .
Salford is at the heart of the largest property and construction market outside of London.
Drawing on our strong industry links, you will experience site visits, guest speakers and placements.
You’ll get hands-on experience using built environment-focused IT equipment and software.
These experiences and skills will help enhance your CV, ready for a competitive graduate market.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/early-access-club:
Sign up to our Early Access Club to get priority access when you call our Clearing hotline.
Plus, receive advice and tips to help you start your course at Salford this September.
We’ve created the Early Access Club to make Clearing simpler.
No jargon, no stress – just the right info at the right time.
Sign up and you’ll get:
We’ll help you find the right course – and make sure you’re ready when it’s time to make the call.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/clearing/my-clearing-story:
Applying to Salford through Clearing couldn’t be easier, but don’t just take our word for it.
Get inspired and explore our students’ stories below.
Elizabeth, Sara, Rebecca and Lloyd all found their path to Salford through Clearing.
Discover their stories and how Clearing helped shape their future.
After missing out on her firm choices, Elizabeth found her path through Clearing and joined the University of Salford to study for an LLB (Hons) in Law .
From her very first phone call, she felt welcomed and supported throughout the process.
Since then, she has made the most of Salford’s opportunities, including mooting competitions, law fairs and gaining practical career experience.
Elizabeth has grown in confidence, developed her advocacy skills and found the right place to pursue her ambition of becoming a criminal barrister.
Watch Elizabeth’s journey below, or explore more Salford student stories on our YouTube playlist .
Sara began studying Medicine at another university but soon realised it wasn’t the right fit for her and that she needed to be closer to home.
She applied to Salford through Clearing and joined the BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science course, where she found both the academic and staff welcoming and supportive from the start.
Since then, she’s gained hands-on lab experience, completed a Wellcome Trust placement, and received strong academic support.
Sara has grown in confidence and found her passion for research.
Learn more about Sara’s journey and find even more inspiring Salford student stories on our YouTube playlist .
Rebecca decided to change careers and applied to Salford through Clearing.
She left her office job and joined the BSc (Hons) Prosthetics and Orthotics course.
Three years later, she is working as a Graduate Prosthetist with the organisation where she completed her placement.
“I had been looking for something more meaningful.
The course had strong job prospects, hands-on learning and two long placements.
It seemed like the right fit,” she says.
Although it was her first time applying to university, Rebecca found the Clearing process straightforward.
“I was excited about the opportunity and the admissions lead was so helpful and kind.
I was kept well informed and felt really supported throughout.”
Her final placement was a turning point.
“I was working in London, supporting rehabilitation for patients recovering from brain injuries and strokes.
Each day brought a different team and new challenges.
It helped me develop as a clinician and showed me how rewarding this work can be.”
Looking back, Rebecca feels confident in the path she chose.
“Salford gave me the tools I needed to build a new career and the confidence to succeed.”
Lloyd always knew he wanted a career in finance.
In 2020, he applied to the University of Salford through Clearing to study BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance with Professional Experience.
Within ten days of calling the Clearing hotline, he was moving into halls and starting his university journey.
“2020 was a tough time.
The job market had collapsed, and my circumstances had changed.
All my friends were going to university, and I thought I might be missing out.
I applied through Clearing almost on impulse,” he says.
A close friend was already studying at Salford and spoke highly of the experience, which gave Lloyd confidence to apply.
“The process couldn’t have been easier.
I gave my grades and a little information about myself and soon received a provisional offer.”
Since then, Lloyd has completed a year-long placement at Unilever and is now on track to graduate with a first-class degree.
“The support from lecturers and staff has been amazing.
They helped me find the right accommodation, secure part-time work, and prepare strong applications for placements.”
“My confidence has grown, and I’ve gained real independence.
I’ve learned so much about myself and I would definitely recommend Clearing to others.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/undergraduate/undergraduate-events:
We run a range of events throughout the year, giving you plenty of opportunities to learn about the courses we offer and get a taste of student life here.
From large scale Open Days to campus tours and smaller, bespoke applicant support sessions, take a look below to find the event that's right for you.
Open Days are a great way to discover more about studying at Salford, as you'll get the chance to chat with course tutors, learn more about our courses, explore our campus and more.
Book your place now.
Are you an international student?
You can meet us online at our upcoming events for international students .
Learn more today.
Whether it's your first time visiting or you're returning for another look, our campus tours are a great way to explore the campus and get a feel for some of the facilities on offer.
They're also led by our own students, so you'll get a genuine insight into life here.
In the spring each year we hold Offer Holder Days on campus, exclusively for our offer holders, where you'll get chance to be hands-on in your chosen course, with taster lectures, getting to use the facilities and meeting future coursemates.
We email all offer holders invitations to these events, so keep an eye on your inbox if you're made an offer!
Do you want to find out more about our events?
Sign up to receive updates from us.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/undergraduate/open-days:
Choosing the right university is a big decision – and one of the best ways of finding out what's right for you is by going to open days and events.
So come and see for yourself what Salford has to offer at one of our upcoming Open Days.
Our next Open Days will take place on Saturday 4 October and Saturday 8 November.
You can book your place at these events now using the form below.
We will also keep you up to date with insights into university life from our students and all our latest news.
If you would like some further information on what courses we offer, check out our course finder .
By coming to an Open Day you’ll get a real sense of what studying at the University of Salford is like.
You’ll get to take part in course talks, learn more in Q&As with our students, tour our beautiful green campus, and more.
You'll also get to see accommodation, meet teaching and support staff, find out all you need to know about student finance, and learn about settling into student life.
Our Open Days take place across our three campuses in Salford, giving you the chance to explore our facilities in person, while getting a real feel for what student life can offer.
Our Student Recruitment Team will be on hand all day to answer questions about how to apply, and we’re offering sessions to help you understand more about UCAS, writing your personal statement, and give hints and tips about applying.
Our Open Days run from 10:00 to 16:00 and to make the most of the event, we recommend you come for the full day.
Our course talks run twice, so if you want to hear about more than one, a 10:00 arrival is best.
We're proud of our campus and during our Open Days, a team of student ambassadors lead tours throughout the day.
Check out the video below to see what you can expect.
A degree from the University of Salford is more than just a certificate – we’ll help you to graduate with confidence, ready to step into your chosen career.
We form strong partnerships with businesses and organisations from all sectors, working hand-in-hand to develop courses that are relevant to today’s challenges.
Our lecturers are professionals in their fields, with many actively engaging with industry to continuously update their knowledge and inform your teaching.
In today’s competitive job market, it’s important to stand out.
Whether you’re clear on your career path or you’re just starting to explore your options, we’ll help you identify where you want to be, then support and inspire you to get there.
From industry placements to employment opportunities, and guest speakers to practical, hands-on workshops and lectures, we’ll help you develop the skills you need to succeed on your course and in your career.
There are many things that make us unique, but our location is one of the things that really sets us apart.
We're based in the vibrant and diverse city of Salford, in the heart of England’s north west – right next to our neighbour, Manchester.
Our campus, Peel Park, offers the best of both worlds: state-of-the-art learning facilities set against beautiful green space, within twenty minutes’ walk of the centre of Manchester.
Our Frederick Road campus, just ten minutes walk away, is home to our health and social science courses, as well as an impressive range of facilities including a radiography centre, human performance lab and simulation suites.
Our MediaCity campus offers a stunning waterfront location at Salford Quays and is also home to TV, digital and creative organisations like the BBC and ITV.
When lectures finish, you don’t need to look hard to find exciting culture, sport, shopping, food and nightlife experiences right on your doorstep here in Salford.
And when you’re ready to explore Manchester, getting there couldn’t be easier – it’s just a short trip by foot or on public transport, with Salford Crescent station at the heart of our campus.
If you’re not able to attend our Open Day but still want to find out more, we offer a range of ways to meet us – head to our events page to learn more.
If you can’t make it to any of our live events you can also explore Salford through our virtual hub .
We're here to help support you and answer and questions you may have.
Get in touch with our friendly team on enquiries@salford.ac.uk or +44 (0)161 295 4545 .
Alternatively, take a look at the FAQs below.
Anyone interested in our undergraduate degrees is welcome to attend one of our Open Days.
You can book your place at either of these events now using the form at the top of this page.
If you can't make this date, we will also be running an Open Day on Saturday 13 December and you can register your interest now for this event.
Yes, our Open Days are your chance to get more information about all of the undergraduate courses taught on our campus – this includes degree apprenticeship routes and courses that are part of the Greater Manchester Institute of Technology.
Please note, at the Open Day, there won’t be representation from courses delivered at any of our partner institutions.
Of course!
Choosing a university is a big decision, so we’d absolutely encourage anyone who is supporting you to get involved and join you on the Open Day.
Please be aware that we may need to limit the number of additional guests who accompany you to certain sessions on the day.
You can let us know about your access requirements when you book onto our Open Days.
We’ll then work with you to do everything we can to support you.
You will also be able to chat with our disability inclusion service on the day.
If you would like to check our campus for its accessibility, we have worked closely with AccessAble (the leading provider of access information for disabled people in the UK) to produce an assessment of our campus and facilities.
This work has provided detailed information about our access; find out more about their assessment of our campus and facilities .
Find out more about accessibility on campus or contact us on enquiries@salford.ac.uk .
Please contact our disability inclusion service for study related support.
We offer a travel bursary to help with the cost of attending our Open Days.
This is based on how far you’re travelling, and there are five different payment bands.
The minimum amount is £15 for those with a shorter journey.
The maximum contribution is £120 for those travelling from further afield.
Please note that payment is made to the prospective student only, not for each person attending the event.
We know that the cost of living is having widespread impact, and our Open Day travel bursary scheme aims to make a contribution to the cost of your travel, rather than cover your costs entirely.
We will provide more information about how it all works a little closer to the event.
You will need a UK bank account to receive a travel bursary payment.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/student-life/commuting-from-home:
If you choose to join our community of commuter students, we’re well set up with transport links, discounted car parking spaces and on-campus facilities to help you on your way.
Salford Crescent train station is right between our Peel Park and Frederick Road campuses, so you can get the train directly here from places like Bolton, Wigan, Lancashire and the main Manchester train stations.
You might also save money by getting a monthly Greater Manchester Traincard (which lets you travel for free on trams too!) or save 1/3 on train fares with an annual 16-25 Railcard .
There are lots of regular bus routes to our Peel Park and Frederick Road campuses, and if you’re based at MediaCity, there’s a tram stop right outside the campus building.
You can simply tap-and-go using contactless on trams and buses in Greater Manchester - you won't pay more than £2 for a single journey on the bus.
To plan your journey, check out TFGM’s useful guide to getting to the University of Salford on public transport.
If you’re thinking of driving or cycling to the University, we have over 400 spaces for bicycles, on-campus escooter hubs , and over 1,000 car parking spaces across our campuses.
We’ve got discounted parking rates for students on our ParkUs website, and options for annual, monthly or weekly passes .
If public transport takes you to Manchester city centre, it’s super easy and inexpensive to carry on your journey to Salford.
You can get to our Peel Park campus by bike/escooter from Manchester city centre in around 15 minutes, there are regular buses that take about 20 minutes, or it's a 25-30 minute walk straight up Chapel Street.
If you’re based at MediaCity, you can also get one of the many regular buses or trams.
Watch the video below , where commuting student Rachael takes you through your transport options.
Our common rooms in University House and Peel Building (on Peel Park campus) and in Allerton Building (on Frederick Road campus) have been created with commuter students in mind; they feature chill out spaces as well as areas to study, watch TV, and enjoy your lunch with friends.
As well as space to relax, they also have all the extras to help make life easier for you, like kitchen areas with fridges and microwaves, charging points and lockers that you can use between classes.
In addition to our commuter rooms, you'll also find plenty of spaces across campus to chill out, relax, study or socialise.
We have everything from individual study pods to desks for group work, hangout areas which are perfect for when you need to take a well-deserved break or social spaces where you refuel, meet up with friends or wait until your next class.
The University of Salford is committed to delivering an excellent student experience to all our students, and you don’t have to live on campus to immerse yourself in student culture.
University of Salford Students’ Union is here to represent all Salford students and, as a commuter student, our societies, sports teams, and social events are all available to help make your university experience a memorable one!

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/undergraduate/explore-your-subject-area:
Here at Salford we offer a wide range of courses, from Acoustics to Zoology and everything in between.
Whether you want to continue with a subject you loved studying at school or college, or want to pursue something totally different, it's up to you!
Select a subject area below to explore the courses and opportunities we offer in that area.
If you already know which course you’d like to learn more about, go straight to our course search .
If you’d like us to keep in touch and tell you about our Open Days and other news from Salford, fill in our contact form.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/undergraduate/ive-applied-what-happens-next:
The simplest way to monitor the progress of your application is via the UCAS Applicant Hub , which updates your application status as soon as any changes occur.
If you have any questions about your application, there are a number of ways for you to contact UCAS .
You can also speak to our admissions team on applications@salford.ac.uk or +44 (0)161 295 4545 (choose option 2).
There are two types of offer you can receive: an unconditional or a conditional offer.
If you receive an unconditional offer from us and then decide to choose us as your firm choice, the place is yours – you’ll be joining the University of Salford!
If you receive a conditional offer from us and then decide to choose us as your firm choice, the place is yours provided you meet the specific conditions of your offer.
You will be able to see these conditions on the UCAS Applicant Hub .
It’s really important that you satisfy all the conditions of your offer, not just those that relate to your academic grades.
A few examples of the types of conditions you might have to meet include:
If you’re unsure, you can check this with our admissions team by calling +44 (0)161 295 4545 (choose option 2).
It’s really important that each of your conditions are met, so please make sure you read these carefully.
You should reply to your offers through the UCAS Hub .
You do not need to reply to any offers until all of the universities or colleges you applied to have notified you of their decisions.
You can find out more about the different replies you can make, and when you need to do this, on the UCAS website .
If your offer requires you to have an interview, we will send you an email inviting you to register for our Applicant Portal.
Here you will be able to keep track of your application, review information related to your interview and upload any documents that are required by the admissions team.
This is your first choice and if you meet the entry requirements specified in your offer, your place is confirmed.
Please note that there are some courses within the health professions which will require additional conditions to be fulfilled once you have met any academic conditions.
These are things like a DBS and Health check.
You will be given more information about this once you have met your academic conditions.
This is your backup choice, in case you do not meet the entry requirements of your first choice.
It’s a good idea to choose an offer with lower requirements as an insurance choice.
Once you have decided on a firm and insurance choice, you will automatically decline all other offers.
Our Offer Holder Days are taking place between February and April 2026.
These are on-campus events where you can meet your fellow applicants, see how your chosen course is taught, and get a real taste of life as a Salford student.
We start sending out invitations to our Offer Holder days in early 2026, so if you're made an offer to study with us, keep an eye on your emails!
Take a virtual tour of our campus and facilities from the comfort of your own home using our virtual experience platform .
You can also find lots of resources about your course, accommodation and student life at Salford on there.
When you come to university, it’s important to manage your money carefully.
Our student support service, askUS , offers information and advice on all aspects of student finance, whether you’re a current or prospective student.
Your university days can be the most exciting time of your life, but they can also be challenging.
Whatever your personal circumstances, we want to make your Salford experience a positive one, which is why we've created a dedicated, specialist support service, askUS .
askUS can offer you help and advice on a wide range of issues, including wellbeing and counselling, disability support, money and finances, accommodation, faith, carer support and more.
If you have a disability, mental health condition or if you think you might need emotional support while you're at university, it's important that you have support in place before you start.
If you need support, we need to know about it as early as possible, so we can help you whenever you may need it.
If you've been offered a place to study with us, another important decision you'll make is where you're going to live.
If you’d like to live in student accommodation, our partnered accommodation is managed by Campus Living Villages (CLV).
Room bookings open in the spring, and we'll contact all offer holders when this happens.
If you’d prefer to live off-campus or will be commuting from home, we can also support and advise you to ensure you're getting the most out of your time studying with us.
We know that applying to university can be confusing at the best of times, not least because you come up against a whole lot of words and acronyms that might be new to you.
To help you out, we’ve put together a handy Jargon Buster page to help you understand the world of university lingo!
If you're a parent, carer or supporter of a student applying to study with us, you'll likely have a few questions of your own about the application process, as well as any deadlines that need to be met for an application to be considered.
We've put together a handy guide just for you, to keep you up to date with key facts and information about our university and how your son or daughter can apply to start their studies with us.
We also have a monthly Student Supporters' email newsletter, as well as regular online events to have your questions answered by our team.
If you have a question about your application, you can contact us at anytime.
We've also put together a list of frequently asked questions, so check these out first to find out if your question has already been answered by our team.
We're here to help support you and answer any queries you may have.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/salford-alternative-entry-scheme:
At the University of Salford, we believe that everyone has the right to a good education.
If you have been out of education for a while, want to further your career, or simply want to study in a field that you’re passionate about, then the Salford Alternative Entry Scheme (SAES) could be for you.
The scheme allows those who are interested in studying an undergraduate degree, but who may not meet the specific requirements, the chance to study with us.
Perhaps you’re a mature student who has been out of education for some time, but have relevant work experience.
Applicants for the Salford Alternative Entry Scheme are recommended on the basis of their application submitted through UCAS .
If you have been recommended, you will be notified either through UCAS or by our Admissions team.
If you have any questions about your UCAS application, please contact the course enquiries team at enquiries@salford.ac.uk .
APL is used for courses across all schools.
If you are made an offer, you’ll be notified about what you need to do next to proceed with this route.
APL allows us to consider students who may not have the traditional entry criteria, but do have relevant experience or the ability to pursue the course successfully.
Assessment may consider employer references, previous coursework/examinations or a portfolio of your work.
If you have any questions about the APL route, please contact Ruth Potts at r.potts@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate/open-days:
Join us on campus for our next Postgraduate Open Day on Wednesday 26 November, 13:00-18:00.
Register your interest
Whether you’re finishing your undergraduate degree, you've recently graduated, or you're an experienced professional looking to upskill or change direction, studying a postgraduate course at Salford could be your next step forward.
Our Postgraduate Open Days are a great chance to explore our courses , find out about fees, funding and scholarships , discover flexible study options, and get expert advice on how to apply .
At Salford, our postgraduate courses are designed with your career in mind.
Many include placements, internships, or live industry projects, giving you the chance to apply your learning in real-world settings and build up valuable experience along the way.
You'll be taught by academics with real-world know-how and benefit from our close links with industry.
Our cutting-edge facilities are designed to reflect professional environments, so you’ll feel confident and career-ready from day one.
When you visit our Postgraduate Open Day, you’ll get a real sense of what it’s like to study at Salford.
As well as exploring our range of postgraduate courses, you’ll have the chance to chat with academic staff and current postgraduates, and see how our flexible study options could fit around your life.
There’ll be expert advice on fees, funding and scholarships, plus insights into the application process and what we look for in applicants.
You’ll also get to tour our campus and facilities, and ask any questions you have about the support and wellbeing services we offer.
Our Open Day is just one part of Postgraduate Discovery Month – a varied programme of events designed to help you explore your options.
From online advice and guidance sessions to subject-specific Q&As, it’s a great opportunity to explore your options and hear directly from our staff and students.
Yes – booking helps us make sure everything runs smoothly on the day.
Our next open day is on Wednesday 26th November, register your interest here .
Absolutely.
Postgraduate study is a big decision, and we’d love for those supporting you to come along too.
Yes.
Just let us know any access requirements when you book and we’ll do everything we can to help.
You can also attend a drop-in appointment with our disability and wellbeing team at the event.
If you've got a question about postgraduate study or attending our Postgraduate Open Days, we're here to help.
If your question isn't answered in our FAQs above, get in touch with our friendly team on enquiries@salford.ac.uk or call +44 (0)161 295 4545 .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate-taught:
With our range of Postgraduate Taught (PGT) courses you'll develop a wide range of skills and in-depth knowledge of your chosen subject, helping to improve your future potential.
A postgraduate taught degree gives you the opportunity to specialise further in something you’ve already studied at undergraduate level, move up in your career, or alternatively give you the chance to take a different path and pursue a new role.
At Salford we offer a wide range of postgraduate taught degrees, many of which can be studied via distance learning for added flexibility.
Some of our courses also have alternative start dates throughout the year , meaning you’re not just limited to starting your studies in September.
If you are applying as an international student, you can find details of our entry criteria, application deadlines, scholarships and more on our international students page .
Our courses open doors to rewarding and challenging careers in health, science, engineering, the arts, the built environment, media, music, law, and business.
You’ll join a postgraduate community of nearly 5,000 students from 194 countries, and benefit from the research expertise of our academics who are highly respected in their fields.
There are many reasons as to why the University of Salford could be the right choice for you.
We have unbeatable links to industry as we’re located in the heart of Greater Manchester, state-of-the-art facilities and award-winning academics.
What we love most about our University, however, is the community our students and staff have built together, making Salford a warm and welcoming place to live and study!
Want to know what life is like for a student at the University of Salford?
From places to eat, shop and study on campus to things to do in your free time, including sports, clubs and societies for all.
Our unique location in the heart of Greater Manchester, just 2 km from Manchester city centre, means you can explore all that both Salford and Manchester have to offer.
Explore the bars, restaurants, and theatre shows at Salford Quays, or discover the hustle and bustle of Manchester city centre.
Living in student accommodation is a great way to immerse yourself in student life at Salford - our John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts accommodation site is conveniently located close to our campuses and has bills and wifi included in the rent, as well as a free gym, communal areas and study spaces.
If you decide to live off campus there are loads of other options to find a great place to live across Salford and Greater Manchester.
Our three campuses can easily be reached by car, bike, and public transport.
We've got discounted car parking spaces for students, bike and escooter hubs on campus, as well as Salford Crescent train station right between our Peel Park and Frederick Road campuses.
So if you choose to join our large community of commuter students, you’ll find that our central location makes commuting a great option.
However, the application process is slightly different for a number of our courses.
We’ve put together some handy information on how to apply for a postgraduate taught course, the application process, deadlines you need to be aware of and what happens after you apply.
Tuition fees for our postgraduate taught courses vary according to the course and type of study that you choose.
Help with funding is available, depending on your fee status, where you live and the course you study - including bursaries and scholarships.
Did you know that if you’re a University of Salford graduate, your postgraduate tuition fees could be discounted by 20%?
If you'd like more information on what a postgraduate degree from Salford can do for you and what it’s like to study with us, we have a range of events throughout the year.
From Open Days to campus tours to online Q&As, there’s always an opportunity to dig deeper and get your questions answered.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate/events:
We offer many opportunities throughout the year for you to visit us and learn more about our courses.
From large scale open days to smaller bespoke events, find the event that’s right for you.
Want to explore our courses, see our campus and chat to our academics?
Register your interest for our Postgraduate Open Day , which takes place on Wednesday 26 November.
Our Postgraduate Open Day is part of Postgraduate Discovery Month, a series of events designed to help you find the right postgraduate option for you.
With a mix of on-campus and online activities, it’s a great opportunity to explore master’s and doctoral study at the University of Salford.
Can't make it in person?
Take a virtual tour instead.
Explore your course and the facilities available at Salford.
Learn more about accommodation, money matters, life at Salford, and the advice and support you'll receive when you join us.
Keep in touch to get our latest updates.
We’ll send you a copy of our prospectus, as well as insights from our students, and our latest news.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate/postgraduate-faqs:
Not sure what type of study is right for you or where to start?
Have a look at our FAQs below.
If you still have any questions, please get in touch using the live chat or using the details below.
Postgraduate study can be defined in one of two ways; postgraduate taught (PGT), and postgraduate research (PGR).
PGT degrees tend to be more similar to an undergraduate degree in style; you’ll have a timetable with set lectures and seminars, and follow set modules.
PGR degrees give you the opportunity for more independent study, with the chance to focus on more detailed research or projects.
PGT courses include:
PGR courses include:
If you’re interested in academia or research, then a PhD is likely to be required.
However, many people choose to study for a research degree because it gives them something professional alongside their academic achievement.
Certain courses come with certain accreditations that may be necessary for particular professions.
Alternatively, they can be studied as a passion project, giving you the opportunity to research something in more detail than you have at an undergraduate level.
If you're a home student and want to study at postgraduate level, you may be entitled to a government-backed loan of up to £12,858 for a master’s degree or £30,301 for a doctoral degree (for those starting after August 2025).
If you’re an EU student and starting a course on or after 1 August 2021, you must have settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme to be able to receive student finance.
Check eligibility and apply online on the government's student finance website .
Find out more about the costs of studying here and explore the scholarships and financial support available for international students .
Any students self-funding their studies can pay for the tuition fees in full (and receive a 3% discount), or in instalments by setting up a payment plan.
Discounts apply for UK, EU or international students who’ve studied a level 6 (BA (Hons), BSc (Hons), BEng (Hons), LLB (Hons), MChem, MEnv, MPhys or Grad Dip), level 7 (master’s) or level 8 (doctoral) course with us.
Find out more about postgraduate fees and funding options .
This depends on the course that you chose.
Duration can range from one semester for a single module, to up to eight years for a PhD.
Check out the relevant course page for details of the duration of your chosen course.
Of course, we offer a range of single modules, with a particular focus on the area of health care.
Should you wish to continue your studies, this may then count as credit towards your degree.
A common misconception is that you must study the same subject area as a postgraduate student that you did when completing your undergraduate degree.
Whilst you will have a range of options that link to your previous subject, there are also a wide number of degrees you can do, regardless of the subject you studied before.
You can use postgraduate study to apply the skills gained as an undergraduate student in a different way or look to branch out to a different career completely.
At the University of Salford, we offer nearly 50 different master’s programmes that are open to students who have a good honours degree, usually a 2:2 or above, in any subject.
By studying one of these master’s degrees you’ll get the chance to learn from industry experts and gain valuable practical experience.
On some programmes you’ll also get recognised accreditations that can further your career.
Find out more about this option
The application process varies slightly depending on whether you’re applying for a taught or research degree.
We provide full details in our postgraduate taught and postgraduate research sections of our website, which includes information for home, EU and international students.
There’s no set deadline for UK students, but you should apply at least four weeks before the course starts for postgraduate taught degrees and six weeks before the course starts for postgraduate research degrees.
There may of course be instances where we need to close applications earlier if the course is full, so we advise applying as soon as possible.
International students can find a list of application deadlines on our international applications page .
Many of our postgraduate courses also have multiple intakes each year.
For more information, please see our list of alternative start dates by date and school.
Why not attend one of our events, where you can speak to our staff to find out if the course is right for you?
We run Open Days and other events throughout the year, so have a look at what’s coming up next .
Yes, many of our courses offer the opportunity to study via distance learning, or on a part-time basis.
More details are available on our website .
There are loads of ways you can get in touch with us; phone, email, live chat or via our social channels.
Simply visit our contact page and pick the best option for you.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate-research/fees:
Both we and other organisations offer a range of scholarships and discounts to postgraduate research students.
Find out more about the funding you could access on this page.
PhD, MPhil and MSc by Research degrees:
Full-time: £5,006
Part-time: £2,503
Professional doctorate in the School of Health and Society: £3,455 for year one
Higher Doctorate: £1,500
Full-time: TBC
Part-time: TBC
Professional doctorate in the School of Health and Society: £3,540 for year one
PhD degrees:
Split site: £7,467
Online doctorate: £8,740
*The part-time fees will be 50% of the full-time cost for the duration of the course, ie.
6 years of fees.
Split site: £7,646
Online doctorate: £9,100
£500 for the prima facie (you can pay for this via our online shop ).
£5,006 for one year's tuition.
Tuition fee TBC.
Some programmes charge a bench fee in addition to tuition fees.
Bench fees cover additional programme costs like specialist laboratory work, field trips and equipment purchase.
If there is a bench fee applied to your chosen research degree, this will be confirmed during the application process.
Doctoral loans
Government loans are available to help UK students with course fees and living costs while they are studying for a postgraduate doctoral course, such as a PhD.
Find out more on the Government's website .
This scholarship is for University of Salford graduates and will cover tuition fees for the year (UK tuition fees).
There is no bursary.
All research areas are eligible, you can study anything, but please note some research areas, such as laboratory work, come with additional costs that will need to be funded separately.
To apply, you need to be a UK applicant (i.e.
eligible for UK fees) and a University of Salford graduate who is applying to undertake a research degree for the first time .
You must first apply for an get an offer for the MPhil (or MSc by Research) programme, before you will be considered for the scholarship.
In addition, these scholarships are targeted at increasing participation from groups currently underrepresented within research and priority will be given to students that meet one or more of the criteria below:
We are delighted to be offering 10 PhD widening participation scholarships for UK candidates.
For entry in September 2025, the scholarship will cover tuition fees (UK tuition fees), a stipend for 3.5 years of £20,142 and an annual research budget of £1,000 (years 1-3).
Please note: these costs are based on the 2025/26 academic year and may change in future years.
Any UK candidates (or eligible for UK fees) are able to apply, however these scholarships are targeted at increasing participation from groups currently underrepresented within research and priority will be given to students that meet one or more of the below criteria.
Priority will also be given to University of Salford graduates.
How to apply for our scholarships
All candidates who wish to apply for the MPhil or PhD widening participation scholarship will first need to apply for and be accepted onto a research degree programme.
As long as you have submitted your completed application for September/October intake by 31 January and you qualify for UK fees, you will be sent a very short scholarship application.
This form must be returned by 28 February.
Your completed scholarship application form will be considered in conjunction with your research programme application (including your proposal, personal statement, CV, references, and interview outcome).
The first stage will be a school level shortlisting process which will take place in April/May.
Those candidates shortlisted by each school will be invited to meet the central selection panel in late April (PhD applications) and late May (for MPhil/MSc by Research applications) (~20 minutes) about the candidate’s motivation for applying and their aspirations for the programme.
The panel will meet to make final decision the following week.
Postgraduate research application workshop
This online one-hour postgraduate research application workshop is designed for those who are applying for the for the MPhil or PhD widening participation scholarship.
The session is jointly run by the Director of the Doctoral School, who will go through the application process, and the Postgraduate Research Directors from the different schools who will provide insight into what makes a good application and what the common slip up are.
Attendees will also find out about the current scholarships available and where to get addition information and support.
The workshop will end with a Q&A session.
Book your place on Eventbrite now .
Commonwealth scholarships for master’s and PhD study are offered to citizens of developing Commonwealth countries who plan to study in the UK.
These scholarships are funded by the UK Department for International Development (DFID), with the aim of contributing to the UK’s international development aims and wider overseas interests, supporting excellence in UK higher education and sustaining the principles of the Commonwealth.
For more information, please visit the Commonwealth Scholarships website .
We also offer a selection of funded places through our Doctoral Training Partnerships .
These fully-funded programmes often bring together several universities to work towards a common goal and joint research topic.
Students will be active partners in shaping their own training and development as researchers and future leaders.
We're pleased to offer a 20% loyalty discount off the net fee for all University of Salford graduates.
You could be eligible for this discount if you have graduated from a level 6 BA (Hons), BSc (Hons), BEng (Hons), LLB (Hons), MChem, MEnv, MPhys or Grad Dip, level 7 (master’s) or level 8 (doctoral) course at the University of Salford or one of our global partners.
For more information, please contact sa-tuitionfees@salford.ac.uk
You can get a discount of 3% if you pay your tuition fees up-front and in full during (or before) registration.
Alternatively, you can spread the cost of your tuition fees over monthly payments instead.
Find out more about ways to pay your tuition fees as a self-funding student .
If you want to earn some extra cash while you’re studying, you can access a range of suitable roles at our on-campus branch of Unitemps .
When you’re a postgraduate research student, it’s important to find the right balance between work and study, so if you’re thinking of getting a part-time job, speak to your personal tutor to find out how much time you’ll need to dedicate to your studies.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/doctoral-school/case-studies/matthew-wassall-health-and-society:
PhD student Matthew explains why he chose to continue his studies at Salford, and how the support he's received has helped him to progress his research.
I embarked on my academic journey at the University of Birmingham with a degree in mechanical engineering.
Once graduated, I moved into industry working for GKN and Rolls-Royce Aerospace as a development engineer.
Eager to take my career to the next step, I decided to undertake a master's in mechanical engineering part-time at Aston University.
The master's had a large focus on biomechanical engineering, which engaged my interest in the field as well as developed my desire to pursue a research career.
The Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Prosthetics and Orthotics at the University of Salford was the perfect opportunity for me to move fields and get into research.
The University of Salford has some of the best prosthetic and orthotic research in the country, with excellent links to industry and international collaborators.
The CDT in Prosthetics and Orthotics was the perfect opportunity for me as it offered training in the field before the PhD project, which, as I was changing disciplines, was exactly what I was seeking.
Salford, and Greater Manchester as a whole, is also a great place to live, with all the amenities of a city but only a short journey to the Peak and Lake Districts.
All this combined made the University of Salford the perfect place for me to study for my PhD.
The School of Heath and Society and the Centre for Human Movement and Rehabilitation have an amazing research community, with a range of expertise and facilities that ensure you can always find support to help progress your research.
I’ve also had the amazing opportunity to present at international conferences and have been encouraged to apply for funding to further my research after my PhD.
The University of Salford in general is a great place to do a PhD.
There is always training available to develop your skills and the annual SPARC conference is great to practice presenting and learn about all the other research done at the University.
Matthew Wassall
I want to pursue a career in healthcare research which the University and my supervisors have really helped me progress towards.
There have been opportunities to collaborate on different projects at Salford and with external partners.
The University puts on lecturer training courses, and I'm now lecturing on a module.
I’ve also been involved in the organising of a research group as I was asked to be the PGR representative for the research group management committee.
All of these things have been brilliant for me to develop the skills required to have a career in research.
But the networking opportunities, by attending conferences and other external academic events, have been most vital for my career progression and the University has been very supportive and encouraging for me to have these opportunities.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/doctoral-school/case-studies/aishatu-mohammed-lawan-salford-business-school:
PhD student Aishatu Mohammed Lawan discusses how the support and encouragement of her supervisors has been instrumental in shaping her research journey.
My research focuses on Digital Transformation, particularly the socio-technical implications of the 'algorithmic divide' in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
My journey began with a bachelor's degree in Management Information Systems from Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University in Bauchi, Nigeria, in 2012.
Following that, I pursued a master's degree in ICTs for Development from the University of Manchester in 2017.
I am currently a Lecturer at Gombe State University, Nigeria.
My passion for teaching and research led me to pursue a PhD to delve deeper into the digital era's transformative effects on businesses and society.
Choosing to continue my studies at the University of Salford was a natural decision due to the welcoming environment and the presence of a vibrant Nigerian community.
This sense of belonging made the University feel like a second home.
Moreover, my supervisors, Dr.
Mohammed Ali and Dr.
Maria Kutar, have been incredibly supportive and encouraging, which made the decision even more appealing.
Their unwavering support and encouragement have been instrumental in shaping my research journey.
Studying for a research degree at Salford has been a fulfilling experience.
The research community fosters collaboration and diverse perspectives, enhancing the quality of discussions and ideas.
The University's facilities provide ample resources for in-depth research.
What I've enjoyed most is the opportunity to engage with fellow researchers, exchange insights, and learn from each other's experiences.
My research has already begun to contribute positively to my professional life.
It equips me with in-depth knowledge and insights that I can apply in both academia and the real world.
As the digital landscape continues to evolve, my research positions me to contribute to discussions and strategies that bridge the 'algorithmic divide.' This progress is also intertwined with my personal growth, as I expand my horizons and create meaningful connections within the academic and professional spheres.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/doctoral-school/case-studies/ivy-okereke-health-and-society:
Ivy Okereke, a part-time PhD student, explains how her career goals led her to further study, and how she manages to balance her research work whilst having a busy job and three children.
My academic journey commenced at the University of Nigeria, where I pursued a bachelor’s degree in Diagnostic Radiography.
It was here that I first glimpsed the profound impact that medical imaging could have on patient care and healthcare as a whole.
Eager to delve deeper into the realm of medical imaging, I continued my studies at Kingston University, earning a master’s degree in Breast Imaging with the distinction that underscored my commitment to specialisation.
I currently work as a Consultant Radiographer at Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust.
Within this role, I have taken on the pivotal position of Breast Screening Director for the Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells hospital.
This role has granted me the opportunity to make a tangible difference in the lives of countless women.
It was a combination of professional ambition, personal interest, and a commitment to the highest standards of practice that led to my decision to embark on a research degree.
The Society of Radiographers' criteria for a Consultant Practitioner (CP) specify a doctorate-level qualification in a relevant specialist area as a desirable criterion.
At the Symposium Mammographicum conference in 2021 I had the privilege of attending a lecture by Dr.
Claire Mercer from the University of Salford, whose fervour for research and its potential to reshape our field was contagious.
I reached out to Dr.
Mercer to explore the possibility of pursuing a PhD that aligned with my interests and I am proud to say that I am now commencing my third year of doctoral studies at Salford.
My decision to continue my studies at the University of Salford was based on the University's alignment with my academic and personal needs, as well as the expertise of the school in my field of interest.
My initial interactions with my prospective supervisor were exceptionally positive and encouraging.
This gave me confidence that the University was committed to meeting my specific needs, especially regarding part-time study and flexible meeting times.
The flexibility offered by the hybrid format of some of the classes was also crucial for me to be able to effectively balance my studies with other responsibilities.
Furthermore, it was essential for me to work with supervisors who had expertise in breast imaging, and I was confident that the University of Salford had a team with the relevant experience.
The University's administrative staff were impressively responsive and consistently guided me in the right direction whenever I had inquiries or concerns.
Their support made the entire application process straightforward and hassle-free.
My experience thus far has been remarkably positive.
As any researcher will attest, the journey of conducting research is filled with its fair share of ups and downs.
However, I've been fortunate to have incredibly supportive supervisors who have been a constant source of guidance and encouragement.
Balancing the roles of a full-time radiographer, a mother of three, and a researcher is nothing short of a juggling act.
To say my plate is full would be a understatement.
Yet, I've managed to develop effective time management skills that enable me to consistently achieve my goals.
One invaluable resource that has made this balancing act feasible is the accessibility of online training, particularly recorded sessions that allow me to access essential training resources at any time.
This is particularly beneficial for a part-time student like myself.
I vividly recall the training I underwent while preparing my ethical application for the project – those sessions were immensely beneficial, and I genuinely believe I wouldn't have obtained approval without them.
Furthermore, the School of Health and Society offers an abundance of opportunities for personal and academic development, tailored to the needs of postgraduate research students at every stage of their research journey.
This support system has been instrumental in my progress and has reaffirmed my decision to pursue my research at Salford.
Ivy Okereke
Presently, my research focuses on delving into the perspective of the mammography workforce regarding the integration of AI in breast imaging.
The overarching goal of this research is to contribute substantial knowledge in this area, with the ultimate aim of realising positive change in the education curriculum designed for mammographers and associate practitioners.
Furthermore, the successful completion and attainment of a PhD through my research will meet the educational requirements by the Society of Radiographers for a Consultant Practitioner.
This not only aligns with my personal aspirations but also underscores the broader impact that my research can have on professional development and recognition within the field of mammography.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/doctoral-school/creative-coach:
Research students working in STEM subjects can request a creative coach as part of their supervisory team.
Typically working in a creative discipline, the creative coach can advise on impact, public engagement and ways of thinking differently about the research project.
Chiamaka Grace Agwubilo is a final year Biochemistry PhD student in Human and Natural Sciences (HANS) in SEE (School of Science, Engineering and Environment).
Chiamaka has told us about her experience with the Doctoral School and the creative coach scheme.
"I work with Dr Natalie Ferry and her research team focusing on the production of recombinant (proteins made by a microbial host) novel enzymes sourced from understudied environments such as invertebrate guts, as animals such as slugs have a microbial consortia capable of fully digesting tough plant biomass (see our previous publication - Joynson et al, 2017).
The enzymes of interest can breakdown waste plant biomass into sugars which will be of value for bioalcohol (biofuel) production or as feedstocks for chemical conversion to high value molecules useful in green manufacturing.
Thus, this work aims to reduce our dependency on oil and thus promote the green bioeconomy.
A recent collaboration with Dr Zeljka Krpetic involved attachment of these enzymes to nanoparticles for optimised function.
Throughout my research, I have participated in conferences, workshops, symposia and exhibitions across the United Kingdom.
Most recently, a Sci-Art interdisciplinary creative exhibition at the Science and Industry Museum, Manchester with Dr Lawrence George Giles (Arts and Media) as creative coach.
The exhibition was 'The Sun' and the research team explored how energy from the Sun is harvested by plants, providing novel solutions to the energy crisis.
The exhibition saw close to a thousand of visitors in a single evening and as well as the science we offered the public hands on experience with cyanotyping, an opportunity to explore art based on plants and natural processes (original work by Abigail Elliot, an Arts and Media final year undergraduate).
We showcased our collaborative research at Salford with a 3D printed nanoparticle with protein conjugates (Makerspace), light bending solutions of nanoparticles and videos and posters explaining our scientific rationale.
The Sci-Art collaboration has extended my experience beyond my love of solving analytical problems and allowed me to expand into science communication and explore new ways of sharing this exciting research."

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/doctoral-school/wellbeing:
The Doctoral School has a Steering Group, run by and for our postgraduate research community, which helps us to plan our support activities.
With a focus on wellbeing and a healthy work/life balance, the Doctoral School organises social events, days out, craft sessions and networking lunches.
We are particularly proud of our Doctoral School choir, which meets regularly at lunchtimes for a stretch, a deep breath and a laugh.
Being able to sing is not the point, but we think the results sound pretty good.
The Doctoral School believes that all researchers should enjoy a healthy work-life balance.
To support that, we provide regular social activities, as suggested by our PGR community.
This includes a recent Christmas day-trip to local stately home, Lyme Park.
The outing was particularly enjoyable for our international students, who appreciated the experience of a traditional festive season.
Our participants found the experience “very relaxing with an overdose of oxygen”.
“It was fun together with all of you, I look forward to another trip.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate-research/apply:
Please read all of the information on this page before applying for your research degree and make sure you have the following supporting documents to hand:
Find a supervisor by searching our researcher profiles .
If you are applying for a PhD by published works, visit our online shop to make your payment before completing your application.
We have entry points in January, May and September for most research degrees.
If you are a home applicant, please submit your application at least six weeks before your course starts.
If you are applying from outside the UK, please submit your application at least ten weeks before your course starts.
Please see specific deadline dates below for our upcoming entry points:
The research proposal is a crucial part of your application.
You should discuss your proposal with the postgraduate research admissions contact at the school you are applying to in order to make sure you understand what is expected in your subject area.
When preparing your research proposal, please make sure that the specialist area you wish to study is covered by a member of staff here.
To do this, check individual staff entries on the research centre site that relates to your area of study.
You can also contact the relevant research administrator at the school you are applying to.
For more help and information please visit our guidance on writing a research proposal webpage .
We offer a small number of funded places on our Doctoral Training Partnerships, which are highly competitive.
We advise you to carefully check the application criteria, and to contact potential supervisors at the earliest opportunity so that we can support you as fully as possible throughout the selection process.
We also offer a number of scholarships for UK applicants to our Research Master's (MPhil) and PhD programmes which are are targeted at increasing participation from groups currently underrepresented within research.
We’re not just interested in the exams you’ve passed and the certificates you’ve collected.
If you’ve gained enough relevant work experience – whether it’s paid or voluntary – we’ll take that into account through our Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) and Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning (APEL) schemes.
Some postgraduate research programmes charge a bench fee in addition to tuition fees.
If you need to take an English language test and haven't yet done so, please note that the availability of these and the time it takes to receive your certificates can vary depending on the time of year.
For more information visit the IELTS and Pearson English Language Test websites.
For details of other English language tests accepted for the UKVI, visit the Government’s website .
ATAS is run by the UK Government's Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO).
The scheme is aimed primarily at specific postgraduate research areas and is compulsory for international student visa applications on applicable courses.
It is required for new, current and returning international students in specific areas of study.
The ATAS application is made online, before applying for your visa, and is free of charge.
It is your responsibility to check if this scheme applies to you.
The FCO aims to process applications within a minimum of 20 working days.
For further details visit the Government’s website .
When you first enter the online application portal , you will be asked to create an account.
You will then need to verify your email within the profile page before you start.
You can re-enter and complete your application at a time that is convenient to you.
Once you have filled in your application details and uploaded your supporting documents, you will be able to submit your application.
When you submit your application we will email you to acknowledge that we have received it.
You will be notified of the outcome of your application in writing.
If you have any questions about the progress of your application, please email our admissions team on pg-admissions@salford.ac.uk .
We also have dedicated admissions contacts in each of our schools that can help.
See the details below and get in touch.
Our Disability Inclusion Service team support students with a range of needs, including long term health conditions, mental health difficulties, physical disabilities, specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, and neurodivergent conditions such as autism and ADHD.
If you think you might benefit from some extra support during your research degree, we can support you by ensuring that you have fair and equal access to your education, whether this is through academic support or by making reasonable adjustments to your learning.
We’d love to hear from you early on so we can discuss your support needs and get a plan in place ready before you start.
We would encourage you to do this as soon as possible after receiving an offer from us to give you the best chance of getting all of the support that you need in place before you start your course.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprenticeships-for-students:
An apprenticeship offers an alternative route to getting a university qualification that allows you to graduate debt-free and earn a salary as you study.
Kick-start your career by studying an apprenticeship with us.
Our apprenticeship programmes cover a wide range of sectors, from construction, engineering and biomedical science, to healthcare and public services and our offer will continue to grow.
If you are an employer looking to support a staff member through an apprenticeship, please see our information for businesses .
Apprenticeships combine work with study.
You will study part-time as an apprentice and spend the rest of your time in the workplace, applying theory and knowledge from the classroom directly to your place of work on an ongoing basis.
You will also:
*Because apprenticeships are funded by the Government and employers, apprentices are not eligible for student finance.
This includes tuition fee loans and maintenance loans.
We offer undergraduate and postgraduate apprenticeship programmes across a range of subject areas, including engineering, health, and construction.
Browse the list below to find a course to study.
The following programme is currently in development:
For more information about this course, as well as our other apprenticeship programmes, please email the Apprenticeship Services Unit: apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk
Please be aware of the application deadlines below for each of our intakes.
If an application hasn’t been received by this date, consideration will be given for the next available intake.
Humaira is studying Quantity Surveying, Leah is studying Construction Project Management and Jacki is studying Podiatry.
They are also getting on-the-job experience while they study at Mace, Lendlease and Midlands Partnership Foundation Trust.
You can find more case studies on the links below or watch the video of our 2025 Apprenticeship Awards ceremony below to find out how we celebrate our apprentices and partner employers.
Not in Employment
To apply for an apprenticeship, you must first be employed with a company willing to enrol you on the apprenticeship programme.
The government national apprenticeship website has further information on this.
The website also advertises vacancies for apprentices.
Unfortunately, the University does not hold details of employer vacancies.
In Employment
Speak with the apprentice lead in your organisation in the first instance as they will provide the funding and will make initial contact with the Apprenticeship Services Unit.
Your employer will need to confirm that they'll fund and support your enrolment with the University.
If you are currently in employment with a company that is willing to support you through an apprenticeship, then they will need to contact us in the first instance to express their interest in the apprenticeship programme and this will trigger the application process.
For general apprenticeship enquiries email apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk phone: +44 (0)161 295 3063 or complete the contact us form
The Government have recently changed the rules around Maths and English requirements at Level 2.
Although all of our programmes require Maths and English at Level 2 on entry, we advise you to get in touch with us at apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk in the first instance, should you not hold these qualifications.
To find out more about apprenticeships at Salford, contact our Apprenticeship Services Unit by emailing apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk , calling +44 (0)161 295 3063 or filling out the contact us form.
For information on safeguarding and our British values statement, please see below:
Safeguarding Apprentices
British Values Statement
Apprenticeships are funded by your employer and the government, so as an apprentice you do not need to pay tuition fees for your course.
Due to the nature of apprenticeships and how they are funded, you will not be eligible for student finance.
Vacancies for apprenticeship roles are listed on Government’s apprenticeship website .
As well as searching here, we also recommend checking job boards and company websites for vacancies.
Following a recruitment process, which includes interviews, the employer will decide who they want for the position.
Just like our other students, you will need to meet the entry requirements for the course you are studying.
You can find entry requirements for each apprenticeship on our course pages .
You will also need to meet the following criteria:
Find out more about eligibility
We currently cover a wide range of disciplines.
Scroll up to see our current list of courses.
Our offer will grow as the government approves new apprenticeship standards.
Find out more on the Skills England website .
You will spend 80% of your time in your workplace and 20% of your time at university.
We have a range of delivery modes available for courses, including day-release, block delivery and online learning.
The mode of study will depend on the programme you choose.
Apprenticeships will usually take between one and five years to complete.
You will also need to undertake an Apprenticeship Assessment, which must be completed up to 12 months after you’ve graduated.
Yes, you will receive a wage, holiday pay, pension and any other benefits that your employer provides.
You’re entitled to the National Minimum Wage .
You must be paid at least the minimum wage rate for your age if you’re an apprentice aged 19 or over and have completed your first year.
If your circumstances change (redundancy, loss of employer, etc.), meaning your apprenticeship can no longer be funded, you may wish to consider transferring from the apprenticeship programme to the corresponding traditional programme at the university to complete your studies.
If you choose to go down this route, you have to be mindful of several things.
Science, Engineering and Environment - seedegreeApprenticeships@salford.ac.uk
Salford Business School - j.m.kelly@salford.ac.uk
School of Health and Society - j.k.sherlock@salford.ac.uk
Please bear in mind that transferring to a traditional programme at the university is not an automated process, and a significant amount of manual processing is required.
We do understand that in certain circumstances (redundancy) the individual apprentice has not chosen to end their apprenticeship and so we will do everything we can to support you in your transfer.
Please note that for anyone looking to withdraw from your apprenticeship for any other reason, you have signed a commitment statement, and your employer signed a contract with us at the beginning of the programme, which confirms your intention to complete the apprenticeship.
Choosing to withdraw is not a decision to be taken lightly.
We strongly advise you to speak to your employer, link tutor or a member of the apprenticeship team before making any decisions about leaving your employment.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprenticeships-for-business:
An apprenticeship combines academic study at university with on-the-job training in the workplace.
Apprenticeships are a great way to attract and retain talent for your business, boost productivity and up-skill your workforce.
Download our prospectus
Request for services
The Apprenticeship Services Unit at the University of Salford are here to support you throughout your apprenticeship journey.
From admissions and onboarding to ongoing support throughout the apprenticeship, we are here to make the process as smooth as possible.
We can even help you to advertise your vacancies if you are looking to recruit new staff.
We’re a small team but we are all passionate about what we do and committed to ensuring both you, the employer and the apprentice themselves have the best possible experience.
To find out more about our apprenticeship programmes, download our employer guide .
To find out more about working with us, email apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk , call +44 (0)161 295 3063 or fill out the contact us form.
This alternative route to higher level qualifications can be accessed by your current employees or used as a tool to attract new talent to your business.
Hear from Paul Ward, our Director of International and Regional Development about the far-reaching benefits of apprenticeships, the achievements of our apprentices and exciting campus developments.
Focusing on the development of your staff is a great way to acknowledge their work and ensure the skills and knowledge within your workforce are harnessed and nurtured.
Apprenticeships offer a cost-effective way to up-skill your staff whilst they are still working allowing them to apply their theoretical knowledge from university to the workplace on an ongoing basis.
Watch our video to see how we celebrated National Apprenticeship Week 2025 or visit our webpage to learn more.
To find out more about working with us, contact apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk or call +44 (0)161 295 3063 .
Employer Testimonials
Our employer case studies
Apprentice Case Studies
We offer undergraduate and postgraduate degree apprenticeship programmes across a range of subject areas, including Construction, Engineering, Health, Science and Public Services.
Browse the list below for more details.
The following programmes are currently in development:
For more information about these courses, as well as our other apprenticeship programmes, please email the Apprenticeship Services Unit: apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk .
The apprenticeship levy
The apprenticeship levy was introduced in April 2017 and now requires all employers operating in the UK, with a pay bill of over £3 million annually, to invest in apprenticeships.
Once payments have been declared to HMRC, employers will have access to a digital apprenticeship account from which they can access funding to pay for apprenticeship training.
Through the new Digital Apprenticeship Service, employers are able to choose their training providers, select organisations to assess their apprenticeships and post their apprenticeship vacancies.
The Government will top up funding by 10%, meaning that for every £1 that enters the account, employers will have £1.10 to spend on training.
Employers are also able to transfer up to 25% of their levy funds to another employer.
Find out more about Apprenticeship funding
The Education and Skills funding Agency (ESFA) who are responsible for apprenticeship funding have moved to a digital system for non-levy employers by which they will be able to make ‘reservations’ for funding for up to three apprenticeship starts.
The funding will be reserved for three months, after which time this funding will expire and a new reservation will have to be made.
Employers who do not pay the apprenticeship levy will be able to create accounts on the apprenticeship service and begin arranging their own apprenticeships.
If you want to learn more about apprenticeships, take a look through our frequently asked questions.
If you have a question that isn't answered here, please contact us using apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk or +44 (0)161 295 3063 .
Information on safeguarding and our British values statement:
Training costs are covered by levy funds in your digital account.
Non-levy payers can receive 95% towards training costs from the Government via the co-investment model.
Due to the nature of apprenticeships and how they are funded, apprentices will not be eligible for student finance - this includes tuition fee loans and maintenance loans.
As the employer, you are ultimately responsible for posting apprenticeship opportunities and deciding who you want for the position.
We are also on hand to help with recruitment, ensuring you get the best person for the position.
Yes, you will be able to inform the course by working with us on the programme’s design and delivery.
Anyone over the age of 16 can apply for an apprenticeship as long as they meet the relevant entry criteria for the apprenticeship.
We currently offer a range of higher and degree apprenticeships in construction, engineering, science health & society.
Scroll up for more details on the programmes we offer and the courses we're developing.
If you want to find out more about developing your workforce, please contact apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk or +44 (0)161 295 3063 .
Apprentices spend 80% of their time in at work and 20% in university.
We have a range of course delivery modes including day-release, block delivery and online learning.
The mode of study will depend on the programme the apprentice is on.
This is dependent upon the programme, but apprentices typically complete their degree within one to five years.
Apprentices then have up to 12 months after graduation to complete their end-point assessment.
As the employer, you will pay the apprentice’s wage, holiday pay, pension and any other benefits your employees receive.
The funding you receive from the government (or the levy payments you choose to use) can only be used to cover training costs, not wages or any other benefits.
Apprentices must be an employee on the first day of their apprenticeship.
To find out more about working with us, contact apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk or +44 (0)161 295 3063 , or visit the UK Governments further and higher education, skills and vocational training page.
Recent government reforms have removed the mandatory requirement for apprentices aged 19 and over to hold Level 2 (L2) Maths and English qualifications at the Gateway to Completion stage.
However, it is important to clarify that this change does not override the academic and professional standards set by Higher Education Institutions (HEIs).
As a university delivering degree-level apprenticeships, we must consider a broader set of factors beyond the minimum government requirements.
Therefore, while employers play a vital role in apprenticeship recruitment and training, the final decision on entry requirements - including the necessity of L2 Maths and English - rests with the HEI.
This ensures that all apprentices are equipped with the skills needed to succeed in both their academic and workplace learning environments.
For further guidance, contact the Apprenticeship Service Unit at apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk .
Please be advised this is a deadline for a full application to be made.
A request for services form will have to be completed prior to the application form being shared.
These dates allow us sufficient time to draw up and issue the employer evidence pack (contract etc.).
Please also be aware that we will need to receive the completed employer evidence pack back prior to the apprentice starting the programme.
To contact the Apprenticeship Service Unit email apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk , call +44 (0)161 295 3063 or complete the apprenticeship contact us form.
If your organisation is one of our partner employers for apprenticeships, please head over to our employer hub , where you will find up-to-date and relevant information relating to apprenticeships.
Alternatively, if you are ready to formalise your request to work with the University of Salford for your apprenticeship training, please complete our request for services form .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/quantity-surveying-chartered-surveyor-degree-apprenticeship:
Part-time
Five year
As a quantity surveyor, you will manage and control financial aspects of the construction process and may also specialise in construction contract law, insurance and procurement.
You will work on behalf of contracting organisations or representatives of the client, aiming to maximise value and ensure that the project is completed within budget.
Career-focused curriculum
Designed to support your working role, the course explores the processes involved in quantity surveying, and the strategic management techniques used by professionals.
Topics covered include Law and Regulatory Frameworks, Construction Process Management, Risk and Value Management, Sustainable Design and Construction.
Accredited, engaging learning
Providing a pathway to professional status, our Quantity Surveying course will advance your financial, technical and managerial construction related knowledge.
Accredited by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) and the Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors (ICES), you’ll be educated to the highest professional standards.
Incredible study location
We're excited to offer you a campus-based university experience, minutes from buzzing central Manchester.
Our location and industry connections give you great access to one of the UK's largest property and construction markets.
Salford ranks 8th on People & Planet's University League
People & Planet is the largest student network in the UK campaigning for social and environmental justice.
They envision a future in which spiralling inequality, instability, climate crisis and resource depletion are reversed, and a world in which the balance of power in society has fundamentally shifted to an equal world that benefits all of us.
University of Salford scored 71.0% and ranked 8th in the University League, with our highest scores in Managing Carbon, Staff and Student Engagement and Education for Sustainable Development.
You have a passion for developing, advancing and shaping the future of the built environment
You're keen to develop knowledge and technical skills in a recognised profession
You're enthusiastic, a good team player and want to develop professional skills
Delivered over five years, our BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying Degree Apprenticeship course blends theoretical knowledge with applied professional skills and competencies.
During your studies, you will experience academic seminars and tutorials to build your knowledge.
You will also experience project work with other built environment students, mirroring the collaborative approach of modern property and construction industries.
You will build your knowledge over progressive levels of study.
The initial level four is designed to help you build a solid platform of knowledge that will then support your advanced studies at levels five and six.
Course content is delivered in modular 20-credit blocks to reach at total 360-credit BSc award.
Modules are spread across five years of study.
The degree apprenticeship route will enable you to work and study for your degree.
Your employer and/or the government will pay your tuition fees for your apprenticeship course.
There are two distinct components to the degree apprenticeship – the academic degree programme and the work-based assessment.
The University – as lead provider – is responsible for delivering your degree programme.
Your employer is responsible for delivering the work-based assessment components.
We will work with your employer to:
We will create an annual programme timetable, which will include your lectures, seminars and tutorials.
You will receive your timetable once you registered as a student.
As part of this course, you will work towards your Assessment of Professional Competence (APC) in order to be in a position to move onto the RICS Panel Exam following completion of the academic degree course.
To do this, your employer must be able to support you – this is a requirement of the apprenticeship.
Technology 1
You will gain the necessary knowledge and skills to describe, explain, evaluate, compare and apply building construction techniques and materials used in typical low-rise, domestic type buildings, with a focus on contemporary construction techniques.
You will develop a systematic understanding of the sustainable practices involved in building construction.
QS Private and Commercial Practice 1
You will explore the role of the quantity surveyor in the contemporary construction industry.
You will learn to quantify basic domestic building construction work, using industry measurement guidelines and principles.
You will also learn to estimate and prepare bills for domestic building construction, understand the tendering processes and apply ICT to quantity surveying practice.
Introduction to the Role of the Quantity Surveyor
On successful completion of this module, you will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the role of the quantity surveyor and the activities a quantity surveyor would undertake in the pre-construction phase of a project.
The modules progresses understanding of the processes of financial and cost control during the construction phase of a project and involves the area of contract administration during the pre-construction and construction phases of a project.
QS Discipline Project 1
This project is an opportunity to develop investigation skills using case studies.
You will develop an awareness of the key quantity surveying skills used in a real world/problem based scenario.
The module will encourage you to develop self-discipline, personal planning/organisation and reflection, whilst also developing your communication and personal skills.
Intro to Law and Regulatory Frameworks
You will be introduced to English law and relevant statutory requirements for studying for vocational qualifications in the construction and property professions.
The module also introduces you to the workings of the English legal system, to the law relating to contracts and to the regulatory framework affecting the use, management and development of land, in particular, planning, building control and the CDM regulations.
Economics and Management
On successful completion of this module, you will be able to demonstrate knowledge of basic economic concepts and principles of the economic environment in which the construction and property industry operates and knowledge of management theories in the construction context.
You will be able to discuss the key role of the construction industry in the economy, current economic issues and management challenges in the construction and property context.
Construction Process Management
You will develop a critical awareness and understanding of the construction process, at all stages, from inception to delivery.
You will gain a practical understanding of the methods and techniques used in the planning and production stages of a construction project and competence in their application.
This module will enable you to develop a comprehensive understanding of how effective planning and control of resources impacts on the control of a construction project and the supply chain.
You will be able to understand and evaluate the concepts of risk and value and examine and apply techniques for their control and consider and review environmental impact, health & safety and other constraints on the construction process.
Technology 2
You will enhance your knowledge and skills to describe, explain, evaluate, compare and apply building construction techniques and materials used in typical medium to large span single storey buildings and multi-storey industrial/commercial buildings.
You will develop an understanding of both historic and contemporary construction techniques for medium to large buildings.
You will learn to identify and critically review alternative construction technologies, and make informed decisions and recommendations.
Procurement and Administration
This module enables you to explore and differentiate the principal types of procurement systems and associated contracts used in the UK, you will also explore the fundamental procedures related to contract administration.
Construction Economics
You will build a theoretical and practical understanding of how construction costs can be controlled at the pre-contract and post contract stages.
You will also learn how alternative design solution can impact on life cycle costs and the methods used to establish costs.
QS Private and Commercial Practice 2
You will understand advanced measurement and quantification relating to construction work by using measurement guidelines and principles.
Using relevant ICT, you will develop detailed knowledge of estimating and cost management methods for construction projects and understand valuation methods during the construction stages.
Multi-Disciplinary Project
This project is an opportunity to experience collaborative working in multi-disciplinary team.
It will promote reflection on individual and team working and the nature of built environment projects.
You will practice and further develop key skills required by a built environment professional.
You will also develop written/oral communication, team working and inter-personal skills.
Risk and Value Management
You will understand and learn to differentiate the processes, tools and techniques used to evaluate risk and value management of construction and property activities.
The module content will also encourage you to explore and explain how risk and value management techniques can optimise whole life cost solutions for construction and property activities.
Sustainable Design and Construction
You will develop comprehensive recognition of the principles of sustainable design and their application in the practice of construction.
The module content aims to reinforce the relationship between sustainable design and construction processes.
Construction Law and Dispute Resolution
You will expand your knowledge of construction law, raise your commercial awareness and learn to consider risk management from a commercial perspective.
You will explore the nature and causes of disputes between contracting parties and stakeholders in the construction industry, and the mechanisms for dispute avoidance and resolution.
QS Discipline Project 2
You will work in a disciplinary team in the context of a complex refurbishment, design and construction project based environment.
The project will highlight the working skills required by quantity surveyors and the real world/problem based scenario they face.
The experience will help you to develop a personal development plan based on your learning needs, career aspirations or professional requirements.
You will develop a broad knowledge of the principles of civil engineering construction and the measurement capability in accordance with the civil engineering standard method of measurement (CESMM4).
Discipline Research Project
You will develop your knowledge of good research practice through the completion of a written research proposal and a research document.
You will also develop data analysis skills through the collection and critical appraisal of different sources of data.
Diary and log book
Work-based completion of diary and log book over degree duration - three monthly assessments of competence and six monthly counsellor led assessments.
Year one example
Coursework
Written exams
Practical exams
You are taught through a combination of lectures, seminars and tutorials.
Seminars enable you to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller groups.
In addition, you will have timetabled meetings with your personal tutor.
Independent learning
The Degree Apprenticeship Programme is run on a day-release basis.
When not attending lectures, tutorials or other timetabled sessions, you will be expected to continue learning independently through self-study.
We advise you should take around 30 hours of independent study per week.
Typically, this will involve reading journal articles and books, working on individual and group projects, completing research in our library, preparing coursework assignments and presentations, and preparing for examinations.
Assessment
Assessment methods include written examinations and a range of coursework assessments such as essays, reports, portfolios, performance, presentations and your final year major project.
The grades from formal assessments count towards your module mark.
Feedback
To support your development, you will receive feedback on all practice assessments and on formal assessments undertaken by coursework.
Feedback on examination performance is also available upon request from the module leader.
Progress meetings will be held once every three months, where our employer link tutor and your employer supervisor will meet with you to review progress.
The end point assessment is the final assessment for the RICS Assessment of Professional Competence (APC).
Jack Hook
Trainee Quantity Surveyor, Met-Excel
Rising to the challenge of a changing world, our degree courses are designed to shape the next generation of urbanists, scientists, engineers and industry leaders.
Shaped by industry and delivered by supportive programme teams, you can develop the knowledge and skills to become unstoppable in your career.
Our carefully-designed study and seminar spaces provide an inspiring environment to develop ideas, work collaboratively and share best practice.
Your independent learning is supported by a range of excellent facilities, including the library, the learning zone and computer laboratories.
Salford is also home to Energy House – the only fully climate-controlled research facility of its kind in the world.
This full-sized, two-bedroom terraced house lives inside a sensor-packed environmental chamber that can replicate almost any weather conditions.
In addition to our academic entry requirements, we also look for certain characteristics in each student.
Possessing these characteristics will not only help you to fulfil your potential at university, but it is also an essential requisite for a successful career in the built environment.
To apply for a degree apprenticeship, you will need to be currently in full-time employment (minimum 30 hours a week), spending at least 50% of your time in England.
If you are not in employment, you can search for employers participating in the degree apprenticeship scheme using the UK Government's national apprenticeship website .
The programme is delivered on a part-time, day release basis over five year period, subject to agreement by the employer and us.
All of our courses are taught and assessed in English.
If English is not your first language, you must meet our minimum English language entry requirements.
An IELTS score of 6.0 (no element below 5.5) is proof of this, and we also accept a range of equivalent qualifications.
Read more about our English language requirements , including information about pathways that can help you gain entry on to our degree courses.
Please note: The entry criteria below are related to entry onto this course in the 2025/26 academic year.
GCSE
English Language and Mathematics at grade C/level 4 or above or equivalent Functional Skills level 2.
You must fulfil our GCSE entry requirements as well as one of the requirements listed below.
If you do not hold level 2 Maths and/or English, please email the Apprenticeship Services Unit to discuss your options.
UCAS tariff points
104 points
GCE A level
BCC
BTEC National Diploma
National Diploma MMM
BTEC Higher National Diploma
Pass in a related subject for entry to level 5.
Related subjects include Architecture, Construction, Civil Engineering, Building Studies, Estate Management
Foundation Degree
Other Qualification
Degree in cognate subject for level 5 entry
Salford Alternative Entry Scheme (SAES)
We positively welcome applications from students who may not meet the stated entry criteria but who can demonstrate their ability to pursue the course successfully.
Once we receive your application, we'll assess it and recommend it for SAES if you are an eligible candidate.
There are two different routes through the Salford Alternative Entry Scheme and applicants will be directed to the one appropriate for their course.
Assessment will either be through a review of prior learning or through a formal test.
To be considered for the Salford Alternative Entry Scheme you must have already achieved or be working towards GCSE Maths and English Grade C/4 (or equivalent).
Please contact Admissions for further information.
The cost of the full degree apprenticeship programme is £27,000.
The cost of the apprenticeship will be covered by your employer and/or the government.
You will need to cover the cost of any study materials plus travel to and from campus if required.
Apprenticeship Funding
The apprenticeship levy was introduced in April 2017 and requires all employers operating in the UK, with a pay bill of over £3 million each year to invest in apprenticeships.
The funding policy supports the changes to the way apprenticeships in England are paid for, underpinned by the apprenticeship levy of 0.5% of the annual pay bill for companies paying over £3 million per year.
There is also a co-investment model for companies who will not be paying into the levy.
The government will cover 95% of the cost of the apprenticeship and the employer will only have to contribute the remaining 5%.
Once payments have been declared to HMRC, employers will now have access to a digital apprenticeship account from which they will be able to access funding to pay for apprenticeship training.
The maximum amount of money allocated to each standard falls into one of 15 funding bands, ranging from £1,500 to £27,000.
The Chartered Surveyor standard has been allocated the following funding band:
Funding band: 15 Funding band maximum: £27,000
Building surveyors are sought after professionals, and the work of a chartered building...
Prepare for an exciting and rewarding career in real estate and property development with...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/civil-engineering-civil-engineer-degree-apprenticeship:
Civil engineers create, improve and protect the environment and facilitate daily life.
With the demand for qualified engineers increasing, our civil engineering degree apprenticeship will create a pathway to exciting career opportunities.
Designed to support your working role, you will also develop transferable skills and learn about the decision-making methods used by industry.
Designed around real-world problem solving, our accredited BEng pathway builds your knowledge to an advanced level.
Initially providing a foundation in structures, surveying and project planning, you will progress to study water resources, geotechnics and seismic engineering.
The Degree Apprenticeship is the only non full-time mode undergraduate civil engineering degree offered.
It is compliant with the approved apprenticeship standard which includes on-the-job and off-the-job training.
You're fascinated by infrastructure, and want to contribute to society in a positive way
You're a creative problem-solver and enjoy using technology to find solutions
You studied mathematics or physics at school/college and want a career in a practical engineering environment
Based on the principles of civil engineering, this structured course promotes hands-on learning to help you to develop the theoretical knowledge and skills you’ll need in your career.
The course comprises six modules per level of study, which are designed to meet the accreditation requirements of the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM).
Alongside five of these modules, you will complete an integrated design exercise which blends the learning and skills from each module to the application of a client brief.
Every year involves modules which address the JBM themes of design, sustainability, health and safety risk management and creativity.
Some of the principle modules are structures, materials, soil mechanics, surveying, transport design, design and construction management, water resources and environmental engineering.
Every apprentice must complete an individual project at level 6 (final year).
Employers are expected to provide topics, in collaboration with their apprentices, which will be of commercial use and require research and development.
As part of the course, you will work towards an Endpoint Assessment with an Engineering Institution, which will take place after you complete the academic degree.
To do this, your employer must be able to support you - this is a requirement of the Apprenticeship.
Civil Engineering Mathematics 1
An understanding and ability to use mathematics are essential skills for success in engineering.
This module will review and expand on the following subjects: algebra, trigonometry, functions, geometry, vectors, complex numbers and calculus, with emphasis on their applications to engineering.
Civil Engineering Materials and Geology
Civil engineering employs the use of a wide range of materials, in this module you will develop your understanding of those materials and study their fundamental behaviour.
Subjects include construction materials, geology, soil mechanics and laboratory testing.
Structures E1
You will develop an ability to analyses statically determinate structures and design simple structural steel work elements in this module.
The module content is split into analysis and design.
Analysis includes the subjects rigid body statics, material properties and Euler theory.
Design subjects include design of structural steelwork elements in simple construction, and fire and corrosion protection systems for structural steelwork.
Civil Engineering Construction
There are a broad spectrum of elements involved with civil engineering construction.
This module will develop your understanding of those elements from effective engineering construction techniques to contract law.
Subjects include site safety, sustainability, resource efficiency, consulting engineers and contractors, client's requirement and financial planning and control.
Civil Engineering Surveying
You will develop your understanding and ability to undertake a range of civil engineering surveying tasks, such as setting out, land surveying and quantity surveying.
The main subject areas are land surveying techniques, setting out techniques, modern surveying techniques and quantity surveying.
You will cover subjects and learn techniques such as setting up a level, theodolite and total station, construction lasers, GPS, EDM, co-ordinates, bearings and contract pricing.
Civil Engineering Communication
As a successful civil engineer it is important to have a wide range of well developed communications skills allowing you to communicate effectively not only with other engineers but also clients, contractors and labourers.
This module will develop your drawing, written reports and presentation skills.
Soil Mechanics E2
All structures are dependent on the ground they're built on, in this module you will be introduced to the principles of soil mechanics including the general behaviour of different soil types under loading and unloading conditions and how this behaviour may be predicted.
Subjects include geotechnical investigation, soil strength and transient groundwater flow.
Fluid Mechanics E2
You will develop an understanding of civil engineering hydraulics concentrating on flow in pipelines.
The subjects covered include fluid properties, hydrostatics, fluid dynamics, flow in pipes, Reynolds experiments, pipe systems and networks, and water distribution systems.
Civil Engineering Mathematics 2
This module will build on the engineering mathematics module in year one and develop more advanced knowledge and skills in mathematical analysis, to enable you to tackle more advanced engineering problems.
Subjects covered include partial differentiation, determinants and matrices, vector analysis, Laplace transforms and functions of a complex variable.
Structures E2
The module builds on your structural analysis knowledge from year 1 and develops it to consider simple statically determinate structures.
On the design side Reinforced concrete structures are considered in detail.
The design of slabs, beams, columns and foundations are looked at.
Overall stability of RC structures is also described.
Highway design and analysis
Our highways are crucial to our lives, whether that be economic or recreational.
In this module you will learn the principles which underlie current UK practice in highway design and construction and analysis, including the application of statistical techniques to transport engineering problems.
Design and Construction Management
Project planning and execution are a vital part of the role of a civil engineer.
In this module you practice these skills, culminating in a residential field course which will see you working in a team to construct structures from bridges to oil rigs.
Geotechnical Engineering E3
You will learn to develop approaches to the design and analysis of soil slopes and foundations.
The subjects include stability of embankments, stability of earth dams, stability of shallow foundations on fine and coarse grained soils, design based on in situ tests and stability of deep foundations in fine and coarse grained soils.
Structures E3
The module will introduce hand methods for the calculation of the elastic and plastic behaviour of frameworks, through moment distribution, stiffness methods and virtual work.
Computer software will be used in tandem to numerically model structures, with an emphasis on validation.
This will lead onto design to Eurocodes for more advanced topics in steel and reinforced concrete.
Water Resources E3
You will develop your understanding of sediment transport, wave theory, pressure transients in closed systems and hydrological science.
The subjects covered include surface water hydrology, open channel flow, steady non-uniform flow, hydraulic structures, water waves, and hydraulic models.
Individual Project
One of the most important parts of your preparation for your future career, whether in industry or research, is the undertaking of an individual project.
Projects are based on particular civil engineering themes of industrial relevance.
Case Studies in Environmental Engineering
You will develop the ability to identify and deal with environmental issues relating to civil engineering, through a series of case studies.
The subjects include environmental risks associated with ground engineering and water resources, transport and the environment, landscape, heritage, and biodiversity impacts, and engineering solutions.
Professional Applications of Civil Engineering
This module brings together all the discipline-specific civil engineering learning undertaken at previous levels of study and frames the prior learning within the context of a computer-based technical project.
To reinforce the link to industry, the learning at prior levels is also contextualised by providing a portfolio of evidential details of a real-life project through your own work experiences.
The assessments are aligned with the Institution of Civil Engineers criteria for Incorporated Engineer status making the module further align with the End Point Assessment for the civil engineering degree apprenticeship.
During your studies, you will use industry-standard software, including CoStar, EGI, Argus Enterprise and Developer, BCIS and ISurv.
You will have access to computer laboratory facilities throughout your studies.
Driven by industry, and delivered by supportive programme teams, you can develop the knowledge and skills to become unstoppable in your career.
As a civil engineering student, you will learn in a range of specialist teaching and research facilities.
The Heavy Structures Laboratory features a range of equipment which can be used to load test almost any structure; including hydraulic actuators, a strong floor, tensile and compression testing machines and a climactic cabinet.
The Hydraulics Laboratory will develop your understanding of how water flows and behaves at different velocities.
In our Water Quality Laboratory, you can investigate the ability of different plants and filters to remove groundwater contaminants.
In the Geotechnics Laboratory , you can learn about soil types, their strengths, permeability and compressibility and how these things can affect the ground conditions under building foundations, dams and embankments.
You will also learn to use a range of surveying equipment and tools, such as digital total stations, levels and theodolites, which combined with digital drawing capability will arm you with industry standard skills.
The degree apprenticeship is the only non-full-time mode undergraduate civil engineering degree at Salford.
It is in alignment with apprenticeship standard ST0417, which includes on the job and off the job training.
By the end of the apprenticeship, you will have achieved both an academic (BEng (Hons)) and professional (IEng) qualification.
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council as:
1.
fully satisfying the educational base for an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
2.
partially satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
A programme of accredited Further Learning will be required to complete the educational base for CEng.
Visit JBM for further information and details of Further Learning programmes for CEng.
The course is delivered on a part-time, day-release basis over a five year period, subject to agreement by the employer and us.
English Language and Mathematics at grade C/level 4 or above (or equivalent).
104 - 112 points
104 - 112 points including mathematics at grade C.
(Numerate science at grade C).
A Pass in the practical element of science A levels must be achieved.
MMD, must include Distinction in maths modules.
Scottish Highers
Irish Leaving Certificate
(Highers) 104 - 112 points
International Baccalaureate
30 points including grade 5 in numerate science and maths.
Higher level EB (pass in diploma 60%) to include engineering or science
Salford Alternative Entry System (SAES)
We welcome applications from students who may not meet the stated entry criteria but who can demonstrate their ability to pursue the course successfully.
Once we have received your application we will assess it and recommend it for SAES if you are an eligible candidate.
Not in employment
In order to apply for an apprenticeship, you must first be in employment with a company who is willing to enrol you onto the apprenticeship programme.
The government national apprenticeship website has further information on this subject: https://www.findapprenticeship.service.gov.uk/apprenticeshipsearch
The website also advertises vacancies for degree apprentices.
Unfortunately the University does not hold details of employers vacancies.
In employment
Your employer will need to confirm that they'll fund and support your enrolment with the university.
If you are currently in employment with a company who is willing to support you through an apprenticeship, then they will need to contact us in the first instance to express their interest in the apprenticeship programme and this will trigger the application process.
Learn how to create, improve and protect the infrastructure that shapes our daily life...
Build advanced knowledge about how you can develop and enhance vital infrastructure with...
Successful architectural design is the sweet spot within science, creativity and...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/construction-project-management-construction-site-manager-degree-apprenticeship:
Three year
As a Construction Project Manager, you will manage the client's project from inception to completion.
You will control the construction process, balance time, quality and resources to bring new developments to life.
You will gain the skills to successfully plan, manage and implement decisions and processes that keep built environment projects on track.
You will work on behalf of contracting organisations or representatives of the client, aiming to deliver a high quality project to realise the client's expectations.
Designed to support your working role, the course explores the processes involved in Construction and Project Management, and the strategic management techniques used by professionals.
Topics covered include Construction Process Management, Lean and Offsite Production Management, Construction Law & Dispute Resolution and Sustainable Design and Construction.
Accredited by both the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), you will be educated to the highest industry standards.
Guided by expert and industry experienced staff, you will study a range of modules, designed to develop your professional, technical and interpersonal skill set so you are ready to build a rewarding career in the Built Environment.
We're excited to offer you a campus-based university experience, minutes from buzzing central Manchester.
Our location and industry connections give you great access to one of the UK's largest property and construction markets.
You are fascinated by buildings and passionate about the Built Environment
You are looking to build your technical knowledge skills for a recognised career role in Construction Project Management
You are a team player and want to focus on developing project management skills
You want to explore digital project management tools and technologies necessary for your future career
You want to start your journey on becoming a chartered professional
The degree apprenticeship route will enable you to work and study for your degree.
We will create an annual programme timetable, which will include your lectures, seminars and tutorials.
You will receive your timetable once you have registered as a student.
As part of this course, you will work towards your Industry certificates in Site Safety Plus Site Managers’ Safety Training Scheme and Site Environmental Awareness Training Scheme which are required for safe operations in the workplace.
You will also work towards an online or paper-based portfolio of evidence which demonstrates how you have met each of the knowledge, skills and behaviour statements in the standard.
The portfolio can be used to help inform your employer that you are fully prepared to commence the End-point assessment process.
Your employer must be able to support you in this journey – this is a requirement of the apprenticeship.
Entering the programme at level 5, the construction project management degree apprenticeship is delivered part time over three years via a programme of practice-focused modules, our course provides the ideal balance of academic study with the application of professional skills and competencies, mirroring the multidisciplinary, team-based approaches used in modern construction.
Our experienced academic team draws on strong construction industry links to ensure you a stimulating range of external guest lecturers, industrial site visits and career networking opportunities.
You will benefit from field visits, practitioner-led lectures and real-world problem-solving work developed for and by industry.
Collaboration is core to our values, so we strive to embed this throughout your studies.
You will experience group projects that will build your confidence and capabilities in team working, problem-solving and communication - all desirable skills for real-world construction careers.
Following successful completion of the Degree, you will progress to your Apprenticeship End Point Assessment(EPA) in this case the professional review with the CIOB to become a Chartered Member.
Lean and Offsite Production Management
Through this module you will be able to understand the role and responsibilities of the production manager in the context of the UK construction industry.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of the key organisational management principles and issues involved in lean theory and its applications in design, production and operations.
You will be able to demonstrate how risk management processes apply to production management practice.
On this module you will evaluate current and future production processes and methods by which the production manager can control resource efficiency, quality, safety and environment.
You will also develop knowledge and understanding of the implementation of offsite construction for an efficient and effective implementation of construction projects.
Construction Management Project 2
This project will provide you with an opportunity for discipline based project study on a range of built environment scenarios.
You will develop detailed knowledge of discipline specific subject matter by applying relevant concepts and techniques to solve problems in project environments.
You will also develop your project appraisal, collaborative team working, management, critical analysis and problem solving skills.
This module will further develop and apply high-level communication and information technology skills to solve problems and present solutions to a competent standard appropriate for a built environment professional.
You will also develop an understanding of the place of advanced ICT technologies within the sphere of the construction industry professional.
Development Appraisal and Viability
The purpose of the module is to provide you with a good working knowledge and understanding of the aims and objectives of delivering a property development scheme.
You will be able to identify opportunities, undertake feasibility studies and development appraisals to ascertain the viability of a proposed project or site.
You will be required to understand a variety of funding options and how to apply them dependent on your client’s needs.
Project Management
Project management is an important and integral part of a business whether this is product or service based.
This module will help you develop knowledge and critical understanding of the principles of effective project management in a global business context.
We will look at various aspects of Project Management through a variety of means such as lectures and practical seminars with input from our industry connections and the latest in research.
We will examine the subject using theoretical approaches as well as the industry-recognised tools and techniques for planning and controlling projects.
Professional Practice
On this module you will examine the concept of the reflective practitioner such that there can be an alignment of personal and professional development with the future of professional practice.
The module aims to raise the level of awareness of major contemporary issues and developments in the built environment sector and to promote understanding of their significance and impact which will influence future professional conduct.
It will encourage a deep level of understanding of corporate behaviour, the evolution of strategies and their implementation, and the significance for the built environment sector.
You will develop managerial skills and commercial acumen including the promotion of enterprise and innovation and its application in the built environment sector.
You will gain competencies in the research and interpretation of business information and accounting to assist business decision-making and objective setting.
You will also gain an understanding of the importance of the role of the professional in society, the relevance of ethical behaviour, and the social, economic, and commercial significance of corporate responsibilities, particularly in the context of the built environment.
Introduction to Design & Delivery Systems
You will develop knowledge and understanding of tools, techniques and key issues in construction project delivery using Building Information Modelling (BIM).
On completion of the module you will be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of integrated project delivery and its impacts upon improved design co-ordination and information management and exchange amongst project stakeholders.
You will also be able to critically appraise the business need for integrated project design and delivery systems and the benefits and impacts of integrated project delivery upon project management practice, as well as describing and critically evaluate the use of BIM tools in relation to integrated design and delivery systems.
When not attending lectures, tutorials or other timetabled sessions, you will be expected to continue learning independently through self-study and work-based learning.
You must be paid by your employer for the day you attend your study day.
The programme is one of a suite of related programmes within the construction and property sector and benefits from the opportunities to exploit inter-disciplinary learning and collaborative activities.
You will engage in a variety of learning techniques such as formal lectures to primarily transfer core knowledge and information, tutorials to further explore deeper learning and explore new concepts and theories.
Group work sessions, communication and collaboration activities to develop problem solving skills and application of knowledge to allow contextualisation of theory and practice on a practice-based example, and the development of interpersonal and articulation of both technical and verbal skills.
The programme is based on a modular structure over two levels with each module representing a discrete package of learning and appropriate skill development, consistent with the positioning of each module in the overall structure and complementary to the other modules at each level.
The personal development of each student is paramount, and students are encouraged at each level of the programme through appropriate structured activities and processes to engage throughout their studies.
This will encompass the development of research skills to enable each student to practice self-directed research as a feature of the learning process.
This will conclude with the conduct and execution of a discipline research project on a research topic of the student’s choice.
The end point assessment is the professional review with CIOB to become Chartered (MCIOB) which will include 3 assessment methods Online test, Project and a Professional discussion.
You will gain the benefit of other teaching and learning events such as guest lectures, site visits, and integrated projects will be provided as appropriate to enrich the learning experience.
Dale Sookoo
BSc Construction Project Management graduate
Leah
Construction Project Management apprentice
Rising to the challenge of a changing world, our degree courses are designed to shape the next generation of urbanists, scientists, engineers and industry leaders.
Driven by industry, and delivered by supportive programme teams, you can develop the knowledge and skills to become unstoppable in your career.
Experience a modern learning environment at our Peel Park campus, featuring accessible lecture theatres and AV-equipped classrooms, computing suites and multimedia libraries, with access to industry journals, databases, and simulation software.
Online, you will experience Blackboard Ultra, our sophisticated virtual learning environment.
As a construction project management student, you will learn in our carefully-designed study spaces that provide an inspiring environment to develop ideas, work collaboratively and share best practice.
As a construction project management student, you might also encounter our Energy House Laboratories during your studies.
We are a leading centre for energy research and industry collaboration.
We support the construction industry in tackling climate change by finding ways to use energy more efficiently in our built environment.
Through our pioneering research agenda, and world-class facilities, we help businesses understand how effective their products and services are in lowering consumers’ carbon footprint and reducing energy bills.
EMPLOYMENT
Following completion of the programme graduates will use this course to gain the skills and knowledge required to advance their careers and undertake a range of management roles, particularly for careers in the construction industry.
Project management, Construction management, Architectural and Engineering Design Management are some of the roles that the apprentices will work towards and take on as graduates.
The university of Salford, particularly the School of Science, Engineering and Environment have close working links with employers throughout the Northwest and primarily in the Manchester area.
These links are further enhanced with local and national contractors, consultants and clients choosing to educate and train their staff, particularly on the current Construction Project Management BSc.
FURTHER STUDY
You might find you want to learn more about the built environment, so we offer a range of specialism postgraduate study options to help you take your career and interests even further.
Salford graduates and alumni will also receive a significant fees discount.
You might find you want to learn more about the built environment.
Building on our expertise, we offer a range of specialised postgraduate courses that can help you take your knowledge and career opportunities even further.
Salford graduates and alumni will also receive a substantial fee discount.
BIM and Digital Built Environments (MSc)
Construction Law and Practice (MSc)
Quantity Surveying (MSc)
Real Estate and Property Management (MSc
A project manager
A management consultant
A site manager
A construction project manager
And more...
It is expected that applicants must have the equivalent of GCSE English and Maths at Grade C / Level 4 or equivalent.
In addition to these applicants should hold an HNC/HND in Construction and the Built Environment (or equivalent qualifications appropriately mapped on an individual basis to University of Salford Level 4 modules).
Alternatively, applicants should have achieved Technician status (or equivalent) with an industry recognised professional body (for instance, CIOB).
Applicants should have a passion for the Built Environment and a desire to gain an understanding of how projects are procured, built and delivered.
Students should have a willingness to engage in group activities, be curious about the impact of the Built Environments carbon footprint and enthused by the positive impact we can have on people's lives, places we inhabit and the wider socio-economic environment.
Applicants should be working in the Built Environment and should hold an HNC in Construction and the Built Environment (or equivalent qualifications appropriately mapped on an individual basis to University of Salford Level 4 modules).
Alternatively, applicants should have achieved Technician status (or equivalent) with an industry-recognised professional body (for instance, CIOB).
Higher National Certificate
The cost of the full degree apprenticeship programme is £18,000.
Funding band maximum: £18,000
You should consider further costs which may include books, stationery, printing, binding and general subsistence on trips and visits.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/nursing-associate-nursing-associate-higher-apprenticeship:
25 month
The Nursing Associate is a highly trained support role that delivers effective, safe and responsive nursing care in and across a wide range of health and care settings.
This role will bridge the gap between a support worker and a Registered Nurse, providing a workforce for future healthcare.
The programme is a two-year programme leading to a Nursing Associate Foundation Degree.
Nursing Associates will work independently and, as part of the healthcare team, deliver care in a range of primary, secondary, community and social care settings.
In this role, you will deliver hands-on care, focusing on ensuring patients continue to get the compassionate care they deserve.
We scored 95% on the ‘Teaching on my Course’ category in the National Student Survey 2024.
options available
You want to care for patients in all fields of practice (adult, children and young people, mental health and learning disability)
You would like to work in various settings including acute, primary care, mental health and learning disability care
You want to work as a registered and regulated skilled professional within Health and Social Care
You are looking to develop the skills to work with patients of all ages from pre-conception to death
You want to be part of the workforce who deliver hands on care, bridging the gap between healthcare assistants and registered nurses, focusing on ensuring patients get the compassionate care they deserve
You are hard working and committed to improving the health and lives of people and communities
The Nursing Associate programme combines and integrates both academic and work-based learning.
A Nursing Associate apprentice will be based as an employee in a particular organisation and setting, but will experience working in a wide variety of care-giving settings in order to gain an appreciation of the many health and care contexts and fulfil all the requirements of the programme.
You will work alongside qualified practice assessors and supervisors in practice learning areas.
Please note: you, your practice supervisor and practice assessors may work in areas where you will be expected to work on a bank holiday.
If you are contracted to work on bank holidays, you will be expected to work the shifts allocated to you.
There are two distinct components to the higher apprenticeship – the academic programme and the work-based assessment.
As the lead provider, the University is responsible for delivering the academic programme.
The employer is responsible for delivering the work-based assessment components.
The University and employer work closely with each other to:
Apprentices will study six modules in total throughout the programme.
The first year will comprise of modules that will allow apprentices to develop their professionalism, interpersonal skills and find out more about human anatomy, person-centred care, safeguarding and public health and health promotion.
The second year of the programme will include modules that will develop apprentices' knowledge of long-term conditions, medication management, mentorship or coaching, service improvement and nursing interventions.
Explore the specific modules below.
Foundations of Health and Wellbeing
This module will enable you to display a commitment to professional values, standards and ethical practice within the parameters of practice for your role.
You will examine the theories & principles that underpin health & social care and you will learn to apply and promote safe and effective, person-centred nursing care.
Application of Skills to Support Health and Wellbeing 1
In this module, you will explore the principles of public health and develop skills in health promotion and preventative healthcare for individuals across the lifespan, communities and populations.
You will develop knowledge and skills in identifying and managing safeguarding issues and risk assessment and management across the lifespan and develop knowledge of key body systems and apply this to key skills in routine care delivery.
Application of Skills to Support Health and Wellbeing 2
This module will enable you to advance your knowledge and skills of the principles of care delivery for the acutely ill person across the lifespan, whilst maintaining professional values, working within legal and ethical frameworks and parameters of practice.
You will develop knowledge of how physical and psychological health are affected by ill-health and engage in holistic person-centred care planning.
Exploring Specific Health Issues
This module will provide you with the knowledge, clinical and care skills and attitudes & behaviours to provide holistic, patient centred care of mental and physical health across the life span.
You will experience a range of opportunities to practice safe and effective nursing care for people with long-term conditions and you will develop the required knowledge and skills for the safe administration of medicines.
Preparation for Professional (NA) Practice
This module will enable you to explore your own role in relation to duty of care, equality & diversity and within the multidisciplinary team.
You will understand and engage in the process of reflection for providing safe and effective nursing care across the lifespan and when faced with challenges.
You will also explore clinical decision-making skills when prioritising care within a busy environment.
Developing and Changing Practice
This module will enable you to engage in research development & innovation to support evidence-based practice.
You will develop your leadership skills to support your own and colleagues learning and assessment in practice.
The Nursing Associate will undertake a variety of placements.
For some specialist/smaller organisations, apprentices may be required to undertake placements in a neighbouring organisation.
The University of Salford will deliver the academic aspect of the programme.
Nursing Associates will work clinically for 30 hours (pro rata part time) and attend University for 7.5 hours per week.
Throughout the apprenticeship, apprentices will be assessed in both clinical placements and in the University.
Assessments will take place via a range of methods including: practice assessments, essays, objective structed clinical exam (OSCE), presentations and VIVA examinations.
All apprentices in the UK must pass an End Point Assessment (EPA) confirming successful completion of their apprenticeship.
As Nursing Associates are governed by a Regulatory Body (the Nursing and Midwifery Council), there is no further assessment for TNAs to complete.
Instead, the EPA process is integrated into an exam board which approves TNAs to join the NMC register.
Deborah Taylor
FdSc Nursing Associate Higher Apprenticeship
Mohammed
Nursing Associate apprentice
The School of Health and Society is a forward-thinking, dynamic school with a commitment to lifelong learning and real-world impact.
Our courses are informed by the latest research, and we work closely with organisations from both the public and private sectors to ensure our teaching is at the forefront of practice.
Our Simulation Suites provide the opportunity to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment.
Designed like a hospital ward, the suites feature advanced patient simulators capable of mimicking a range of conditions, from the common cold to major heart issues.
The equipment includes:
All simulation equipment is connected to sophisticated computer and audio-visual systems, allowing groups of students to role-play various scenarios with a lab coordinator observing and managing the scenarios remotely.
The computer equipment also offers detailed physiological information for each simulator, helping you develop both clinical and high-level communication skills essential for patient care.
Completion of this course will prepare you with the practice experience and knowledge required to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Nursing Associate.
You will gain experience and knowledge to work in all four fields of nursing (adult, children and young people, mental health and learning disability) and across the lifespan.
You will also be able to work within a range of community, acute care, social and primary care settings within the NHS, public, private and voluntary sectors.
A Nursing Associate
Healthcare is not a nine-to-five job.
Neither is being a Nursing Associate apprentice.
The programme structure will be delivered to degree apprentices on a mix of part-time, day release and block delivery basis subject to agreement by the employer and the University.
In order to undertake this degree apprenticeship, you will need to be in full-time employment (minimum 30 hours a week), spending at least 50% of your time in England.
You will need to be in a relevant role and your employer must be willing to support you through the programme.
Search for degree apprenticeship roles with local employers.
The apprenticeship will run over approximately two years plus one month for the EPA.
A minimum of 20% of the apprenticeship will be spent off the job with the employer or in University and the rest of the time will be spent in clinical practice.
Apprentices will be expected to work the shift pattern in place within the clinical area they are working in.
Whilst on programme you need to be able to demonstrate an ability to study at diploma level with a commitment to complete a foundation degree programme.
You also need to be able to demonstrate that you have capability to learn professional, personal, digital and technological behaviours, skills and attributes in accordance with the Nursing and Midwifery Council Code.
You will need GCSE Maths and English at grade C/ grade 4 or above or equivalent Functional Skills level 2.
Experience
The Nursing Associate apprenticeship programme is for healthcare assistants or clinical support workers who are looking for a new challenge and an opportunity to develop and progress their career within healthcare.
Previous experience as a healthcare assistant or clinical support worker is desirable but not essential, however, you will need to demonstrate the commitment to undertake the challenge of a career in healthcare.
Accreditation of Prior Learning
An applicant who meets the General Entry Academic Requirements as well as further study at Level 4 or above can apply for recognition of prior learning up to a maximum of 50% of the programme.
This maximum limit of 50% does not apply to applicants to pre-registration nursing associate programmes who are currently an NMC registered nurse without restrictions on their practice.
Visit our Accreditation of Prior Learning webpage to find out more.
The cost of the full degree apprenticeship programme is £15,000.
The cost of the apprenticeship will be covered by your employer and/ or the government.
The maximum amount of money allocated to each standard falls into one of 30 funding bands, ranging from £1,500 to £27,000.
The Nursing Associate standard has been allocated the following funding band:
Funding band maximum: £15,000
Find out more about apprenticeship funding .
To apply for this programme, you must be employed in a relevant field (NHS, private Healthcare, etc.).
Apprenticeship roles as Nursing Associates can be found on the links below:
www.jobs.nhs.uk
www.gov.uk/apply-apprenticeship
The application process is two-stage - you must apply to the NHS or other relevant healthcare organisation for your role first.
Following this, the organisation will put you forward to the university, where you will have to apply to the apprenticeship programme via our online application form.
If you are already employed and want to apply for this apprenticeship, the first step is to speak with your organisation's apprentice lead.
They will provide the funding and make initial contact with the Apprenticeship Services Unit at the university.
Information for employers:
If you want to support an employee on an apprenticeship programme, complete the contact form , or email apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk
March 2026
Mental health nursing is a demanding yet rewarding career.
This programme will give you...
Children and young people’s nurses work in a variety of clinical settings and provide care...
On successful completion of this three-year degree, you will be eligible to register as a...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/advanced-clinical-practitioner-advanced-clinical-practitioner-degree-apprenticeship:
Two and a half year
The Advanced Clinical Practitioner Master's Degree Apprenticeship is an accredited programme.
It is a programme for experienced clinicians who wish to advance their professional practice to independently manage holistic episodes of physical and mental healthcare in various settings.
Working across traditional health and social care boundaries, Advanced Clinical Practitioners combine expert clinical skills with research, education and leadership to facilitate change in patient and service outcomes.
This course is aligned with the HEE Multi-professional framework for Advanced Clinical practice (2017).
It uses a work-based learning approach to develop the higher level skills that will lead to advanced clinical practitioner status and enhance your career prospects.
You will be required to be supported in clinical practice by experienced Advanced Clinical Practitioners / Consultants, Medical Consultants, specialist registrars or General Practitioners.
You will be taught by experts in the field including specialist consultants, lecturers, advanced clinical practitioners, pharmacists and radiographers.
You will develop advanced clinical skills in our brand new simulation suites with our award-winning human simulators.
The following pathways are offered:
Speciality accreditation, e.g.
FICM, is supported during the programme.
You are from a regulated professional health or social care background.
You are a registered health professional (nurses, midwives and allied health professionals).
You have been working in the appropriate clinical context for a minimum of two years.
You must have a minimum of 5 years post qualification experience on application.
We currently offer a Critical Care option, Mental Health option, Primary Care and Community option and a Generic, Critical Care is accredited with FICM.
We are proud to be an accredited training site for Advanced Critical Care Trainees.
Advanced Critical Care Practitioners ( ACCPs) are clinical professionals responsible for patients care during their critical care admission.
They are highly experienced and educated practitioners who have developed their skills and theoretical knowledge to a very high standard.
They are empowered to make high-level clinical decisions to ensure that patients receive timely.
personal and effective care.
ACCPs come from a mixture of healthcare backgrounds but must be registered by a professional governing body (HCPC, NMC, GPhC).
ACCPs must complete a programme leading to an appropriate Postgraduate Masters degree with a Higher Education Institution.
Teaching within hospitals is overseen by a Local Clinical Lead (LCL) who holds an honorary appointment with the HEI and is responsible to the HEI for the delivery of the clinical components of training.
They are supported in practice with membership of the Faculty of Intensive care Medicine (FICM) further information can be obtained here https://www.ficm.ac.uk/careersworkforce/accps
For further course information please contact Nicola Parkin N.C.Parkin@salford.ac.uk Programme Lead
​​​​​​All apprentices are enrolled on to the full MSc programme (Advanced Clinical Practice – 180 credits).
This will require 2.5 years of study.
Clinical Examination and Diagnostics
This module introduces the concepts and context of advanced practice and enhances students' current knowledge and skills to enable the development of core and bespoke advanced practice competencies.
Biological Sciences in Advanced Practice
The aim of this module is to provide the theoretical underpinning and practice base to enable healthcare professionals to undertake an advanced clinical examination.
Leading to diagnosis from undifferentiated presenting complaints, both core and bespoke skills of advanced practice competencies are developed.
Contextualising Advanced Practice (Optional)
This module provides a framework enabling you to consolidate generic competencies of advanced clinical practice; critically reflect upon your development in the context of your professional role; develop leadership skills to identify and manage risk appropriately; use research and audit skills to lead service improvement in your clinical practice.
You will critically examine your personal job description in conjunction with the national multi-professional framework for Advanced Clinical Practice which incorporates the fours pillars of Advanced Clinical Practice: Clinical Practice, Leadership and Management, Education, Research.
Non-medical Prescribing (Optional)
This module has been integrated into the programme to enable those registered health professionals who will be able to prescribe as part of their Advanced Practice role.
The module prepares the practitioner to prescribe safely, appropriately and cost-effectively.
In order to undertake the module, it is essential there is additional learning time in practice in order to meet the required practice hours.
This is split into two 15 credit modules: Theory and Practice.
Please refer to the NMP requirements to see whether your professional body is eligible for this module.
This module helps you develop the skills needed in developing practice and policy.
This module will develop your skills in different project management methodologies and methods of inquiry, enabling you to construct a business in relation to service improvement.
Reasoning in Clinical Practice
(pathways within this module: Mental health; Primary Care; Critical Care)
Knowledge and skills related to client management and advanced clinical reasoning will be developed alongside justification for differential diagnoses, investigations and treatments.
Practitioner Competence
The skills required to complete a portfolio of high-quality evidence of achievement of the elements of advanced practice will be developed throughout this module.
EPA
National Advanced Clinical Practice Apprenticeship standard, which includes a 'Change Management' presentation and Open Book exam - this is a mandatory module for all ACP Apprentices.
The emphasis on work-based learning rather than classroom teaching distinguishes this course from more traditional taught courses.
The co creation and collaboration between the workplace and academic facilitators is innovative and embraces the ethos of overall course philosophy and design.
A learning facilitator will be employed with a particular remit to work with practice-based assessors and mentors in order to assure the quality of clinical and work-based learning/assessments.
This course has a strong clinical focus throughout all modules with specialist pathways being offered in: Mental Health, Primary Care and Critical Care, in addition to the Generic Adult pathway.
The programme is taught using face to face teaching in lectures and seminars, action learning sets, the use of online teaching, and practical sessions using plinth rooms and the high fidelity simulation suite.
Apprentices will be taught by an expert multi-professional team, many of whom work in clinical practice as Advanced Clinical Practitioners alongside their academic commitments.
Assessment strategies have been developed to reflect the ethos and learning aims and objectives of individual modules and may include:
- Self assessment - Peer assessment - Practice-based assessments: Including case based discussions; integrated systematic health assessment records, DOPs, core and bespoke skills.
- Critical reflective commentaries - Portfolio of evidence - Viva Voce - OSCA - Poster presentations - Service delivery and organisational assessment and redesign - Assessed essays - Client management plans - Written reports - Unseen examinations
The School of Health and Society is a forward-thinking, dynamic school with a commitment to lifelong learning and real world impact.
We live in a rapidly changing world, and we’re keen to leave a productive legacy of helping people at all stages of their lives, improving their physical, psychological and social wellbeing.
Our Plinth rooms and Clinical Practice Wards are located in the Mary Seacole Building on the first and second floor.
The rooms are furnished with patient's beds, lockers, chairs, sinks and curtains as well as audio-visual equipment, internet and a teaching area.
Patient Simulators
The patient simulation laboratory provides you with the opportunity to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment.
Set up like a hospital ward or community-based environment, the lab contains hi-tech patient simulators that can mimic everything from the common cold to a major heart condition.
All of the Advanced Clinical Practice faculty hold a master’s qualification, and over 50% of the teaching team are practising Advanced Clinical Practitioners from a range of clinical backgrounds, from Oncology to Mental Health and Critical Care.
Programme Lead: Nicky Parkin
Nicky Parkin qualified as a nurse in 1996 from St.
Marys Hospital (now part of Imperial College, London), where she worked for 3 years on the National Vascular High Dependency Unit.
She moved to Manchester in 1999 and worked in Intensive Care for 8 years.
She then moved to The Christie and was part of the team developing the Oncology Critical Care Unit, and it was there that she completed her MSc Nursing at the University of Salford.
She joined the Advanced Clinical Practice faculty in 2017 and has recently become the Lead of this programme, motivated by a strong belief in education and development of nurses and AHCP’s.
On completion of this course, you will be eligible for a advanced clinical practitioner role in your own specialist field such as midwifery, emergency medicine, critical care, mental health, acute medicine or surgery, and primary care.
Whilst many advanced clinical practitioners remain in post, some have chosen to become non-medical consultants, and hold leadership roles within Clinical Practice.
Upon completion of the course some students may also wish to progress onto a PhD or Professional Doctorate.
Advanced Clinical Practitioner in their field of practice.
This is a multi-professional role.
English language and Maths at grade C/grade 4 or above; or Key Skills level 2 in Maths and English.
Certificates need to be available at interview and be checked by HR prior to shortlisting.
If candidates do not have their certificates they should bring evidence of having applied to the appropriate Exam Board for replacements.
Full acceptable English and Maths requirements are available here .
You can arrange replacement certificates here.
Evidence of these must accompany your application.
Please be aware of the application deadline below.
September 2025 – Thursday 31st July 2025
Level 2 equivalents such as functional or key skills can be accepted.
The total cost of this apprenticeship is £12,000.
APPRENTICESHIP FUNDING
Funding for the apprenticeship levy is only available to employers in England.
Find out more at www.gov.uk/government/collections/apprenticeship-changes

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeship/public-health-practitioner-public-health-practitioner-degree-apprenticeship:
The BSc (Hons) Public Health Practitioner degree apprenticeship has been developed through consultation with Public Health England and employers in a range of public health-related fields, to meet the requirements of the UK Public Health Register.
Successful completion will enable you to register as a Public Health Practitioner.
The degree apprenticeship provides a new route for developing and retaining the future public health workforce that is complementary to the academic route, ensuring that graduating apprentices are competent Public Health Practitioners able to meet the future needs of employers.
The University of Salford’s School of Health and Society is an institutional member of the Association of Schools of Public Health in the European Region (ASPHER).
For further information about the programme, please contact Nilam Prinjha , Lecturer in Public Health, School of Health & Society.
Alternatively, for general enquiries you can complete the contact us form , or email the Apprenticeship Service Unit: apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk .
You are passionate about health improvement at the population or community level, assessing and managing risk of disease and ill-health, and the prevention of premature deaths
You want to work as part of a national workforce that strives to help people and communities to maximise their potential for a healthy, happy and productive life, to live healthier for longer
You are working in a public-health related role and you want to improve your career prospects by gaining professional status as a Public health Practitioner
You want to help shape government policy and strategy
You want to study in a School that is a member of ASPHER
You want to be taught by staff who are nationally and internationally recognised for their research
The BSc Public Health Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship has been developed through consultation with Public Health England and employers working in a range of public health related fields to enable successful graduates to work in the field as registered Public Health Practitioners.
Public Health Practitioners work as part of a national workforce that strives to help people and communities to maximise their potential for a healthy, happy and productive life, and to live healthier for longer.
The apprenticeship takes three years to complete, and during that time you will undertake a range of modules aligned to the Public Health Skills & Knowledge Framework (2016).
Evidence Based Health Promotion
This module will provide students with an introduction to evidence-based health promotion.
This will include how interventions are planned, designed and developed and evaluated.
Alongside this, students will learn how to access and use the evidence base, from which informed advice can be provided and research carried out.
Promoting the Public’s Health and Wellbeing
This module will introduce you to population and community-based health promotion approaches, explore theoretical underpinnings to behaviour change and how public health interventions are developed and evaluated.
Health Protection
This module will give students knowledge and understanding of infectious disease, and the challenges and successes of disease prevention and management.
Students will also learn about the range of environmental hazards that can pose a risk to the public’s health and an understanding of how to mitigate these risks.
Public Health Intelligence
This module will introduce students to methods for classifying health and disease.
Students will also learn about the technical, legal, and ethical issues that relate to using routine health surveillance data.
Designing, Developing and Evaluating Health Improvement Programmes
This module will provide students with knowledge about health care service design, planning, delivery and evaluation, drawing on best practice guidance and quality assurance frameworks.
Students will also develop an understanding of the complexities of measuring health improvement and of setting performance indicators.
Skills for Public Health - Basic
This module will focus on developing your academic and reflective skills to capture evidence of core public health skills gained, in line with the Public Health Practitioner (PHP) framework.
You will develop skills in recording and reporting on evidence of skill development to support portfolio development.
Communicating Health and Health Risks
On this module, students will learn skills for communicating health messages using different platforms, including the increasing use of digital health communications.
Students will also learn about the barriers and facilitators to health communication within different population groups.
Collaborative Working in Public Health
This module focuses on developing your understanding of collaborative working across agencies involved in public health.
You will explore the boundaries which impact on health outcomes and health inequalities.
Policy and Strategy in Public Health
This module will provide students with knowledge and understanding of how policies and strategies are proposed, adopted and used locally and nationally.
It will also look at the role of policies in bringing about change (including the use of behavioural change theories) to impact health and wellbeing.
Ethical Issues in Public Health
In this module you will develop an understanding of key ethical considerations that impact on public health and health inequalities.
You will learn how ethical frameworks can support decision making and explore ethical issues in relation to a particular area of public health you find interesting, such as smoking, inactivity, poor nutrition, or mental health and wellbeing.
Commissioning for Health
This module will provide students with the knowledge of how health and care services are funded, commissioned and procured.
Students will also learn about measuring health improvement progress against key performance indicators.
Skills for Public Health - Intermediate
This module will focus on developing academic and reflective skills to capture evidence of core public health skills gained, in line with the Public Health Practitioner (PHP) framework.
You will develop skills in recording and reporting on evidence of skill development to support portfolio development, collaboration with others and critical analysis and synthesis of personal evidence.
Leadership and Management in Public Health
This module will provide students with an understanding of the role of leadership in decision making and change management within organisations applicable to public health.
You will learn about the principles of project management, corporate governance and accountability and the importance of evaluation, audit and quality assurance.
Health Economics
This module will provide students with an understanding of how to manage resources to achieve value for money and equitable health outcomes at a population/systems level.
Skills for Public Health - Advanced
This module will consolidate the work developed at L4 and L5 and reflect and review on your skill development across all of the Public Health Practitioner (PHP) framework.
You will engage in reflective activities relating to stakeholder engagement and public health programme development and implementation.
You will continue to develop skills in recording and reporting on evidence of skill development to support portfolio development.
To accommodate different learning styles and prior experiences, a combination of teaching and learning strategies are used throughout the course.
These include a structured teaching programme, delivered one day each week to represent your 20% off the job training.
This will include:
Each module will be assessed by coursework and/or end of module examination.
Apprentices will also complete an End Point Assessment (EPA) as part of their final module.
The EPA includes: the submission of a portfolio of evidence relating to knowledge, skills and behaviours you have learnt within the University and on the job; a presentation of practice with question and answer session; and a scenario based judgement test.
Our courses are informed by the latest research and we work closely with organisations from both the public and private sector to ensure our teaching is at the forefront of practice.
With this qualification, you'll be well placed to apply for public health roles in local or national government health departments.
The range of jobs varies widely, and can include health promotion, health policy development, research or health advocacy.
Full time students on this course can apply for student membership with The Royal Society for Public Health.
Upon completion of the course students are eligible to apply for a fellowship membership with The Royal Society for Public Health .
Apprentice students who successfully complete the end-point assessment will be ‘registration-ready’ for professional registration as a Public Health Practitioner with the UK Public Health Register.
A Local or National Government Worker
A Health Policy Developer
A Health Researcher
An International Health Worker
The course has been developed in collaboration with employers in public health-related fields including City Councils, Local Authorities, Public Health England, Higher Education England (HEE).
Demand from employers nationally has led to the development of these standards, led by Public Health England.
Regional demand ascertained in the North West and Yorkshire from Directors of Public Health has shown a high level of demand for the apprenticeship and the opportunities it can provide for new entrants within the system and for the career development of their own staff.
Suitable for those working in a public-health related role who wish to develop their careers further, or those employed as a new entrant apprentice in a public-health related role.
International applicants will be required to show a proficiency in English.
An IELTS score of 6.5 (with no element below 5.5) is proof of this.
If you need to improve your written and spoken English, you might be interested in our English language courses.
Two GCSEs at minimum grade C/ grade 4 in English Language and Mathematics or equivalent Functional Skills level 2.
120 points
DDM
Access to HE
European Baccalaureate
Pass in Diploma of at least 75%
We positively welcome applications from students who may not meet the stated entry criteria but who can demonstrate their ability to successfully pursue a programme of study in higher education.
Students who do not have the traditional entry requirements may be able to apply through the Salford Alternative Entry Scheme .
Support in preparing for the written assessment is available from the University.
The maximum amount of money allocated to each standard falls into a specific funding band, ranging from £1,500 to £27,000.
The Social Worker standard has been allocated the following funding band: Funding band maximum: £20,000
In order to apply for an apprenticeship you must first be in employment with a company who is willing to put you onto the degree apprenticeship scheme.
The government national apprenticeship website has further information on this subject: https://www.apprenticeships.gov.uk/ .
This website also advertises vacancies for degree apprentices, unfortunately the university does not hold details of employers vacancies.
If you are currently in employment with a company who is willing to support you through a degree apprenticeship, then they will need to contact us in the first instance to express their interest in the degree apprenticeship scheme and then this will trigger the application process etc.
Our next intake is January 2026, and applications close on Friday 21st November, so get in touch today: apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk
Information for employers
If you want to support an employee on an apprenticeship programme, complete the online request for services form in the first instance.
For general apprenticeship inquiries complete the contact us form , email: apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk .
Once the completed request for services form is received, an online application form will be sent out to you to share with the candidate.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprentice-case-studies:
Our apprentices choose our courses to gain hands-on practical experience, whilst also studying and continuing in education.
They create relationships within the workplace and receive a lot of support from the Apprenticeship Services Unit during their time at the University.
Below are several case studies from our different schools of learning:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/apprenticeships/subcontracting:
Payment to employer providers will be made to cover direct costs only as required in the ESFA funding rules.
Employers subcontracted to deliver part of an apprenticeship must evidence the direct costs of their delivery in order to claim payment.
The management fees are individually negotiated with each subcontractor and are agreed between the parties in advance of the commencement of the subcontracting arrangement.
These fees will reflect the University's costs in procuring and managing subcontracts and the associated apprenticeship provision and in normal circumstances will not exceed 20% of the overall contract.
Typically, the management fees cover the provision of:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprenticeship-funding:
The amount you get depends on whether you pay the apprenticeship levy or not.
You pay the levy if you’re an employer with a pay bill over £3 million each year .
If you do not pay the levy, you pay 5% towards the cost of training and assessing your apprentice.
Does your company pay in to the Levy fund?
If so, please see below the following guidance and how to set up a Digital Account.
Apprenticeship funding and how it will work
Register to manage your apprenticeship funds – Guidance
Pay Apprenticeship Levy - Guidance
When you have to pay Apprenticeship Levy and how to report your payments.
To spend funds in your Apprenticeship Service account, you need to:
1) Choose a training provider
2) Agree a price and payment schedule Once your Apprentice’s have completed the online application process and had an offer the Apprenticeships Service Unit will send you the following:
3) Pay for training and assessment with funds through your apprenticeship service account Once the apprenticeship training you’ve bought has started, monthly payments will be taken from your Apprenticeship Service Account and sent to the Provider.
For any apprenticeship service and digital account enquiries or technical advice please contact:
Apprenticeship Employer Helpline nationalhelpdesk@apprenticeships.gov.uk +44 (0)800 0150 600
The Department for Education has moved to a digital system by which non-levy employers will be able to make ‘reservations’ for funding for up to three apprenticeship starts.
The funding will be reserved for three months, after which time this funding will expire, and a new reservation will have to be made.
There are step-by-step instructions for this:
Setting up a digital account
How to reserve funding
Adding an Apprentice to an account
In order to set up a user account on the digital service, you will need (step-by-step instructions in the link earlier in the email):
One of the following:
You may also need:
In order to make a reservation you will need to know the month in which the apprenticeship starts and the standard to be undertaken.
Please bear in mind reservations will only last three months so you need to reserve this at the appropriate time.
Get started
Create a Digital Account
Please note: you will be reserving funds for the 95% of the course fees covered by the government co-investment.
For the remaining 5%, you will be invoiced by the University on a monthly basis as per the payment schedule in your contract.
If you are a non-levy organisation based in Greater Manchester or Salford, you can take advantage of the levy transfer schemes that are available.
This is where large levy paying organisations transfer their levy to a smaller non-levy employer to support them with apprenticeship training.
The levy transfer is for the full amount of the programme so you won't have to pay the 5% fee.
Greater Manchester Levy Matchmaking
Once you have agreed a levy transfer with an organisation, you will need to set up a digital account to receive this levy transfer and then you will need to link to your training provider via their UKPRN.
Find out more here

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/salford-secures-over-half-a-million-pounds-to-support-the-growth-and-diversification-of-degree-apprenticeships:
The University of Salford is set to receive £304,390 as part of phase two of a successful bidding competition from the Office of Students (OfS).
The funding will increase quality of opportunity for degree apprenticeships, growing capacity and capability within the Higher Education sector to meet present and future skills needs.
The announcement follows the news in January that Salford had secured £223,053 in phase one of the competition, bringing the overall total of funding received to £527,443.
Successful bids were required to demonstrate how their course provision will enhance equality of opportunity, to ensure that students from every background are able to access and succeed in their chosen career path.
The University offers a wide range of apprenticeship programmes across Science, Engineering, Construction, Health and Society.
It’s an area which has seen significant growth at the institution, with over 1700 apprentices projected at Salford by September 2024.
The University has also taken the lead role in the recently established Greater Manchester Institute of Technology (GMIoT).
The GMIoT is constantly evolving in response to industry demand for skills and as such, apprenticeships form a key component of the GMIoT’s portfolio.
Along with improving equality, this funding will be used to support sectors’ priority high level skill requirements as identified in the Greater Manchester Local Skills Improvement Plan (GM LSIP).
Paul Ward, Director of International and Regional Development at the University of Salford, said: “To receive over half a million pounds to help us break down barriers to higher education is a real achievement.
At Salford we’ve worked tirelessly to engage underrepresented groups and enable those who have not considered higher education to fulfil their full potential and develop their employability and skills.”
“Salford are proud to be one of the top-ranking Universities for Social Mobility in the UK (12th in HEPI Social Mobility Index 2023) – this new funding will help us to do even more in this space through the growth and expansion of our apprenticeship portfolio.”
John Blake, Director for Fair Access and Participation at the OfS, said: “With this second round of bids, we were looking for universities and colleges to not only describe how OfS funding would expand their degree apprenticeships student numbers and course provision, but also to further demonstrate how they would prioritise recruiting and supporting students from all backgrounds to succeed.
I’m pleased to say that all the successful bids have risen to this challenge.
“We know that degree apprenticeships are so important as a route for students looking to engage in higher education in less traditional ways, and the benefits they bring to local and regional economies, which is why are investing up to £40 million over the next two academic years to increase the range and availability of these programmes.
We have been inspired by the ambitious and forward-looking plans we have received, and I look forward to seeing how this funding can make a real difference to students and our future workforce over the next year and beyond.”
The King's Birthday Honours list for 2025 celebrates the service of extraordinary people...
On Tuesday this week Vice Chancellor Nic Beech hosted a special evening at the House of...
The University of Salford is supercharging its commitment to the local community by...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/apprenticeships/national-apprenticeship-week:
National Apprenticeship Week (10-16 February 2025) is our opportunity to celebrate the achievements of Salford apprentices and the positive impact they are having on their communities, workplaces, and the wider economy.
For the past nine years, our teams have worked alongside our partner employers to develop, upskill and retain teams across a wide variety of sectors including construction, engineering, science, healthcare and policing.
Apprenticeships are the alternative route to a university qualification that allows apprentices to apply theory and the latest research from the classroom directly to their place of work.
This page brings together their inspiring stories, as well as news about our annual Apprenticeship Awards that celebrate their outstanding contributions.
Every February, we take the opportunity to get involved in the UK's national celebration of apprenticeships with events and activities throughout the week.
Watch our video to see how we celebrated National Apprenticeship Week 2025.
The School of Health and Society's Policing team brought together Greater Manchester Police (GMP) officers, University of Salford academics and Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship (PCDA) graduates for an afternoon of research and networking to share the ways that apprentices' research is being embedded into the force's problem-solving practices.
Apprentices are making a contribution from day one, as soon as they start their studies.
Whether it's working alongside other more experienced colleagues or developing new projects and new initiatives, it really helps our businesses and organisations to succeed.
We're absolutely proud of our apprenticeship programmes here in Greater Manchester.
Kate Green, Greater Manchester's Deputy Mayor for Safer and Stronger Communities
Laing O'Rourke is one of our biggest longstanding partner employers.
As part of National Apprenticeship Week, we hosted their Apprenticeship Roadshow that allowed would-be apprentices to find out about apprenticeship opportunities on offer and learn more about the construction industry.
Working with University of Salford on an apprenticeships programme is a really great experience.
We’ve been working with the University for over six years now, and we know they've got a well-structured delivery arm with the right people at the University to support our apprentices and to monitor their progress.
Scott Bell, Training Competence and Early Talent Lead for Laing O’Rourke
The team attended events both online and in person throughout the week to support our NHS partner Trusts, including Liverpool University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Stockport NHS Foundation Trust, Tameside and Glossop Integrated Care NHS Foundation Trust and Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust.
Our current apprentices had the opportunity to attend events throughout the week that supported their professional development and helped them to grow their networks, like the event organised by the School of Health and Society for Public Health Practitioner degree apprentices.
We want equity, diversity and inclusion to be at the heart of everything we do at Salford.
That's why staff members from the School of Health and Society took the opportunity to come together and learn from experts about how we can do more to support underrepresented students.
Every year, the highlight of National Apprenticeship Week is our Apprenticeship Awards evening where we celebrate the exceptional work of our apprentices, employers and programme teams.
This year, our Apprenticeship Awards took place at the Etihad Stadium, Manchester on Thursday 13 February 2025.
"Events like the Apprenticeship Awards are really important because they provide us all with an opportunity to hear first-hand how apprenticeships have fundamentally transformed people’s lives in our city.
They have given people hope for the future while skilling them and giving them a wealth of experience that they can take with them into the labour market and beyond as they develop their career."
Paul Dennett, Salford City Mayor
Employed in organisations from councils and construction companies to hospitals and laboratories, our apprentices are making a hugely positive impact within their organisations by bringing their creativity and commitment, as well as the latest research, straight into the workplace.
We asked a few of our apprentices and alumni to tell us about their proudest achievements from their career and apprenticeship so far.
“My proudest achievement during the apprenticeship is having two published articles with the Bioscientist magazine, having the opportunity to interview the NHS Deputy Chief Scientific Officer was a real privilege.”
“A moment that stands out is being asked to lead on the Trust’s menopause learning disabilities sub pathway.
Since being an undergraduate I have had a passion to improve outcomes for our most vulnerable patients.”
"Winning the Made in Manchester 2025 Apprentice of the Year award is an incredible honour, and it reaffirms my belief that apprenticeships provide the perfect foundation for building a successful, impactful career."
"I set up a support group within Staffordshire for young professionals on their APC route with the RICS.
I noticed that there was a gap, with the closest areas offering this being Manchester and Birmingham.
We have reached eight members in the group and I hope to have more join in the future!
I am proud of this as it was hard to engage people to want to come when no one else had offered this in Staffordshire."
"My proudest achievement was rising to the role of Head of Learning and Development during my apprenticeship at EG Group.
It was a defining moment in my career and enabled me to achieve my ultimate career goal - becoming Head of Department, where I now drive impactful learning initiatives."
"A moment that stood out to me was being asked to go back to my secondary school to tell all the girls about what construction is and what an apprenticeship is all about."
"I worked on our Let’s Chat Derbyshire campaign that aims to get people chatting and decrease the stigma around loneliness.
The NHS in Derbyshire, the council and different workplaces have embedded it into their policies and our work has led to our biggest ever Suicide Prevention Event that had over 1,000 attendees on the day.
It’s really nice to see the wide spread that just one campaign has had."
"My proudest moment was the achievement of my RICS accreditation.
The apprenticeship assisted in achieving this as much of the knowledge I gained were through modules I had completed in my education.
This meant I had a great level of foundation knowledge which I could then target to develop further in the workplace."
We are proud to be one of the leading apprenticeship providers in the North West, equipping our partner employers with the skills needed to meet the needs of industry.
In our recent video, Vice-Chancellor, Nic Beech shared the important role apprenticeships play for us as a university and in driving innovation.
During National Apprenticeship Week, the Apprenticeship Services Unit hosts our annual awards evening to celebrate the exceptional work of our apprentices, employers and programme teams.
This year, attendees heard inspiring stories from apprentices and alumni, and celebrated the outstanding impact they're having in the workplace and their communities.
"Events like the Apprenticeship Awards are really important because they provide us all with an opportunity to learn from one another and to hear first-hand how apprenticeships have fundamentally transformed people’s lives in our city.
Visit our webpage below for more information about this year's awards and to see our full list of nominees.
The University's Apprenticeship Awards aren't the only prizes our community is taking home.
We're hugely proud of our apprentices who have gone above and beyond in their workplace and, as a result, many have been recognised on a national stage.
Here are just a few of the recent award wins we’re celebrating at Salford:
Visit our webpage

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/apprenticeships/contact-us:
The Apprenticeship Service Unit are on hand to help you at each stage of your application.
Whether you are enquiring about employing an apprentice in your workplace or need advice with funding, we will support you throughout the process.
You can use the form below to contact us, or alternatively email apprenticeships@salford.ac.uk or call: +44 (0)161 295 3063

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international-opportunities/outgoing-students:
Studying or working abroad is a life-changing experience that will allow you to take on new challenges and increase your self-confidence, independence and ambition.
You’ll also learn about different cultures and acquire new skills to enhance your employability once you graduate.
Watch our trailer below from our students who have participated in an international opportunity of a lifetime.
All students who went on international placements between 2014-2023
Achieved 2:1 degrees and above
Achieved First Class degrees
Adding an international opportunity to your degree can improve your grades.
Our data was taken from students who took part in international placements compared to those who didn't from 2014-2023.
Please submit your enquiry to the International Opportunities Enquiry Form to be added to our mailing and see below for details on how to apply.
If you’re a registered Salford student and want to find out how to apply.
We are partners with institutions across the globe, take a look to see which partners you could study at.
Students can receive funding via the Turing Scheme for overseas study exchanges and overseas work placements.
Come and chat with us about your international opportunities every Wednesday from 14:00-14:30.
It’s easy to become a global citizen, and travelling isn’t the only way to do it!
Discover how to experience the world through global education and learning, involvement in global causes and the global community and a lot more.
Contact the team and follow us on Instagram for events, partner information and student posts at SalfordIntOpps .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international-opportunities/turing-scheme-information:
We have secured funding to support study exchanges and specific mobility projects that schools have submitted a bid for the academic year.
For study placements, we can provide Turing funding to cover student mobilities.
Please see Our Partnerships for information and contact the International Opportunities Team if you have any queries.
Turing Scheme funding is intended to be a contribution towards the cost of placements.
An amount of funding will be provided to go towards the general cost of living for each participant .
This will vary depending on sector and destination country/territory.
Destination countries/territories will be grouped into three categories: group 1 (higher cost of living), group 2 (lower cost of living).
Students on a higher education placement will receive:
Participants from disadvantaged backgrounds on a higher education placement will receive a higher cost of living grant.
See the disadvantaged criteria below for more information.
The cost of living grant funding provided to students from disadvantaged backgrounds will be:
If you meet the Turing Scheme definition of a disadvantaged student, you will also be eligible for travel payment, related to the distance and cost of travel upon receipt between the University of Salford and the placement or study abroad host.
The Turing Scheme will provide funding towards the direct costs of travel for Higher Education students from disadvantaged backgrounds, for one return journey including transfers.
All amounts available have been outlined below:
Please see the list of destinations and travel grant rates for more information.
Students who meet the disadvantaged student criteria may be eligible for an uplift to their cost of living grant.
To qualify for the extra funding available for disadvantaged students (the ‘disadvantaged uplift’), students must fall into one of the following categories:
For those HE students who do not meet the criteria for additional support, you may get a grant to cover some of your travel expenses.
Find out more depending on whether you normally live in:
For participants with SEND, the scheme will fund up to 100% of actual costs for support directly related to their additional needs.
This is in line with what was provided under the 2014-2020 Erasmus+ programme.
Unlike Erasmus+, however, this funding will also cover preparatory visits by the sending organisation to carry out risk assessments and ensure participants will be able to equally access and take part in all elements of a placement.
Pre-visits can be for a maximum duration of three days, and funding can be used for both learners and accompanying staff.
Pre-visits are not available for any other purpose.
If you have any questions or queries about the Turing Scheme and can’t find the answers online, you can email our team .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international-opportunities/our-partnerships:
For more information on our study exchange partners, please visit our student hub .
For collaborative partnerships, please visit the Partnerships Team page.
School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international-opportunities/incoming-students:
Whether you're considering studying with us for just one semester or a full academic year, it's important to consider the different schemes available to you.
For incoming students, there are three programmes in place: Study Abroad (fee-paying), Erasmus+ and International Exchange.
If you're an incoming student, there are plenty of reasons why you should choose to study abroad with us: our unbeatable links to industry, state-of-the-art facilities and award-winning academics will enhance your experience and increase your employability.
Please refer to our Incoming Student Roadmap which details the application and registration process as well as what resources are available to incoming exchange students who are interested in studying at Salford.
Contact the team via email at salford-iot@salford.ac.uk and follow us on Instagram for events, student posts and more at SalfordIntOpps .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international-opportunities/information-for-partner-universities:
The following information provides our deadlines, application process, immigration and English language requirements to assist our study exchange partnerships in nominating their students through one of our exchange programmes.
Winter semester (Trimester 1): 15 April
Spring semester (Trimester 2):  15 September
All students must be nominated by their home institution, regardless of programme, using our Incoming Student Nomination form .
We will pass this information on to the students’ chosen school for them to make a provisional decision based on the information provided.
If the nomination is accepted, this remains conditional upon further documents provided at the application stage.
If the nomination is accepted, students will be able to discuss module selection with their Exchange Coordinator.
Winter semester (Trimester 1): 15 April - 2 May
Spring semester (Trimester 2):  26 September - 3 October
If the student’s nomination is accepted in principle, they will be invited to complete our student application through the central admissions system - where they will be invited to answer further questions and upload the following:
Applicants coming to Salford for one semester only on a Visitor Visa (who therefore do not need a CAS number for a Student Visa) will have to meet the English language requirements outlined in our inter-institutional agreement with their home institution.
They will also need to sign an English Language Declaration confirming that they will only stay for one semester.
All students undertaking an English programme e.g.
English Language, English Literature etc., are required to submit a valid - not older than two years - C1 English language certificate).
The transcript will be passed on to the school to ensure the student is suitable for the course they have chosen.
If the school accepts them, we will pass on their details and documents to our Admissions team to complete any final checks.
Once these steps are completed, and if the student is accepted, we will provide an official acceptance letter which will include the student’s ID number.
Applicants needing a visa will also be provided with a CAS number.
Please allow a minimum of six weeks following the application deadline for applications to be processed.
Once students are officially accepted, they will then be able to make all the necessary arrangements, e.g.
visa, flights, accommodation etc.
Partner institutions can track the application status of their nominated students via our CRM system, please view our CRM Guide for Exchange Partners for more information.
We are committed to supporting all students and providing them with fair and equal access to their education.
Students on exchange at the University of Salford are entitled to the full provision of services detailed at askUS .
At the application stage, students will be invited to specify if they identify themselves with any protected characteristics.
This information will enable us to provide students with the relevant support.
We are unfortunately unable to guarantee accommodation.
However, we will support all students who are unable to source accommodation.
At Salford, we work with our accommodation partner, Campus Living Villages who manage two accommodation villages.
Prices include all utilities, Wi-Fi, use of on-site social areas and free on-site gym.
For alternative options, please visit our accommodation page, or email askus-accommodation@salford.ac.uk .
All students are strongly advised not to sign any contracts or make any payments for private accommodation sourced online.
Students wishing to live in private accommodation are strongly advised to book temporary accommodation (hotel, hostels etc.).
This can be UKVI or Academic IELTS.
Please see the English language requirements for further details of other acceptable qualifications.
International and EU students staying for one semester only are required to enter the UK as a visitor or on a Student Visa if they are planning to work whilst studying.
International and EU students staying for a full academic year are required to obtain a Student Visa before they travel to the UK.
Please note: all International and EU students applying for a programme that might involve a work component (e.g.
Performing Arts, Music, Fashion etc.) will be required to apply for a Student Visa even if studying for one semester only.
You must wait for your Student Visa application to be granted before you travel to the UK – you should not travel to the UK whilst your visa application is ongoing even if you are an EU/EEA national.
For further information on visas and the various documentation required in order to obtain one, please visit Gov.uk visa check .
If you are studying for less than six months you may not need to obtain a physical visa before travelling.
You can check whether you need a visa in advance of travelling using Gov.uk visa check .
Please remember that in all cases you must bring your passport with you to the UK, even if you are an EU/EEA national.
For any further immigration assistance email homeofficecompliance@salford.ac.uk .
The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) requires all international students subject to existing UK immigration permissions, who are applying to study for a postgraduate qualification in certain sensitive subjects, knowledge of which could be used in programmes to develop weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) or their means of delivery, to apply for an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate before they can study in the UK.
The requirement for an ATAS certificate applies to all students whose nationality is outside the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland, irrespective of country of residence at the point of application.
An ATAS certificate is required for international students applying to study for a postgraduate qualification in the UK.
For more information, visit Gov.uk Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) .
Our aim is to recognise factors that may put a student at a disadvantage to their peers.
The completion of a Reasonable Adjustment Plan allows us to make individual recommendations to ensure that the university fulfils its obligation in giving disabled students fair and equal access to their education.
If a student has a disability , please make sure you inform us at the nomination stage.
Be sure to follow us on social media for updates and events.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international-opportunities/meet-the-team:
Meet the Salford International Opportunities team, please contact our shared mailbox enquiries.
International Opportunities Officer
International Opportunities Assistant

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/parents/help-and-advice:
We understand you want to support your applicant in making an informed decision about studying with us, so we've produced these pages to help you do that.
We hope this guide covers all the questions you might have about life at Salford and the opportunities available at our institution.
The wellbeing of our students is extremely important, and we have a dedicated student support service in place, known as askUS .
The service is centrally based on our campus and supports students with mental health conditions as well as those who might need emotional support during their studies.
Our askUS team are also able to help with a range of student queries, including money matters, accommodation, disability and learner support, work and careers, and academic support.
To prepare for university life, both you and your applicant might find the Student Minds ‘ Know Before You Go ’ guide a useful resource for identifying and navigating a range of situations students often encounter.
The cost of university can be a major concern for applicants and their supporters, but the most important thing to note is that there are no upfront costs for tuition fees , and any repayments will be linked to the graduate’s salary once they reach a certain threshold for payment.
You’ll find some really helpful information on our Money Matters pages including budgeting and living costs advice.
The Student Room and Money Saving Expert also have some great resources for students and their supporters.
All full-time, undergraduate degree courses at the University of Salford cost £9,535 per year* for entry in the 2025/26 academic year.
Our Higher Technical Skills courses, and those courses with a foundation year as the first year of study may have a reduced tuition fee.
For more information on the fees for each course, please see individual course pages .
* Please note, our fees are reviewed on an annual basis and may be subject to change.
Student loans
Tuition fee loans are provided by the Student Loans Company and applications are made to Student Finance England, Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland as appropriate.
We would encourage applicants to apply for their student finance as soon as possible to ensure their finances are in place for the new academic year.
Our accommodation sites are managed by our partners, Campus Living Villages , who have a great team on-hand supporting our students.
For students who have decided to commute into University from home, we have common rooms on campus where students can study, socialise, have lunch and relax between classes.
On occasion, students who move into our accommodation make the decision that it’s not for them, and they want to move out.
In this instance, students should speak to the askUS team , who can help them with their decision.
It’s important to note that when signed, the tenancy is legally binding and for the full academic year.
Sometimes it will be possible for a contract to be taken over by another student, but if this is not possible, the student will remain liable.
During the application window, we send a number of communications to our offer holders.
Some of these communications include general information, hints and tips or information relating to their offer, while others are practical communications that may require action from the applicant.
We always verify an applicant’s identity before responding to an enquiry about the status of an application.
To help us respond quickly, it’s important that, when communicating with us, the applicant informs us of their full name, course of application, UCAS personal ID number and date of birth.
All applicants are issued with a student ID number when they apply to study with us.
This is an eight-digit, unique identifier, starting with an ‘@’ sign.
It can be found on the initial ‘Thanks for your application’ email, and in the footer of any communications thereafter.
We advise applicants to keep this number handy when contacting us, and it will also be needed for accommodation applications.
Before, results day, applicants should make sure all contact information is up-to-date on UCAS.
Often, applicants will use a school email address at the point of application, but find it is no longer accessible when they finish college; in this instance, it is important to update this with a personal email address.
We also recommend adding us to any ‘safe senders’ list on email accounts to avoid any important communications ending up in junk folders; most of our emails come from enquiries@salford.ac.uk or registration@salford.ac.uk .
If your applicant applies before the UCAS deadline of 14 January 2026, they should have received all responses from their chosen universities by 31 March 2026, and can select their firm and insurance choices (which must be done by 6 May 2026) on their UCAS Hub.
If your applicant fails to meet the deadline to reply to offers, they will be 'declined by default', which automatically marks offers as unsuccessful.
If you do find that your applicant’s application has been rejected by default, there is a very short period of time (usually around two weeks) where UCAS will allow for the application to be reinstated.
You should call UCAS on +44 (0)371 468 0468 as a matter of urgency.
Applicants normally receive their exam and assessment results in July or August, depending on their specific qualifications.
In addition to lectures, seminars, workshops and practical sessions, there are plenty of societies, sports and clubs students can get involved in.
With the Students' Union , our students can join a range of student-run societies, from debating to dancing, radio to rambling; there's something to suit all.
We also have a large sports centre in the heart of campus, where students can take part in exercise classes, swimming sessions, work out in the gym or enjoy a game of badminton with friends.
We want to give our students the experience of a lifetime, so there are a range of opportunities for them to study and work abroad during their time at Salford.
You can find out more about the international opportunities we have on offer.
When your applicant applies to university, we are unable to provide any information about their application to you as their parent, carer or supporter, without the expressed permission of the applicant.
This is in keeping with the Data Protection Act 2018, and all universities operate in the same way.
We appreciate that this can be quite a challenging transition, and if your applicant would like you to discuss their application with us, they will need to provide consent to us on enquiries@salford.ac.uk .
If you have any further questions or queries, our Enquiries team are available to contact by phone or email from 10:00 to 16:00, Monday to Friday :

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/parents/understanding-ucas:
If the student you support is going to be applying to study at university for the first time, it’s likely that they will be applying via UCAS .
UCAS stands for Universities and Colleges Admissions Service, and is used by students to apply to their chosen universities for consideration for studying a particular subject.
UCAS also provide more details about the opportunities for post-16 education and training on the UCAS website .
The below steps outline the key activities during the UCAS applicant cycle.
The student should visit UCAS fairs, talk to teachers, careers advisers, friends and you, to help them make a informed decision about the universities they want to apply to, and the course they want to study.
Open Days are a great way for prospective students to get a feel of the university, talk to university staff and students, and explore other options such as accommodation.
This is the deadline that guarantees that your student’s UCAS application will be considered by the institutions they have applied to for 2026 entry.
Many courses will accept late applications after this date, if there are spaces left.
Your student may begin to receive offers from the universities they've applied to within a few weeks.
Don't worry if offers take longer than this - each institution will have different admissions processes.
If your student has been made an offer from Salford, they'll be invited to attend an Offer Holder Day to learn more about the course they have applied for.
Offer Holder Days differ to Open Days, as they are tailored to each applicant, to allow prospective students to experience a taster of what life will be like studying at our University.
The day may include subject-specific taster sessions, campus tours and the chance to visit our accommodation, as well as ask any questions they may have.
Start the Student Finance application sooner rather than later, to ensure your student receives the correct amount of money to support their studies in time for the start of the academic year.
If your student has received and accepted an offer from the University of Salford, we start taking applications for accommodation in the spring.
If you attend an Open Day or Offer Holder Day, there will be an opportunity to take a look around the accommodation we have to offer.
We'll email all applicants when our student accommodation opens for bookings.
We encourage students to apply for student finance as soon as possible to ensure their finances are in place for the new academic year.
By 31 March, your student should have received their offers.
If they applied by the January deadline, they must make their firm and insurance choices by 6 May 2026, otherwise UCAS will reject all offers by default.
Your student will receive their results in mid-August (students on some courses may get them before this date).
If they have achieved the grades they needed, we’ll automatically send confirmation of their place at Salford to UCAS.
If not, there may still be a chance that we’ll accept them through Clearing.
Find out more about this process on the UCAS website.
Once your student’s place has been confirmed, we’ll start to send communications detailing everything they’ll need to know and do before joining us.
It’s now time for them to start their exciting new life as a university student!

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/academic-facilities:
We have a long history of providing people with the tools they need to succeed, and we've got ambitious plans for the future as our campus continues to evolve and grow.
Upcoming plans include the building of a dedicated Greater Manchester Institute of Technology (GMIoT) building on our Peel Park campus, and a brand new health and wellbeing hub on our Frederick Road campus.
The School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology offers a range of industry standard facilities across our MediaCity and New Adelphi sites.
MediaCity is at the heart of the UK's media and digital industries.
Our students and researchers have access to a range of facilities including: state-of-the-art TV and radio studios, craft edit suites, audio production suites and a journalism centre.
New Adelphi is home to music, performance, art and design subjects, providing a rich environment for creativity, arts and culture.
Facilities include: a 350 capacity theatre, screen acting studios, voice acting studios, specialist workshops, photography studios, recording studios and a large gallery space.
Salford Business School is located at the heart of the University’s Peel Park campus.
Teaching facilities include Lady Hale and Chapman buildings, which offer stylish modern spaces with lecture theatres equipped with the very latest technology and large screen displays.
Lady Hale is also the home for the mock courtroom where the mooting team hone their skills in case presentation and debate.
Throughout campus, there is a choice of individual study areas as well as communal learning and breakout spaces for group working.
And don't forget to check out the library; it'll be an important place for you.
The School of Health and Society is home to state-of-the-art facilities that enable students to develop their skills under the supervision of qualified practitioners, and researchers to pursue their area of study.
Facilities include: a clinical gait analysis laboratory, counselling and psychotherapy suites, a human performance laboratory, a podiatry clinic, a prosthetics and orthotics laboratory, state-of-the-art simulation suites and a sports injury clinic.
The School of Science, Engineering and Environment provide facilities which reflect the equipment used in industry, giving you the chance to develop the necessary skills for your career.
Our audio and visual facilities at MediaCity and our world-class anechoic chamber provide the professional specification equipment.
Aeronautical and mechanical engineering students can learn in our specialist labs in our SEE Building which was built in 2022, including a flight simulator and wind turbines.
Our Bodmer Laboratory gives you access to the newest technologies, helping you to keep up with the latest innovation and discovery.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-benefits-and-services:
Your Salford journey doesn't end at graduation.
As a Salford graduate, you have lifelong access to a range of invaluable benefits and services from the university, any time you need them.
From Salford is our exclusive networking and mentoring hub for University of Salford alumni designed to give you the opportunity to support each other, share career tips and expertise, as well as access a range of online journals.
You can continue using the on-campus libraries as a Salford alum.
You will need to present a Library membership card to gain access, which you can request by visiting the Library pages and filling in the membership form.
The online form will ask you for your alumni ID number, which you can find on your regular alumni emails or we can provide you.
Please contact the Alumni Office at alumni@salford.ac.uk .
Your library access card will give you access to the library buildings, as well as the ability to withdraw up to 4 books at any one time.
We are currently unable to offer full access to library computers, printing, or online resources in the Library, however, you can access a selection of online journals and e-books at our online alumni hub From Salford .
For further information, please contact the Library via askus@salford.ac.uk , +44 (0)161 295 5535 .
Continue your studies at Salford and enjoy a 20% loyalty discount on a range of postgraduate courses.
You receive support with your career for life.
Find out how Careers and Enterprise can continue to support you after graduation.
This includes things like:
You can request a replacement degree certificate and transcript from our Student Records department.
We offer graduates who completed their studies from 2011 continued use of your University email address for the rest of your life.
Our Acceptable Use Policy requires you to log in every 90 days in order to retain access to your account, but you can always reactivate it by contacting the Digital IT Service Desk (details below).
The Acceptable Use Policy continues to apply to your use of your email account.
If you have forgotten your password, there is an option to reset this on the login page.
If you experience any difficulties accessing your account, please contact the Digital IT Service Desk: digital-itservicedesk@salford.ac.uk or call directly on +44 (0)161 295 2444 .
As a graduate you are entitled to discounted alumni membership rates at our sports centre, which features a 25 metre swimming pool, sauna and spa, a fitness studio, sports hall, squash courts and climbing wall.
We love nothing more than welcoming you back onto campus and supporting you as you take a trip down memory lane through a campus tour or reunion event.
The School of Health and Society offers a range of clinics and services at a reduced rate for alumni.
These clinics enable students to practice new skills in a safe environment under the supervision of a qualified practitioner.
If you have lost touch with friends from your university days we can help you find them.
Find out how we can support your business, whether you need start up support, training and CPD, knowledge transfer or to recruit from our student and alumni community.
You can hire a range of facilities and event management services at Salford at a 10% reduced rate as a graduate.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/alumni/stay-connected:
Use the form below to keep your contact details up to date, request your alumni ID number for library membership, and share your communications preferences.
Now is the time to opt-in to receive the best that the University of Salford has to offer.
Our alumni, donors, supporters and followers mean everything to us.
We want to be able to bring our community benefits and services, news, networking opportunities and info about our wonderful fundraising work.
In order to tailor what you receive from Alumni Engagement and Development via email, you can:
You can update your details or contact preferences in relation to Alumni Engagement & Development activities at any time by contacting us via alumni@salford.ac.uk or +44 (0)161 295 4265 .
Any information you provide to the university will be securely held in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018, the Data Protection Policy and the Office of Alumni Engagement and Development’s Privacy Policy .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/alumni/contact-us:
The Alumni Engagement and Development team is dedicated to retaining a lifelong relationship with our graduates and supporting you throughout your post-University life and career.
Philanthropy, Alumni and Supporter Engagement
Room 401, Crescent House
University of Salford
Manchester
M5 4WT
Follow us on social media:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-events:
You can stay connected with the university by attending one of our regular events.
Please ensure your details are kept up to date and check this website regularly to see our upcoming events.
We're planning some exciting events and opportunities to help you reconnect with the alumni community.
Stay tuned for updates once everything is confirmed.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-achievement-awards:
Our annual Alumni Achievement Awards are an opportunity to honour and recognise alumni who achieve excellence in their field and inspire others.
Our alumni truly represent our Salford values and demonstrate how our alumni community drives positive change in all sectors and across the globe.
We accept nominations made for someone else and self-nominations.
The awards are open to all alumni from the University of Salford and all of our predecessor institutions.
We particularly welcome nominations about female alumni and those from minoritised ethnic groups, as in the past they have been under-represented.
The call for nominations is now closed and the winners for 2025 will be announced soon.
Read all about the fantastic individuals we awarded in the 2024 Alumni Achievement Awards
From healthcare to business, charity work to the arts - our award winners from 2023 embody the values of the University in everything they do.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/impact:
For over 120 years, the University of Salford has played a significant role in driving social mobility across Salford and Greater Manchester as we understand that whilst talent is everywhere, opportunities are not.
We are incredibly proud to present the philanthropy in action at Salford during 2022, for it is thanks to the extraordinary generosity of our donors and supporters that we have been able to create a vast number of life-changing programmes for our students, staff, and wider community.
From everyone at Salford, we would like to thank every individual, industry partner, and charitable trust and foundation that has helped us to develop incredible opportunities for our community, we hope you enjoy exploring the innovative projects we've launched below.
As an institution, we are committed to driving social mobility in our region, in helping to raise the aspirations of young people.
With the encouragement of our supporters, we have continued our work in this area and ranked 6th in England, and 1st in the North West, on the Social Mobility Index for 2022 .
Each of our student support programmes are funded entirely by our wonderful donor community and it is through their generosity that we are able to create an outstanding student experience for those at Salford whilst also helping those who need it most to remain in higher education.
We need your help now, more than ever, to support our students as they strive to achieve their dreams.
Whether you are able to donate a small amount every month or a one-off financial gift, your generosity will have an incredible impact across the university.
To find out more about how you can support our students, please contact Sophie Thorp , Strategic Development Manager.
Universities are often unable to financially support projects outside of core learning, but thanks to the incredible donations of our friends, we are able to fund amazing initiatives which not only enrich the student experience but enable us to extend our reach into the community, to have a positive impact on the lives of people across the region, from providing educational support to access to health resources.
At the University of Salford, we take pride in our innovative research environment, welcoming students and academics from around the world to deliver research with real world impact.
With thanks to our donors, we are able to provide our community with access to industry-standard equipment and innovative spaces, whilst also supporting extraordinary research taking place at both a national and international level.
As a university, we celebrate diversity and are committed to creating equality of opportunity for all within our community as we recognise the importance of our role in helping to develop the next generation of industry-ready graduates.
We are extremely proactive in widening participation across the institution, in particular the support of Black and Minority Ethnic (BAME) students.
The University of Salford is a member of the Race Equality Charter (REC) , an initiative led by Advance HE to improve the representation, progression, and success of BAME colleagues and students, providing a framework to identify and reflect on institutional and cultural barriers standing in the way of minority ethnic colleagues and students.
The University is also a pioneer of breaking down barriers for female students and colleagues, and through the support of our incredible friends and industry partners, we are able to develop a range of initiatives for women across STEM and built environment-related subjects.
The University is committed to breaking down entry barriers for women considering studying a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM) related subject.
With the help of our friends and industry partners, we developed a mentoring programme for our female students, to provide them with an insight into the industry and demonstrate the important role they can play in driving future innovation.
The Industry Advice Scheme is our institution-wide mentoring programme, open to all students, though we actively encourage applications from students from a BAME background, students with disabilities, and care experienced students.
The BAME Futures Mentoring Programme launched in 2021 with TalkTalk, connecting TalkTalk’s BAME employee network ‘Empower’ with twelve students from the University.
Following the success of the six-month pilot, the Programme will relaunch in January 2022, with Capgemini and Peninsula joining TalkTalk as our industry partners, providing more students with this extraordinary opportunity.
The University collaborated with Common Purpose to deliver two Future Leader Experiences in 2021, bringing together a diverse range of students with senior leaders from difference industries, giving them the opportunity to further their understanding of the challenges leaders face.
We welcomed senior leaders from a range of organisations, including Kellogg’s, Lloyds Banking, Co-op Group, Salford City Council, Laing O’Rourke, and Greater Manchester Police.
Thank you to every individual, organisation, charitable trust and foundation that has supported us this year, we can't wait to see what the next year brings!
If you would like to get involved in any of our existing programmes or discuss the development of a new initiative, please contact Sophie Thorp , Strategic Development Manager.
As traditional sources of funding are unable to support a range of projects that have a tremendous impact across our University community, we need your help.
There are a range of unbelievable projects that require funding across the University, and whether you are able to gift on a monthly or singular basis, your donation will be put to work right away and have an incredible impact at Salford.
You can make a difference today with a monthly, quarterly, or annual gift.
Major Gifts are often used to help establish scholarships, bursaries, and prizes.
Provide invaluable support for a range of projects across the University through community fundraising.
Whether you're in Canada or USA, you can still support vital projects at Salford.
Help to change a life by funding a student's degree or facility.
Would you like to become a part of our campus for years to come?
Whether you choose to name a tree in Chapman Square, claim a space in our amphitheatre, or join comedian Peter Kay and director Mike Leigh with a named seat in the New Adelphi Theatre, you can leave your mark at Salford by making a gift to one of our worthy projects.
For over 120 years, we have been a driving force for social mobility, knowledge, learning, and regeneration in Salford and we have evolved and grown to meet the changing needs of the communities around us.
As you have read, it is thanks to the philanthropic support we receive that we are able to provide our students with transformative financial awards, invest in our campus to create a world-class learning environment, and advocate for the wellbeing and future of our communities.
If you would like to extend your charitable giving beyond your lifetime and provide invaluable support for the next generation at Salford, you can make a legacy donation .
There are a number of ways you can leave a gift to the University in your will, whether you choose to leave a specific amount or item, and we will work with you and your family to ensure that your personal donation is used in the way you wish.
We are truly grateful to all who have chosen to remember the University in their will, and thank you if you are considering this type of gift for you will be supporting the students, researchers, and innovators of tomorrow.
The Salford Giving Blog features a range of stories from across the campus to demonstrate how our donors are making a real difference to our University community, including a host of case studies and interviews with our beneficiaries.
One of the ways we have captured the incredible difference our donors, volunteers, and friends make at the University of Salford has been through our annual Impact supplement.
The publication features the highlights of how their generosity has helped to change lives across our university over the years.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/gifts-in-wills:
For over 120 years, we have been a driving force for knowledge, learning, social mobility and regeneration in Salford; since beginning life as the Royal Technical College in 1896 to becoming a university in 1967, we’ve evolved and grown to meet the changing needs of the communities around us.
Every year, we offer a number of scholarships and bursaries to young people who might otherwise be discouraged from higher education and we’ve invested in our campus to create world-class learning environments that will ensure future students have the best university experience possible.
None of this would be possible, however, without the philanthropic support that we receive.
By making a legacy donation, you can extend your charitable giving beyond your lifetime and provide invaluable support to the next generation of Salford students.
There are a number of ways you can leave a gift in your will to the University of Salford; you may choose to leave a specific amount of money, a specific item or leave anything from 1% to 100% of your remaining estate to the University.
Any amount that you donate will go towards safeguarding the future of the University and our students, by funding bursaries and scholarships, investing in our facilities, or supporting ground-breaking research projects.
We are truly grateful to our alumni, staff and friends who have already chosen to remember the University in their will, and if you are considering this type of gift, thank you.
Every gift of any size will make a real difference.
We understand that a gift in your will is a very personal gesture, and we can work with you and your family to ensure that your donation is used in the way you would wish.
If you would like to speak to us about leaving a gift, or to request our brochure for more information, please contact Nic Whyley , Senior Philanthropy Manager.
Funding the future with a gift in your will is easy.
If you have already decided to leave a gift in your will to the University, you could use the suggested wording we have drafted below when discussing with your solicitor.
This can be included in a new will or as an amendment.
A typical form of wording for your will might be:
"I give to the University of Salford (registered as an exempt charity with Inland Revenue XN7329), [donation] to be used for the general purposes of the University.
I declare that the receipt of the authorised officer of the University of Salford shall be good and sufficient discharge to my Executors.”
You may wish to direct your legacy to benefit a specific area of the University, such as student support, a particular research area or to fund a specific piece of equipment.
We are happy to talk to you about this and work out the best option for you.
However, while we will always try to carry out your wishes as closely as possible, we recommend that you avoid expressing your wishes as a binding obligation.
This will allow us the flexibility to use our discretion to make the best possible use of your gift, should circumstances change in the future.
The University of Salford was granted the status of an exempt charity by a Statutory Instrument passed in May 1967.
It may be possible for you to limit your exposure to inheritance tax by leaving a legacy to institutions with charitable status such as the University of Salford.
For more information about inheritance tax and its application to your situation, you can contact HM Revenue and Customs or seek professional advice.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/major-gifts:
Major Level Gifts are an important lifeline to our students here at the University of Salford as they can go towards our Scholarship Programme.
A scholarship can be the defining factor for many students on whether to join or stay at university as they provide financial support to those most in need, meaning recipients are able to continue their studies with the assurance of being able to pay for food, rent, bills, and study materials.
Some of our donors are able to make gifts of £3,000 and, at this level, donors may choose to direct their gift towards an existing programme or to establish their own scholarship programme in their name, focused on a particular area of interest.
We are grateful to our growing community of donors for their long-term commitment to our students and University, including MGF and Santander .
We are extremely honoured that our community of donors support a range of life-changing scholarships and innovative research across the University of Salford.
For an insight into the incredible philanthropy in action at Salford, take a look at our donor case studies below.
Our Anonymous Donor has kindly gifted scholarships to talented, creative students at the University of Salford.
Salford alumnus, David Tupman graciously provides scholarships for undergraduate engineering students from a low-income background.
The family of Gerry Mason have kindheartedly awarded several engineering scholarships to continue his legacy.
Nic Humphries, Salford alumnus, is generously gifting scholarships for students completing STEM-related degrees.
An Anonymous Donor has generously awarded scholarships to undergraduate engineering students in recognition of their hard work.
Peter Casey's extraordinary donation has provided many students studying a Built Environment degree with scholarships.
Thanks to the charitable donations of our donor community, we established the Salford Advantage Scholarship to provide students with the greatest need a non-repayable award.
AECOM have kindly sponsored a scholarship to support women in construction.
AJ Bell have generously provided students completing a computing degree at the University of Salford with incredible opportunities.
To help increase the progression of students in Quantity Surveying, we have partnered with Decipher to launch a new scholarship.
MGF has helped us to empower the next generation of engineers through scholarships and real-world experiences.
The Morson Group has provided our students and staff with extraordinary experiences, from scholarships to the creation of the Maker Space.
TWf launched a scholarship for engineering students at Salford to provide both financial and academic support.
The Coles-Medlock Foundation has supported the innovative research of the Salford Institute for Dementia and Centre of Doctoral Training in Prosthetics and Orthotics.
The Haskel Family Foundation has charitably supported the development of the Salford Institute for Dementia (SIfD).
We are grateful for the invaluable, artistic opportunities the Haworth Charitable Trust continues to provide for our students.
Thanks to The Lady Monica Cockfield Memorial Trust, students from the School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology have secured life-changing scholarships and participated in innovative projects.
If you would like to discuss making a Major Gift to the University of Salford, please contact Nicola Whyley (Strategic Development Manager): n.whyley@salford.ac.uk
If you would like to discuss making a Major Gift to the University of Salford, please contact Nicola Whyley (Strategic Development Manager):

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/regular-giving:
Help us fund the future, it’s now easier than ever to fund the future.
If you would like to make a difference today, there are a variety of ways that your philanthropy can be put to work.
A monthly, quarterly or annual gift helps the University plan for the future and reduce on administration costs.
Donate now
To discuss your support further please contact the Senior Philanthropy Manager, Nic Whyley .
If you would prefer to make a gift via a gift form and would like to post it back to us, just let us know.
All cheques are made payable to ‘University of Salford’.
When you are happy with your donation, you can drop us a line at:
FAO The Philanthropy Team Crescent House The University of Salford Salford M5 4PF

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/community:
If you would like to discuss community fundraising, whether it's a sponsored event, workplace fundraising, or a coffee morning, please get in touch.
Community fundraising can provide valuable support for a variety of initiatives across the University, including Salford Institute for Dementia, and student support.
If you would like to speak to us about community fundraising, please contact Claire Green via c.l.green@salford.ac.uk or +44 (0)161 295 3432.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/giving-from-outside-the-uk:
The University of Salford is recognised as a Canadian Prescribed University by the Canadian Revenue Agency.
This designation allows our Canadian supporters to receive official receipts for tax-effective giving.
Similarly, our supporters in the United States can contribute through the British Schools and Universities Foundation (BSUF), which provides US tax receipts for donations.
Whether you reside in Canada or the USA, your contributions can significantly impact our university.
Below, you will find detailed instructions on how to make your donation and ensure it is tax-effective.
Your support helps us continue to provide exceptional education and research opportunities.
Supporting us from Canada
The University of Salford is now registered with the Canadian Revenue Agency as a Canadian Prescribed University.
This means that we can issue official receipts to supporters living in Canada and enable tax-effective giving.
If you decide to make a contribution to the University of Salford, you can give via any of the methods explained in the leaflet enclosed and request a receipt via email to alumni@salford.ac.uk .
Supporting us from USA
As we do not have a base in the United States, all gifts must be made through the British Schools and Universities Foundation (BSUF) .
They are able to issue a US tax receipt for donations.
They meet quarterly to agree the distribution of funds and therefore as a donor you need to express a preference that the donation goes to the University of Salford.
To make a donation to us through BSUF please follow the steps below.
The BSUF prefer donations by cheque if possible as they incur a 3% fee for all credit card donations.
For your employer to match this gift, please obtain a matching gift form from them and enclose it in the same envelope as your donation.
The British Schools and Universities Foundation 641 Lexington Avenue, 15th Fl.
New York, NY, 10022-4503

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/naming-opportunities:
Your place on campus
People have named their place on campus as a special way to mark graduations, birthdays, weddings, or special achievements; or just to provide a unique gift.
It is an ideal way to mark your own or your family’s place within Salford’s history, allowing you to be part of our campus for years to come.
Have a look around some of the current naming opportunities on campus below...
Join us, take your place on campus and reveal a world of opportunity…
If you would like to speak to us about range of recognition levels and naming opportunities, please contact Nic Whyley , Senior Philanthropy Manager.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/trusts-foundations:
At Salford, we are proud that our students come from all walks of life, with varying experiences that enrich both the University and wider communities of Salford and Greater Manchester.
We also strive to provide a level playing field for all our students, regardless of their background, and raise their aspirations for the future.
Charitable trusts and foundations can enable students to learn, discover, and be curious through the support of:
Scholarships and bursaries
Investigation of cutting-edge research and globally significant projects
Improvement of teaching facilities and capital builds
We know that studying at university comes at a cost that some cannot afford and that the tuition fees and associated living costs can often deter talented individuals from taking the step into Higher Education.
Financial support can be life-changing for a student, especially those studying at the University of Salford as:
25% of our students are from low income families
99% of our students are state educated
50% of our students originate from Greater Manchester
Scholarships and bursaries are vital for students that are struggling to make ends meet and can prevent them from dropping out of university.
Support from a trust and foundation can significantly improve a student's attainment, ease their financial pressures, and help to build their confidence.
They also provide students with opportunities to learn and engage with fields of study and industry areas that otherwise have a low representation from certain backgrounds.
For example, scholarships and bursaries can provide the step up needed to support more female students into studying STEM subjects.
The University of Salford aims to be at the forefront of change to improve diversity and inclusion in disciplines across Higher Education and industry, and with the support of trusts and foundations we can continue to build a pipeline of talented individuals and role models to inspire future generations.
We are extremely grateful for the invaluable artistic experiences the Haworth Charitable Trust continues to provide for our students.
Programmes like the Haworth Life Drawing Series and the Haworth Figurative Art Graduate Scholarship enables our students to develop their professional practice through access to high-quality materials and the opportunity to experiment.
With thanks to the support of the Lady Monica Cockfield Memorial Trust, students from the School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology have had the opportunity to secure life-changing scholarships and participate in innovative projects to enhance their studies and future employability.
We remain committed to the wider Salford community by utilising our research expertise and encouraging students to engage with projects that benefit residents, the community and businesses.
Our academic staff are experts in their fields, regularly undertaking exciting and innovative research.
Trusts and foundations help the University to advance industry knowledge and insights across core priority areas, and we have a plethora of cutting-edge projects in the pipeline across environmental sustainability, robotics and autonomous vehicles, science and emerging technologies, technical skill development, arts and culture, and industry collaboration.
The generosity of the Coles-Medlock Foundation has supported innovative research at Salford through donations to the Salford Institute for Dementia (SIfD) and the Centre of Doctoral Training in Prosthetics and Orthotics, aiding our mission to become a leading institution of pioneering scientific research.
Thanks to the charitable donations from the Haskel Family Foundation, the Salford Institute for Dementia (SIfD) has been able to continue their extraordinary work in creating a positive and supportive environment for people living with dementia.
Whatever your area of interest and whether you would like to make a one-off or multi-year donation, we are confident your support will go far at the University of Salford, having a profound impact on student lives, contributing to break-through research, developing the campus and facilities, and engaging with the local community.
Through your support our students can become unstoppable.
If you are a trustee of a charitable trust or foundation or are in the process of setting one up and would like to know more about how you can have an impact on the University of Salford and change lives, please email Sophie Ball (Strategic Development Manager): S.L.Ball1@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/causes-students:
Covid-19 has dramatically altered our students’ university experience, significantly changing the Salford they know, and the professional world they will join as graduates.
At the University of Salford we are committed to supporting talented students to succeed in Higher Education.
With the help of alumni and supporters, we provide bursaries and funds to help students who may otherwise be deterred from study, to reach their full potential.
We need to do all we can to support our students, and we need your help.
We are acutely aware that this pandemic has affected everyone, and that many of our supporters are unable to give at present.
However, if you are in the position to do so, you can support our students by making a donation to the University's new Believe scholarships and bursaries fund or to Student Hardship, and we can put your generosity to work straight away.
We would never want a short-term financial challenge to prevent a student from completing their course, and the Student Hardship Fund can be the difference between a student pursuing their academic and professional dreams or having to put their studies on hold.
Thanks to the generosity of our alumni, supporters, and friends, the Student Hardship Fund can offer a financial lifeline to those experiencing exceptional financial difficulties through no fault of their own through non-repayable awards.
The Fund is intended to help students experiencing hardship due to ongoing financial difficulties, including essential living costs, or unexpected financial emergencies.
To help address the rising demand for financial and emotional support amongst students as we continue to navigate the Covid-19 pandemic, we recently launched the Revive Grants.
The Grants will address areas such as mental health, wellbeing, and employability, providing our students with valuable opportunities and the skills to thrive and not just survive.
Now, more than ever, we need your support to help our students remain in education and realise their dreams.
The Believe Scholarships and Bursaries fund will allow us to attract, retain and progress talented students, regardless of their financial background.
Many of our students work part time to supplement their income whilst at university, and young people are twice as likely to work in hospitality and retail which have been badly hit by the economic effects of the pandemic.
The uncertainty for the future experienced by our students throughout the pandemic was perhaps felt most keenly by our care-experienced students.
The University of Salford is proud that for over 10 years we have been at the forefront of supporting our care leaver students.
Being care-experienced not only has implications on the support network around these students, but it also has financial repercussions.
Together, we need to make sure that care leavers have all the support they need in place to access and succeed in higher education.
At the University of Salford, we are proud to be champions for the under-represented.
Our Believe scholarships and bursary programme aims to support those who need it most to realise their full potential and not let finances limit their impact on research, industry and the world.
The fund provides £1,000 bursary for each year of an undergraduate course.
This not only provides a safety net of support, but also a vote of confidence to the recipients that your university believes in their abilities to succeed.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/causes-campus-and-community:
Your support can help us here at the University of Salford to make an impact across campus and also out in the wider community.
For examples of the projects we currently run, read below.
Getting a job.
Students are increasingly aware that employers look for more than good grades when recruiting to their workforce in today’s challenging job market.
Employers expect graduates to have a well-rounded university experience including plenty of opportunities for personal development outside of the core activities of teaching and research.
Sadly, university budgets are often unable to cover opportunities that are designed exclusively to enrich student’s CVs.
Our Campus Initiatives fund is entirely funded by alumni, donors and friends, and seeks to provide grants of up to £5,000 to student-centric projects that not only benefit the student experience, but also provide the participants and beneficiaries with graduate skills that will enrich their CV and career prospects after graduation.
Past beneficiaries of the Campus Initiatives fund have gone on roles in their chosen sector, and credit the experience that they had running a project with Campus Initiatives’ support as instrumental in being set up for success in an application for that role.
Please read on to learn about some of the fantastic projects that we have funded in recent years.
The aim of this project was to enhance safety and security for campus users through the purchase of two electronically assisted bikes, equipped with a defibrillator and first aid equipment.
The bikes meant that the security team have been able to extend their range of patrol and significantly increase response time.
By increasing visibility across campus, this project also enhances the ability of the security team to keep students safe.
Funding from Campus Initiatives allowed students from the school of Health and Society to organize a one-day conference, offering a range of conferences, presentations and seminars exploring contemporary occupational therapy practice.
Students involved in the running of the conference were able to gain a range of skills in planning and marketing.
The conference itself also prepared students for employment by creating networking opportunities with industry professionals and maximizing the potential for real world learning.
Proposed by the University of Salford Business School, the aim of this project was to connect female undergraduate students to female mentors within industry.
The scheme successfully matched 20 students with mentors, helping them to network within industry, make connections and gain useful career advice as they make the transition from education into the world of work.
Our school days.
The time that we spend at school is widely regarded as our formative years.
It is when we learn not only lots of lessons in the classroom, but also make decisions about our future, and learn about practical responsibilities we have once we enter the adult world.
But what would happen if you didn’t have a support network to learn these life lessons from?
Inspiring Salford is the University’s project that aims to unlock the possibilities of higher education to school students in the community.
This year’s Inspiring Salford initiative, Success4Life, is the next step in the University’s mission in championing the experience of young people in the care of their local authority.
This eight-week programme aims to equip young people with life skills that might not be shared with participants through any other channels.
The initiative, open to looked after children, includes taster session in money management and budgeting, as well as conquering their fears – all within a university environment.
Thanks to Success4Life, social workers and foster carers who have nominated young people to attend have seen a significant difference in the young people’s approach to learning and breaking down perceived barriers – with many young people citing that thanks to the programme, they see higher education as a possibility in their academic futures.
This project is the most rewarding that we get to deliver during the year.
It’s great to see the development of the learners as they progress through the project and the confidence they gain as a result.
They go from quiet, shy and unassuming children to outgoing, happy and confident young people, ready to take on the world!
- Carl Gleeson, Project Lead for Success4Life
To make a regular gift to Campus Initiatives or Inspiring Salford, follow the link below, or feel free to give us a call to discuss supporting student success.
The University's mission as an educational institution means that it is keen to provide a supportive context in which all students and staff of any belief system, religious, philosophical and cultural background, can explore new ideas and experiences; and engage critically with each other in a safe and respectful learning environment.
The purpose-made centre is open to everyone and offers unique spaces for group worship, private prayer, personal reflection, social activities, pastoral support and relaxation right here on campus.
The Faith Centre reflects the University’s continuing commitment to support the student experience, and our extensive faith-based facilities are a rare gem for UK universities.
It offers a unique space for those of faith or who follow a religion, those who are questioning / seeking / agnostic or prefer not to define their spirituality in a specific way, and those who are not religious or have no faith, and to build positive relationships between all groups.
We want to make sure that this space of sanctuary is available for future generations of Salford students, friends and members of the community.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/causes-arts-and-culture:
The University of Salford supports a number of scholarships and projects within our Arts and Culture offer, you can find out more below.
At the University of Salford, we recognise that the transition between training and employment following graduation is an extremely difficult period for many performing artists.
Financial and time pressures during the first twelve months after graduation can mean that performance graduates are unable to continue to develop their practice and professional networks.
All too often this means talented graduates must compromise or abandon their practice all together.
To address this, we have listened to performance graduates and developed a package of support, particularly suited to graduating performance-based students.
With your help, the new Performance Graduate Scholarship Programme will allow recent performance graduates the money, time and resources to experiment and take risks with their creative practice within a supportive framework, with a £3,000 package of financial support.
The programme is designed to provide recent graduates with an opportunity to develop their skills and professional experience, and includes: a professional development award; practice space in the New Adelphi building; access to mentoring and coaching from professional artists; and a showcase of their performance piece in a New Adelphi Theatre space.
Funded thanks to the generosity of alumni, supporters and friends, the University can offer development opportunities otherwise unavailable to many following graduation.
This fund can be the difference between an artist being able to continue to pursue their professional dreams – regardless of circumstance – or having to put those dreams on hold and not fulfil their potential.
We want to ensure that we can be there for our talented students as they venture into the professional world.
The Library.
Many of us have spent endless hours in a library, getting lost in the world of academia, knowledge and enrichment.
A well-equipped library is essential to supporting student endeavours, but how does a traditional library diversify their offer and become flexible to a growing student population and changing ways in which students learn?
This year, we are delighted to support the University’s library with their electronic resources.
After the completion of renovations to the Clifford Whitworth Library to support a greater number of students, there is the opportunity to grow their electronic offer.
As many students undertake part time/distance learning courses, or commute into university, this essential growth of the library catalogue that can be accessed offsite will be instrumental in supporting student success.
As e-books can be accessed anywhere in the world, and can be accessed by multiple users at a time, students can complete their assignments whenever and wherever they are most productive.
With help from our supporters, we will be able to unlock the possibilities of academia to greater numbers.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/causes-health-and-science:
The University of Salford supports a number of scholarships and projects within our Health and Science offer.
You can find out more below.
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Maths (STEM) are not traditionally areas where women lead, and at the University of Salford, we are determined to change that.
Gender balance is better for everyone; individuals, businesses and the economy.
Women and girls want to make a difference to their world.
A STEM career is an ideal way to see them fulfil that potential.
But we must encourage them into STEM careers, and that needs collaboration from schools, parents, universities and industry.
To address this, we have developed a package of support, particularly suited to meet this need, and with your help we can reveal a world of opportunity.
The new Women in STEM Scholarship Programme will encourage women to apply for Undergraduate study in Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths courses at our newly unified School of Science, Engineering and Environment.
The programme is designed to provide financial support for talented women to be the STEM leaders of the future.
Funded thanks to the generosity of alumni, supporters and friends, this fund can be the difference between a student applying to University and remaining here to pursue their professional dreams – regardless of circumstance – or having to put those dreams on hold and not fulfil their potential.
We want to ensure that we can be there for our talented students as they make their way in the world.
It is thought that there are 850,000 with Dementia in the UK, and this number is set to rise to 1 million by 2025*, there has never been a more prudent time for the Institute’s work to continue.
(*Alzheimer’s Society, https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/about-us/news-and-media/facts-media).
The Salford Institute for Dementia works directly with local dementia sufferers and their carers, ensuring we are able to pass our knowledge on to our wide network of policy-makers, care home providers, healthcare practitioners and community groups.
Funded entirely by the generosity of our alumni, supporters and friends, the Salford Institute for Dementia’s Hub run monthly gardening and music clubs, as well as drop-in café sessions to provide those living with Dementia with some support, advice and a place to go and have a chat with those who are going through the same challenges.
These have become a social lifeline to our associates and members of the community here in the North West, as well as a fantastic opportunity to join together and learn new skills.
If you would like to help to improve the lives of those living with dementia today, please make a donation to support our vital work and improve the care and support provided to people living with dementia, their carers and family.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/donate-now/naming-opportunities-donation-form:
In choosing to name a space on campus, you can chose to direct your support to one of our priority areas:
Over the last couple of years, Covid-19 has had a profound impact on the lives of people around the world, but we are immensely proud of the support we have been able to provide for our students.
The global pandemic has highlighted the increasing prevalence of student hardship, which has continued to rise as we all face the current cost of living crisis.
We are determined to help reduce the financial pressure on young people as they pursue their academic and professional dreams, but we need your support.
To equip our students with everything they need to thrive and not just survive, your support will allow us to create grants for projects addressing areas such as mental health, wellbeing, and employability.
With your help, our Student Hardship - Revive Grants help us to provide a lifeline to those experiencing exceptional financial difficulties through no fault of their own.
At Salford, we are proud that for over 10 years we have been at the forefront of supporting our care leaver students.
As care leavers often feel like they won’t fit in at university, our Believe Scholarship provides a safety net of support, but also a vote of confidence that we believe in their ability to succeed.
Through Believe , students most in need receive a £1,000 bursary for the three academic years of an undergraduate programme.
We are also committed to encouraging women to study STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Maths) programmes in our School of Science, Engineering and Environment.
The Women in STEM Scholarship programme is designed to provide financial support to talented women, to encourage them to be the STEM leaders of the future.
Scholarships can be the difference between a student applying to university and pursuing their professional dreams or having to put those dreams on hold and not fulfil their potential.
You can help us to be there for our talented students as they make their way in the world.
For our University, it’s important that we continue to support our students as they venture into the professional world, but to do this, we need your help.
Your generosity can offer development opportunities otherwise unavailable to many following graduation.
The Performance Graduate Scholarship programme will provide recent performance graduates with the money, time, and resources to continue experimenting and taking risks with their creative practice, offering them a supportive framework with a £3,000 package of support.
This fund can be the difference between an artist being able to pursue their professional aspirations, regardless of circumstance, or having to put those on hold for a more secure role outside of the creative industry.
You can help us to be there for our early graduates as they make their way in the world.
We really hope that you are able to support our work through any of these priority areas, but you can also choose to support Salford students in a way that allows us to be the most responsive to their needs, through the area of Greatest Need fund.
On receipt of your gift, we will contact you to discuss your inscription.
For more information on payment methods, on how you can make a difference, or to ask any questions about your support, please contact Nic Whyley , Senior Philanthropy Manager.
Please note that upon completion of the form below and clicking 'checkout' you will be directed to a Blackbaud Payment Services page to complete your gift.
The University bears the cost of the Office of Philanthropy, Alumni and Supporter Engagement staff and all of its fundraising activities.
donations are not used to meet these costs - 100% of any philanthropic gifts received by the University of Salford are directed to the area which the donor chooses to support.
Please contact us to change your communication preferences or to change the way we use your data via email: alumni@salford.ac.uk or visit communication preferences .
Thank you for considering a naming opportunity at the University of Salford.
Please familiarise yourself with the terms and conditions for naming a space on campus:
For further information, please contact Claire Green, Development Manager - Individual Giving, via +44 (0)161 295 3432 , or email c.l.green@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/giving/our-donor-promise:
Without our generous and dedicated family of donors and supporters, we wouldn't be where we are today.
You choose to put your faith and generosity in us, and to gain your confidence and ensure your trust we promise the following;
We direct every penny of every gift you provide to the area of support you choose; none of your gift is spent on fundraising or administration.
If you don’t specify an area, we will align funds for purposes that best advance our priorities.
And if in the future our priorities change, alternative uses for your restricted donations will be discussed with you where possible.
We will only ever contact you in a way that you are happy with.
Whether by mail, email or telephone we’d like to keep you informed and involved with events, networking, news, volunteering and fundraising activities.
If at any point your preferences change, we’ll amend your contact details to what you wish.
To do this, you can call +44 (0)161 295 2446 or email supporters@salford.ac.uk .
We will respect your right to privacy and confidentiality at all times, complying fully with the Data Protection Act 2018.
For further detail please see our Privacy Policy.
We will always be grateful for your support and will thank and acknowledge you promptly.
We will inform you of the impact of your donation and our evolving needs, priorities and initiatives and how you make a difference in the lives of Salford students, staff and the world.
For information see the University’s annual supporter magazine Impact.
We will adhere to fundraising best practices as outlined in our Gift Acceptance and Ethical Fundraising Policy.
And you will always have access to the University’s most recent published financial accounts.
We are proud of the impact of our donors and may wish to recognise your generosity in a variety of ways, either via our website, in our printed Impact magazine or through our other communication platforms.
We will always endeavour to discuss this with you first and if you want your gift to remain anonymous, please inform us and every effort will be made to respect your wishes.
We welcome feedback and take complaints very seriously.
We treat them as an opportunity to learn and develop.
When you contact us with a complaint, we will listen to what you say, keep you informed of our progress, provide you with a prompt response and tell you who to contact if you want to escalate your complaint further.
For further information see our Fundraising Complaints Procedure.
We will respond promptly to any inquiry or question.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/privacy/privacy-notice-alumni-and-donors:
Here at the University of Salford we work hard to ensure that you get the very best experience without having to worry if your information is safe.
Outlined below is how and why we collect, use, and share your personal information, and your rights in relation to that data.
The University of Salford is the “Data Controller” of your personal data and is subject to the Data Protection Act 2018 and the UK General Data Protection Regulations (“UK GDPR”).
We are registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”).
The Alumni Engagement and Development team is committed to preserving and developing the University’s relationship with its graduates.
The university has a global alumni community of over 170,000 graduates who are working in all sectors and are our biggest advocates and supporters.
Our aim is to help graduates continue to feel supported and connected to the University of Salford by providing educational, employability and well-being benefits and services, networking and philanthropic opportunities and a series of educational events.
We collect data about you at various stages in your relationship with us.
This may be:
From elsewhere in the university
We transfer the names of all our students, their degree information and contact details to the database of the Office of Alumni Engagement & Development from the University’s student database at the point of graduation.
We also gather information on membership of University clubs and societies, sports centre membership and alumni library membership.
We also share information with the University’s Enterprise and Industry Collaboration team to identify where we are, or may soon be, working with the same contacts or organisations.
This helps us to provide a joined-up service to you.
Directly from you
When you enquire about our activities, sign up for an event, register for or make changes to your information on the From Salford online alumni platform, make a donation to the University or otherwise provide us with personal information.
You can also let us know about any changes in contact information at any time by filling in this form Update Your Details form or emailing alumni@salford.ac.uk .
3.
Indirectly from you
Your information may also be passed to us from sources such as the University of Salford crowdfunding website where you have made a donation through them.
We will only use your personal information if you have specifically given permission for us to contact you.
To ensure we can continue to communicate with you we may use publicly available information obtained by a third party to help us keep your postal address details up-to-date (we only use the Royal Mail National Change of Address service) and to remove deceased people from our communications list.
4.
From other organisations or public sources
As with other universities and charities we may use your personal data to help us make estimates of your potential ability and willingness to make donations to the university.
These estimates help us to tailor our fundraising activities and communications to you.
To ensure we are providing you the best experience for you we may also use insight companies to provide us with general geo-demographic or wealth information (sometimes known as ‘wealth screening’).
This information is compiled using publicly available data and information you have already supplied to us.
We may use publicly available information ensure we communicate with you in the best way for you.
We use sources such as:
Under the UK GDPR we have to have justification (“legal basis”) for obtaining your information, for alumni and donors we believe that this is:
Legitimate interests
To ensure that we can carry out our role as your alumni engagement and development team we hold and process relevant data on our alumni, supporters and potential supporters.
We ensure all of your personal information is used and stored fairly and treat it in a way that you would reasonably expect.
This privacy statement outlines exactly what we do with your data and why.
Where we would like to contact you by email or SMS with direct marketing messages we require your permission to do so.
All email and SMS communications contain an unsubscribe option so you can withdraw your consent at any time.
We may record some special category data* but only if you provide this information to us directly and it is relevant to our relationship with you.
Under the UK GDPR we are only permitted to collect the minimum amount of information needed to carry out a specific purpose.
We may collect the following type of personal data about you:
Information that helps identify you:
Information relating to your education and employment history:
Information about your family or personal circumstances plus both academic and extracurricular interests, where this is relevant to your relationship with the university or our relationship with you.
We do not record sensitive personal data unless you provide it to us directly, you consent and it is relevant to our ongoing relationship with you.
We delete this information as soon as it is no longer applicable.
Sensitive information we may record includes:
Your personal information will be used to provide any services you have requested and to keep in touch with you as a member of the Salford Alumni community.
We may communicate with you about the following:
Your data is used and processed for the full range of university, alumni and supporter activities and programmes involving academic and administrative departments and all relevant communications, fundraising and marketing activity (by mail, email and telephone).
You can request to stop receiving communications at any time, by completing this Communication Preferences Form .
Alternatively you can email us at any time at alumni@salford.ac.uk specifying your requirements or use the unsubscribe link at the end of every email we send to you.
If you have provided us with your postal address, email address or telephone number we may contact you via these means unless you have told us you’d prefer us not to.
We actively check phone numbers against the Telephone Preference Service (TPS) and we will only call you on a number listed on TPS if you have specifically told us we may.
We also check against the Fundraising Preference Service (FPS) and do not send communications to those who have opted out.
The university does not collect and store any bank or credit/debit card details.
We use information on your employment, university subject of study and membership of University clubs and societies to help tailor our communications with you, including asks for you to become involved in fundraising, or volunteering with our alumni and student communities.
We collect information on alumni library and sports centre membership to monitor uptake of services.
To ensure we only accept fundraising donations from legal sources and in line with our Gift Acceptance and Ethical Fundraising Policy we carry out due diligence research on our potential major donors using publicly and freely available sources.
Your data will not be disclosed to external organisations other than those acting as agents for the University.
We always make sure there are appropriate controls in place (as outlined below) so that your data will remain secure.
The university will never sell, trade or give away your data.
Tools may be used to monitor the effectiveness of the university’s communications with you, including email tracking (which records when an email from us is opened and/or how many links are clicked within the message) and internal data analysis and reporting.
This helps us to understand how our communications are being received and understood.
The university is committed to holding your data securely and treating it with sensitivity.
The university will only hold the data for as long as it considers necessary for the above purposes.
At the end of that retention period, your data will either be deleted completely or anonymised.
In order to meet our contractual needs or to improve our services, sometimes we share your personal data with trusted third parties.
Here’s the policy we apply to those organisations to keep your data safe and protect your privacy:
Our employees, agents & contractors where there is a legitimate reason for their receiving the information, including:
Government departments and agencies where we have a statutory obligation to provide information, for example:
Some of the personal information we process about you may in rare circumstances be transferred to, and stored at, a destination outside the UK for example where it is processed by staff operating outside the UK who work for us or for one of our suppliers, or where the personal data is processed by one of our suppliers who is based outside the UK or uses a storage facilities outside of the UK.
Any international data transfers will comply with UK GDPR requirements.
It is always your choice as to whether you want to receive information about the University, how we raise funds and the ways you can be involved.
If you do not want us to use your personal information in these ways or to contact you by email, phone and/or post please let us know.
You can indicate your preferences by completing this Communication Preferences Form .
If you do not want us to continue to hold your personal information please contact us at alumni@salford.ac.uk .
Please note that we will still need to retain skeleton information on you (name, year/s of study, course title and home address) to help ensure that we do not contact you again.
Any choices you make will overwrite any previous preferences you have informed us about.
The accuracy of your personal information is important to us.
You can let us know about any changes in contact information at any time by filling in this Update Your Details form or emailing alumni@salford.ac.uk .
You have certain rights in respect of the personal information the University holds about you.
Visit our data protection, privacy and cookies page for more information about individual rights under GDPR and how you exercise them.
From time to time we may make changes to this statement because the way we are processing your personal information changes.
All alterations will be posted on this page and will apply from the time we post them.
Where we have a valid email address for you we will periodically email you to inform you what changes have been made and to send you a link to our current privacy statement.
This statement was last updated on 2 August 2021.
Special category data is defined by the UK GDPR as:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/alumni/complaints:
We, at the University of Salford, aim to deliver a high-quality and professional supporter and alumni experience.
Where we do not meet our own high standards or yours, we want to hear from you so we can improve our service.
There may be occasions where we choose not to respond to a complaint or feedback.
Such instances include:
Whilst anonymous complaints cannot be responded to they will still be investigated.
The University of Salford is registered with the Fundraising Regulator who ensure good fundraising practice in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
We commit to their Code of Fundraising Practice and Fundraising Promise .
We monitor the number of complaints we receive, review our learnings and we will share this information with the Fundraising Regulator on request.
If you would like to share your feedback and have a complaint or a concern about the University’s fundraising or alumni engagement practices, please contact us within 3 months at the following.
We will consider complaints made outside of this timeframe, however, if more than 3 months have passed since the matter it may not be possible for us to investigate effectively.
We will seek to acknowledge your complaint within two working days* when you will be given the name and contact details of the person investigating your complaint.
We will come back to you with a resolution within 15 working days of receiving your complaint.
We will inform you about what happened and why and explain any changes we have made to our processes as a result of this investigation.
If we are not able to resolve your complaint within 15 working days we will contact to tell you why and we will tell you when we will have a resolution by.
If you are not satisfied with the resolution, we have provided at stage one please respond to us outlining why.
Your complaint will then be escalated to the Executive Director of Marketing, Recruitment and External Relations.
It will be acknowledged by them within five working days.
The Executive Director of Marketing, Recruitment and External Relations will then investigate your complaint and the reasons you were not satisfied with the initial response.
Within 20 working days of the escalation they will contact you with the outcome of their review, outlining their findings about the cause of your complaint, the initial investigation and the original resolution.
Following the response from the Executive Director of Marketing, Recruitment and External Relations if you are not satisfied with the outcome, please contact the Fundraising Regulator .
The Fundraising Regulator requires that you do this within two months of receiving our final response.
The Fundraising Regulator can be contacted at
* Based on the University’s normal operating calendar.
If you are a current student and have a complaint about the university or a university policy please refer to the Student Complaints Procedure .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/corporate-information/charitable-status-information:
As an exempt charity under the terms of the Charities Act, 2006 the university has due regard to the Charity Commission’s guidance on the reporting of public benefit, and particularly to its supplementary guidance on the advancement of education, in accordance with the requirements of the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) as the principal regulator of English higher education institutions under the Charities Act 2006.
The university’s charity tax exemption number is XN7329.
Key information relating to the university's charitable status can be accessed below.
The University of Salford The Crescent Salford M5 4WT
University charter .
Further information about individual members is available on the Council Biographies page.
Queries regarding Council should be directed to the Secretary's Office, Room 507, Maxwell Building, unisecoffice@salford.ac.uk .
Our Audited Financial Statements .
Extract of the Register of Interests outlining the current declarations of members of Council and Leadership Team.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/alumni/communication-preferences:
Please use the form below to update your communications preferences.
You can update your details or contact preferences in relation to Alumni Engagement and Development activities at any time by revisiting this page, contacting us via alumni@salford.ac.uk or phoning +44 (0)161 295 5265 .
Any information you provide to the university will be securely held in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018, our Data Protection Policy and the Office of Alumni Engagement and Development’s Privacy Policy .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/creating-a-fairer-world-for-all:
At Salford, our research is breaking down barriers, building social justice and fostering a fairer and more inclusive community where opportunity and equity thrive for all.
We enrich lives by exploring the root cause of health inequalities, supporting marginalised communities to address social exclusion, working with policy makers to co-create equitable opportunities, and ensuring new technologies like AI are used in an ethical and responsible way.
We are uniquely positioned at the heart of the community, with strong links to the NHS, criminal justice system, local authorities, charities and community groups.
Through close collaboration, we are able to get to the root cause of some of those inequities and injustices.
Currently, a quarter of our research outputs at Salford are focussed on social justice-related themes, through projects on tackling topics such as sustainability, social welfare and economic justice.
Reducing some of those systemic inequities is going to take time, but our ambition is that through strong, long-term collaboration and leveraging our position at the heart of the community, we will build a legacy that shapes a fairer world for us all.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/building-prosperity-equity-and-community:
Our expertise in this theme cuts across topics such as the development and adoption of technologies, human capital and skills development, financial and social inclusion, and sustainable innovation to promote increased productivity and widespread prosperity.
The outcomes of our research help businesses to innovate, promote more productive employment practice, and make sure that fair and responsible policies are enacted.
This work aligns with several of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, including those on Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9), Reducing Inequalities (SDG 10), Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG 11), and Responsible Consumption and Production (SDG 12).
Through research developed in the theme, we look to understand the strategies and policies needed to promote sustainable economic growth, improve productivity, and contribute to the prosperity of individuals and societies.
This work includes our interdisciplinary expertise in:
Enabling healthier living
Developing creativity and innovation
Improving sustainability

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/enabling-healthier-living:
Researchers working across this theme contribute to the development of evidence-based interventions, policies, and educational initiatives that empower individuals and communities to make informed choices, promoting a higher quality of life and long-term health outcomes.
Integral to this theme is ensuring that the new understanding developed through our work is codeveloped with partners and used to inform practice in this area.
Our ultimate aim is to emphasise the importance of both individual and collective efforts in promoting a healthy and fulfilling life, with our impact and knowledge exchange activities extending to public health initiatives, policy recommendations, and community engagement strategies.
By advancing knowledge and promoting practices that enhance wellbeing, our healthy living research is aligned to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals around Good Health and Wellbeing (SDG 3), Quality Education (SDG 4) and Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG 11).
Our research explores cutting edge advancements in health research and technology and looks to understand how these innovations inform and interactive with the need for sustainable and preventive healthcare practices.
To achieve this, our work draws on our experience in:
Building prosperity and equity

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/improving-environment-and-sustainability:
Our work in this theme explores cross cutting issues around the conservation of biodiversity, responsible resource management, and the development and testing of technologies that minimise ecological impact.
This output of this research includes studies on energy use in homes, green infrastructure and urban planning, the impact of sound on the natural environment, and the development of policies and practices that contribute to the overall wellbeing of the planet.
Through collaborative partnerships with policy and business, we are supporting efforts to conserve biodiversity, reduce carbon emissions, adapt to changing climate conditions, and promote resilience in the face of climate-related challenges.
This work correlates to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals on Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG7), Climate Action (SDG 13), Life Below Water (SDG 14), and Life on Land (SDG 15).
Our researchers propose practical solutions to foster ecological balance and mitigate the impact of human activities on the planet.
This research includes our leading expertise and facilities around:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/developing-cutting-edge-creativity-and-innovative-practice:
Activity within this theme recognises the significance of cultural identity, social connections, and collaborative efforts in enhancing resilience.
Our research looks to draw on the collective strength and adaptability of communities to build a foundation for sustained wellbeing.
Social capital, networks, and the promotion of community wellbeing beyond economic indicators are key components of our work.
Our researchers are helping policymakers understand the role of community-based disaster preparedness, exploring the built environment's influence on community structures and collaboration, and investigating urban and rural dynamics in order to develop approaches that catalyse cultural change.
The impact of our work to help communities across the global to thrive aligns strongly with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals on Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG 11), Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure (SDG 9), Good Health and Wellbeing (SDG 3), and Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions (SDG 16).
Our researchers examine community empowerment, cultural resilience, and the impact of social innovation.
This work is underpinned by our interdisciplinary expertise around:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/celebrating-the-women-at-salford-shaping-the-world-with-their-research:
As part of International Women’s Day 2025, the University of Salford is celebrating the extraordinary women leading groundbreaking research that transforms everyday lives in Salford and beyond.
From exploring innovative healthcare solutions and advancing sustainability to challenging societal preconceptions and advocating for underrepresented communities, Salford’s researchers are tackling some of the most hard-to-solve problems facing the world today.
Watch our video celebrating women at Salford shaping the world:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/university-fellow-helps-map-africa-flood-risk-using-ai:
New research by a Salford University Fellow aims to use AI to help vulnerable countries in Africa facing increased flooding risk due to climate change.
Working as part of Salford’s THINKlab, Dr Thomas O’Shea’s paper, integrating social narratives of flood events into a text network analysis-based decision support framework to reduce vulnerability to climate change in Africa is just published in Climate Services journal.
The interdisciplinary research project, looking at sustainable urban development solutions to flood risk, was born from the lack of access to crucial data needed by many African countries to be able to respond to climate change events.
One of these crucial pieces of data includes accurate flood maps.
Spearheaded by Salford, The University of Zambia (UNZA) and the Red Cross Red Crescent Climate Centre, their mission was to develop a climate resilience strategy using localised flood maps and multiple downscaled Met Office climate models.
The FRACTAL-PLUS project’s localised flood maps were evaluated across two "Learning Labs" with stakeholders in Lusaka, Zambia, enhancing their impact with artificial intelligence techniques.
This approach enabled meaningful engagement with both experts and non-experts, rapidly informing strategic future planning amidst the uncertainties of a changing climate and data scarcity within the Global South.
By integrating community-based flood risk narratives, the project not only improved stakeholder engagement but also offered a benchmark for resilience planning and resource utilisation.
This innovative approach highlights the importance of localised data and interdisciplinary collaboration in addressing climate challenges.
Dr Thomas O’Shea said: “This paper captures community flood risk narratives and demonstrates how they can streamline the resilience-building timeline when high-quality data is scarce.
Artificial Intelligence was a huge help in analysing large datasets and finding patterns in them.
“The methods applied for the Lusaka case study are also purpose-built to be replicable and scalable for different physical event types, socio-cultural settings and for mapping the synergy between these aspects far into the future, supporting climate-informed decision making and consolidating climate services research.”
For further information on the project and its methodology, you can read Dr O’Shea’s research paper here .
Thomas is one of our University Fellows at Salford; a group of 21 early career academics delivering transformational research across our four schools.
The University Fellows are tackling some of the world’s most pressing challenges through world-leading research and innovation - from climate change, healthy living and inequality to noise pollution and keeping our bees buzzing.
For their first two years at Salford, the University Fellows are focussing exclusively on establishing the foundations for research leadership and excellence in their fields.
Innovators of the future, they are forming ideas that will shape the world.
Find out more about the University Fellows: 21 ways our University Fellows are shaping the world 21 ways our University Fellows are shaping the world

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/noise-network-plus-the-ps18-million-initiative-to-engineer-a-quieter-future:
A network of engineers, policymakers, industry stakeholders and scientists, including the University of Salford, will take on one of the UK’s most overlooked environmental challenges: noise pollution.
From the constant hum of road traffic to the thousands of flights in and out of UK airports, noise awareness in our modern world often fades into the background – but it carries significant consequences for both human health and wildlife.
Over the next 10–15 years, Noise Network Plus will focus on promoting conscious design processes to create quieter products, buildings, and transportation systems, with the aim to reduce noise pollution and build a healthier environment.
And The University of Salford will be bringing its world class expertise and facilities to work on the problem, thanks to a £1.8m grant from EPSRC.
Professor Antonio J.
Torija Martinez and Dr Simone Graetzer from the School of Science, Engineering and Environment at the University of Salford are Co-Leads on the grant.
Antonio J.
Torija Martinez, Professor of Acoustic Engineering and Psychoacoustics, said: “As the UK progresses toward Net Zero, uptake in sustainable energy and advanced technology, such as wind turbines and drones, are set to become increasingly prevalent.
Through our initiative, we aim to transform the way noise is managed, embedding innovative solutions into engineering design and policy.”
Simone Graetzer, Senior Research Fellow, said: “At this critical time for the environment, our research and innovation network will employ a systems-thinking approach to address the root causes of noise and leverage technology for meaningful change.”
The University of Surrey will lead on the project.
Professor Mark Plumbley, project lead and Professor of Signal Processing at the University of Surrey’s Centre for Vision, Speech and Signal Processing, said:
“Noise is a frequently neglected pollutant, but it has a big impact on health, society and the environment.
For example, road noise can lead to sleep disturbance and heart disease, costing £7-10 billion each year in England alone.
Once noise is out there, it is really hard to remove.
We need to re-think how we design noise from the start.”
Noise Network Plus is one of six research projects to receive a share of £10 million from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
Together they form part of its wider network-based community engagement initiative to address ‘Tomorrow’s Engineering Research Challenges’ (TERC), launched today (11th February), which focuses on tackling the most pressing issues facing the engineering sector.
A collaboration between the University of Surrey, City St George's University of London, the University of Bath, and the University of Salford, Noise Network Plus aims to build unprecedented research capabilities to tackle the complex challenge of reducing noise and its impacts on people, the environment and the economy.
Bringing together diverse teams and stakeholders, the initiative will promote inclusive dialogue and co-design innovative solutions.
The launch of Noise Network Plus will take place on 18th March at Prince Philip House, London, the home of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
The event will bring together a cross-section of people from engineering and other disciplines including researchers, industry, professional institutions, policymakers, charities, and other stakeholders, to identify the challenges that need to be addressed, and plan how the Network can address these challenges.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/research:
In July the Acoustics Research Centre hosted an Air Source Heat Pump Noise Policy Workshop...
The University of Salford is to provide a breakthrough opportunity for an emerging artist...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Centres act as catalysts for our work to make the world a more prosperous place.
Through diverse and multidisciplinary interactions, these centres allow our researchers to come together to explore new and innovative ideas that stimulate discovery.
Collaborations within our centres ensure that our research boosts economic growth and transforms lives within our region, across the country and on a global scale.
Making the world sound better for over 60 years
Accelerating progress towards net zero housing design.
The North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) is a...
The Biomedical Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC) brings...
Cutting-edge research in the built and human environment...
Fostering a new vision of innovative and entrepreneurial...
Working across professions and disciplines to conduct research...
Our vision is to develop world-class research excellence in core...
Co-developing world-class human movement and rehabilitation...
The Centre for Research on Inclusive Society (CRIS) is a...
Supporting the business community to adopt sustainable solutions...
Creating a collaborative space for pioneering and shaping the...
Making the study of literature, language and creativity relevant...
The Environmental Research and Innovation Centre is a world...
Building on the history, success and achievements of the research...
Providing a vibrant interdisciplinary research community...
We support, prompt and make visible Practice as Research activity...
For more information about our research centres, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/acoustics-research:
Acoustics and audio research has been conducted at University of Salford for over 60 years.
Our research has fed into products that companies make and sell worldwide, as well as regulations and standards used in the UK, Europe and internationally.
It is funded by research councils, national and international government bodies, and industry.
The centre brings research active staff together with a vibrant Postgraduate Researcher community, with staff and students receiving numerous awards for their research.
We have world-class acoustics laboratories : listening rooms, reverberation rooms, anechoic chambers, an accredited calibration laboratory and state-of-the-art equipment and instrumentation.
Through the laboratories, we are able to bring much of our fundamental research into real life applications.
Whatever your industry, our team can make your projects sound better
The specialist commercial acoustics testing team at the University of Salford delivers innovative solutions in acoustic measurement, modelling, and development.
We operate as a commercial test house, delivering accredited standard testing and calibration services and, where needed, specialist bespoke testing in acoustics, audio, human perception, acoustic materials and vibro-acoustics.
We are supported by the Acoustics Research Centre, one of the largest established groups of acousticians in the world.
We have been conducting acoustic measurements at Salford since the late 1950s and there can’t be much in the way of acoustic measurements that we haven’t encountered during that time.
Today, measurements are a major strength at Salford ranging from accredited standard tests and calibrations  to novel bespoke methods and large surveys.
Our test laboratories are UKAS accredited to perform a number of standard tests.
We also enjoy in-house expertise that enables us to develop specialist novel measurement methods in acoustics and vibro-acoustics which have been applied in the automotive, aerospace, marine, energy, architectural and building  sectors.
We have extensive experience in large scale environmental noise and vibration surveys, and a range of specialist equipment to run major national and international measurement campaigns.
We also have capabilities in atmospheric remote sensing through SODAR using specialist SODAR equipment.
We spend about 90% of our time indoors, and consequently the acoustic quality of buildings is vital to well-being.
This area of research looks at all different building types: theatres, recording studios, schools, homes, open-plan offices etc.
Our research:
We are also a test house for building acoustic elements and hold UKAS accreditation for many standard test methods.
Digital signal processing, spatial audio and the perception of audio form an important part of our research.
The University’s presence at MediaCityUK, alongside the BBC and other media, future media and broadcast organisations, creates an important driver for research.
The research centre is a lead partner in the BBC’s Audio Research Partnership.
We are also a test house and carry out commercial research for audio engineering companies.
The ability to model a sound field accurate is fundamental to the understanding of the underlying characteristics of the sound and how the sound can be manipulated and controlled.
The advance of computational technology, both in hardware and software, has enabled us to make great progresses in modelling ever more sophisticated sound fields in realistic indoor and outdoor environments.
The impact of works in this area can be seen in the design of acoustic performance spaces such as studios, concert halls and soundscapes in urban design; the development of novel and high performance acoustic materials such as sonic cloaks and active absorbers; and more effective control of noise such as novel noise barriers, metal cladding with high noise insulation, and active noise shielding technology.
At Salford we continue to be at the forefront of developing new techniques for modelling and sound, and the use of such modelling techniques to tackle pertinent practical acoustical and related problems.
We have developed and used a wide range of numerical techniques for computer modelling, including (among others) geometrical methods, boundary element methods, finite element methods, finite difference methods, parabolic equation methods, and combinations thereof.
We have internationally recognised expertise in multidisciplinary  aspects concerning environmental noise, vibration and soundscapes.The environmental noise and vibration research group has participated in National (Defra) and EU (EU FP7 CargoVibes project) funded projects investigating the human response to noise and vibration.
This work resulted with the derivation of exposure-response curves for the assessment of annoyance due  to noise and vibration and a guidance document on the evaluation of railway vibration.
Linked with the human response to noise and vibration, the group conducts analysis of situational, attitudinal, and socio-demographic factors in order to provide a better understanding of community annoyance response and to develop practical tools for cost effective management of operations.
As well as field related investigations, the group also conducts perceptual laboratory tests that lead to models for the prediction of annoyance based on objective features of sound and vibration.
Moreover, there is an interest in machine learning and source identification as the railway comprises different  sources (e.g.
freight, maintenance, high speed).
These results are expected to guide new future policy on railway noise and vibration mitigation measures.
This area of research involves materials and structures for noise control and sound manipulation.
Our research mainly concerns modelling, measuring and understanding sound interaction with porous materials, metamaterials and sonic crystals.
We also carry out research on acoustic diffusers and materials for vibroacoustics.
As well as doing testing and commercial R&D on acoustic materials for a wide variety of industrial sectors.
Our team’s work has contributed to original modelling and measurements for omnidirectional absorber of low-frequency sound (acoustic black hole) and membrane structures.
Current research activities focus on resonant acoustic metamaterials and superlensing.
membrane structures and resonant metasurfaces.
Our current activities are focused on nonlinear properties of resonant and graded metamaterials for attenuation of high amplitude sound.
The goal of psychoacoustics is to understand how people perceive and experience sound.
This can be at a low level; for example, we might want to understand how accurately you can locate a sound source, or we might want to measure the smallest change in sound level you can detect.
We can also work at a higher level; for example, we might want to understand the emotional response to sound in your everyday environment, or we might want to evaluate annoyance due to noise pollution.
We carry out mainly high-level applied psychoacoustic research aimed at solving practical problems.
The results of our research are used in designing better environments, more appealing products and more effective regulation.
We have done significant work on soundscapes, where we led a large project to characterise human perception of everyday sound and develop ways of improving the sound of the built environment.
We have also worked to understand product sound quality: what makes one kettle sound more pleasant than another?
Vibro-acoustics is about the generation, transmission and radiation of sound from acoustic and vibratory sources, and lies at the interface of acoustics and structural dynamics.
Our research covers many applications, including: automotive, rolling-stock, marine, aerospace, domestic products and building acoustics.
We specialise in developing and implementing novel measurement and modelling methods for vibro-acoustics.
Our main research areas include:
We have been involved in numerous projects engaging school children, families and the general public.
Our aim is to make people more aware of acoustic science and understand how acoustic engineering can improve their sonic environment.
Our extensive resources to support the teaching of sound within schools and colleges are available on our Science Resources for Schools and Colleges website.
Other projects have included:
Innovative research partnership with BBC Audio
Enhancing music listening for those with hearing loss
KTP to develop acoustic insulation and soundproofing solutions
Explore our Acoustics research website to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please contact the acoustics research staff: Acoustics research staff
For more information, please contact the acoustics research staff:
Acoustics research staff

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/centre-for-human-movement-and-rehabilitation:
Co-developing world-class human movement and rehabilitation research and education that addresses real-world challenges faced by our communities.
Research within the Centre for Human Movement and Rehabilitation addresses a series of important global health challenges that limit mobility, are associated with pain, and can prevent people from living independently.
The work encompasses rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases, long-term conditions, such as limb loss, diabetes and stroke, along with health states associated with ageing, such as frailty.
The centre also has a strong focus on sport and exercise, encompassing research related to strength and conditioning, sports biomechanics and sport injury.
Across the research centre, many research styles and disciplines are brought together.
This ranges from engineering and computational modelling through to health behaviour, social sciences and qualitative research.
In addition to delivering innovative research insights, we work closely with the NHS and industry partners to develop and test new treatments and to create innovative healthcare products and services.
We also work closely with many leading international partners, including Universities across the US, Africa, Australia and Europe.
We consult closely with users and patient groups to develop health care solutions focused on the needs of patients or community groups.
The centre plays a key role in training the research workforce of the future and houses the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in prosthetics and orthotics.
This area of research seeks to understand the integrated functioning of the knee joint in health and disease.
Our research focuses on the study of movement, muscle control, mechanical loading and on mechanisms which underlie knee injuries and subsequent pain.
We use this knowledge to understand disease mechanisms and processes, suboptimal mechanical loading and to create and evaluate interventions developed to help people recover from injury and reduce knee pain.
These interventions include a range of different physiotherapist led approaches, such as exercise, biofeedback, gait re-training along with assistive devices designed to improve knee function, such as insoles, braces, footwear.
We focus primarily on patellofemoral pain, anterior cruciate ligament injury and knee osteoarthritis but are expanding the remit of our research to other lower limb conditions, such as hip osteoarthritis.
This area of research draws together multiple disciplines, such as biomechanics, rehabilitation, sport and pain science and has been supported by various funders including the EPSRC, Versus Arthritis, NIHR and industry.
We also have strong collaborations with leading international experts in this area.
We lead and host the EPSRC-funded Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Prosthetics and Orthotics, with Imperial, Strathclyde and Southampton as academic partners together with 27 external partners including the major P&O manufacturers.
The CDT is recruiting 58 PhD students and provides wide-ranging multidisciplinary research, embedded in industry, user and stakeholders needs.
Projects range in scope from policy-focused research, in collaboration with the WHO, to design of novel prosthetic devices.
Our work on lower-limb prostheses has included:
Work on upper-limb prostheses focuses on three quite different problems:
This research uses quantitative and qualitative approaches to measure and understand a wide range of themes relating to footwear and foot health.
Quantitative approaches include investigating foot and lower limb biomechanics, footwear and orthotic design and skin physiology and mechanics.
Qualitative approaches explore health interventions to support declines in foot health, health service delivery, education and training and changing professional practice.
Current projects include:
The measurement of free-living physical behaviour aims to facilitate the study and applications of objective measurement and quantification of free-living physical behaviour(s) using body-worn devices.
We have developed event-based analysis techniques and outcome measures and collaborations with clinicians and health practitioners allow this research to be applied across varied populations where the benefits of physical activity to health are of key importance.
Outcomes measures, based on physical behaviour patterns, are being developed to quantify the effectiveness of interventions in clinical groups and these techniques are also being used to enhance our understanding of how physical behaviours are affected by environmental and social factors.
The aim of this area of research is to deliver research which can improve quality of life for people with long-term conditions, such as rheumatological disease, diabetes and respiratory illness.
Our research spans a broad remit, from the exploration of disease mechanisms and development of measurement tools through to the development of new interventions and evaluation of clinical and cost-effectiveness of NHS treatments.
Our work has a strong digital component.
For example, we have created an online hub to help patients self-manage rheumatological conditions and are developing an avatar-based representation of breathing to facilitate the self-management of respiratory disease.
Our research has real-world impact on patients, public, and Communities of Practice (CoP) and is supported by our close links and involvement with national policy makers, patient groups and charities, clinical services and professional bodies.
Rehabilitation Technologies and Biomedical Engineering is a cross-school area of research, jointly led by Professors Laurence Kenney (Health Sciences), David Howard (Science Engineering and the Environment) and Malcolm Granat (Health Sciences).
We focus on the design and development of new rehabilitation technologies aimed at assisting functional movement, together with novel methods for their evaluation.
Current areas of research include the design of a novel device to improve the control of upper limb prostheses and the design and evaluation of safer walking aids.
In addition to many collaborations with teams in the UK (such as the University of Central Lancashire and the University of Manchester), we have a long-standing collaboration with Biomedical Engineers at Makerere University in Uganda focused on the development of upper limb prosthetic devices.
Our research has led to patented designs, and a spin-out company in China which produces a functional electrical stimulation system for stroke rehabilitation.
The sport and exercise area of research is multidisciplinary and focusses primarily on two key areas, athlete health and performance, and population health.
Our athlete health and performance research explores the determinants of human performance and injury in sport and exercise, which includes advanced methods of assessing and enhancing athletic performance across the ability range (e.g., recreational [such as habitual runners], and elite athletes [such as professional footballers]).
We work closely with several national and international sports organisations and sports technology providers to support this research area through funded projects.
With respect to population health, we investigate the mechanisms by which exercise, physical activity, and nutrition aids health and either prevents or treats injury and disease.
We also explore how improving exercise, physical activity and eating behaviours can enrich the daily lives of various population groups via targeted biomechanical, physiological, and nutritional assessments and interventions.
Transforming products and improving practice in human movement and rehabilitati…
Cognitive Muscular Therapy
Improving assessment, treatment and self-management for people with arthritis
Explore our Centre for Human Movement and Rehabilitation website to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please contact Professor Stephen Preece or Dr Carin Price.
Professor Stephen Preece: S.Preece@salford.ac.uk Dr Carin Price: C.L.Price@salford.ac.uk
Professor Stephen Preece: S.Preece@salford.ac.uk
Dr Carin Price: C.L.Price@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/north-of-england-robotics-innovation-centre:
The North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) is a focal point of the university’s commitment to industry collaboration, innovation, and skills in an established and continually expanding area of expertise.
NERIC provides a hub which adds value to the university and Greater Manchester’s technical infrastructure.
Serving as a hub for small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) looking to design, test and validate innovation in a rapidly growing area, NERIC offers these companies a one-stop shop for developing and applying robotics and automation alongside other innovative digital technologies in their business.
NERIC also offers SMEs access to a purpose-built facility, specialist equipment and innovation support services that support new and, improved applications and products to be taken forward.
NERIC’s focus key areas include robotics for intelligent infrastructure, digital automation, and supply chain improvement.
Working across a range of sectors including robotics and automation, the requirements of net zero, healthcare technologies, vehicle automation and the development of smart cities.
In line with the university’s commitment to reducing carbon emissions, NERIC is an all-electric building.
Explore our NERIC website to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please get in touch: neric@salford.ac.uk
For more information, please get in touch:
neric@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-excellence:
Our high-quality research is delivering a lasting economic and social benefit to drive us towards a more prosperous world.
Our researchers are achieving this through collaborations with SMEs to foster innovation, partnerships with large businesses for impactful research, and working closely with charities and policy makers to influence positive change.
Our research excellence is firmly rooted in experience.
Over the last six decades our researchers have regularly delivered insights which has made the world a better place.
This has been reflected in our performance in exercises such as the Research Excellence Framework.
According to the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF) - the UK's system for assessing the quality of research in higher education institutions - our research is...
world leading or internationally excellent
Plus, five of our units of assessment were regarded as 100% outstanding or having very considerable impact:
Working with our extensive network of partners across a range of industries and sectors, the University of Salford delivers real world change benefitting society, the environment and the economy both for our region and in response to contemporary global challenges.
We have a strong track record in translating our research findings into positive changes in society and the economy.
This experience is demonstrated by our performance in exercises such as the Knowledge Exchange Framework, as well as in how we work with partners.
Much like our collaborative approach to working with business, our approach to public and community engagement involves working with local, regional and national partners to create extraordinary experiences.
We combine our expertise and passion with our physical and digital spaces to co-create unique and inspirational events that resonate, inform and entertain.
Continued very high engagement across IP and Commercialisation, including performance and investment across our formal spin-outs.
Maintaining very high engagement in how we work with business, in particular our contract research income with SMEs and through KTPs and grants.
Demonstrating high engagement with respect to activities including CPD and graduate start-ups, public and community engagement and research partnerships.
Some of our recent events and activities in the community.
A fascinating new photography exhibition will showcase Salford people and the houses they lived in between 1890 to 1970.
The next in a series of inaugural professorial lectures from the University of Salford is looking at the future of housing and the...
We are delighted to announce that The University of Salford will be taking part in the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures...
Get in touch with our Research Impact team.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/energy-house-20-wins-unlock-net-zero-award:
A world-first research project designed to help create the energy-efficient homes of the future has won a prestigious national award.
Energy House 2.0 is led by The University of Salford in partnership with Bellway, Saint-Gobain and Barratt Developments.
The unique facility won the Building or Development of the Year (Private Sector) Award in the inaugural Unlock Net Zero Awards at Housing 2023, held recently at the Manchester Central convention complex.
Energy House 2.0 is researching and testing, in tightly controlled conditions, new ways of powering, heating and insulating homes, making them more energy efficient and helping to meet new standards which require a significant reduction in carbon emissions for new-build homes from 2025.
As part of the pioneering project, housebuilder Bellway built a three-bedroom detached house, named The Future Home, inside a climate-controlled chamber within the university’s Energy House 2.0 facility.
The UK’s largest housebuilder, Barratt Developments, also built a three-bedroom low carbon home, known as eHome2, in the same chamber, in partnership with Saint-Gobain, the worldwide leader in light and sustainable construction.
The chamber allows researchers at Energy House 2.0 to test the energy performances of buildings in temperatures ranging from -20C to +40C, as well as gale force winds, rain, snow, ice and solar radiation.
Professor Will Swan, Director of Energy House Laboratories at The University of Salford , said: “Energy House 2.0 is part of the UK’s net zero research and innovation infrastructure.
It is great for the whole team to be recognised and we agreed with the judges’ comments that we are just getting started in making a significant contribution to understanding how we are going to get to net zero in our homes.”
Jamie Bursnell, Group Technical and Innovation Manager at Bellway, said: “We are incredibly proud to be involved in this truly pioneering research which could forever change the way that homes are built, not only in this country but all over the world.
For the project to be recognised in this manner at the inaugural Unlock Net Zero Awards is high praise indeed.
“Carbon reduction is one of the three key priorities of our Better with Bellway strategy – the company’s long-term commitment to responsible and sustainable practices.
The performance of the new building technologies in The Future Home will be tested and closely monitored to give the team valuable information.
This will enable us to build homes which will be more energy efficient with minimal carbon emissions.”
Oliver Novakovic, Technical & Innovation Director, at Barratt Developments, said: “Building eHome2 within the Energy House is one of the most significant projects that Barratt has ever undertaken.
Along with Saint-Gobain and the University of Salford, we’re leading the way to test the impact that extreme temperatures caused by climate change could have.
“The research will inform us to build net zero housing at scale, using off-site methods of construction and lower carbon products that reduce the impact on the planet.
It’s good that the importance of this R&D project has been recognised by the industry.”
Tom Cox, Technical and Development Director at Saint-Gobain Off-Site Solutions, said: “We were thrilled that the Energy House 2.0 project, a one of a kind research project, received this recognition in the inaugural Unlock Net Zero Awards.
We are hugely proud to be part of this pioneering project, and utilise the learnings from the research to inform our own solutions.
As part of our commitment to being net zero by 2050 we are continually working on sustainable solutions that help decarbonise buildings, reduce our own carbon impact and the carbon from across our value chain.
eHome2, which was built using sustainable solutions from our brands and partners, will undergo a rigorous testing programme looking at energy efficiency, thermal performance to understand how to deliver zero carbon homes at scale.”
The Unlock Net Zero Building or Development of the Year (Private Sector) Award featured seven finalists and related to projects and developments completed between January 2021 and March 2023.
The judging criteria included net zero/environmental strategy, supply chain decarbonisation, Modern Methods of Construction, waste and resource efficiency.
Energy House 2.0 is a £16 million project part-funded by the European Regional Development Fund.
The research is designed to try to uncover the most effective ways to reduce carbon and to control running costs in future homes.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/game-changing-research-reveals-the-full-genome-sequences-of-hundreds-of-primates:
The rich genetic diversity and evolutionary history of primates – the group that includes monkeys, apes, lemurs and humans ourselves - has been revealed in full for the first time in a new research paper published today.
And the results will help us gain a better understanding of genetic diseases, human health, how we evolved, and even the mutations that make us uniquely human.
Academics from around the world, including the University of Salford, have sequenced the genomes of more than 200 primate species, nearly half of the current total, to create the first ever global catalogue of genetic diversity among primates.
Published today in the journal Science, the new data will open up a new era in primate research.
Whereas previous genetic research into primates has mainly focused on relatively small parts of the genome, such as specific genes, this study is the first to publish a diverse sample of whole genomes across the primate family tree.
As a comparison, if genes are paragraphs and chromosomes are chapters, the whole genome is the entire book that includes all of an organism’s DNA.
Working with 75 colleagues in Spain, Germany, the US, Brazil, among another 20 countries, the team from Salford contributed 205 samples totalling 77 species, or more than 30% of the species analysed in the new study, from their large primate genetic collection, the only of its kind in Europe.
The Salford team also used information from the fossil record in combination with the genome sequences to produce a new best primate family tree to date.
The results have created an accurate picture of how all the different branches, including humans, are related to each other, and when these branches split from each other.
Professor Jean Boubli, Chair in Tropical Ecology and Conservation at the University of Salford, one of the papers authors and one of the leading researchers in the Primate Conservation Sequencing Consortium (PCSC) that led this research said: “This is a real game changer in studying many aspects of primate evolution.
And it touches on conservation.
Many of these species are under threat and the results here could help with conservation efforts.
It is a fantastic collaboration that is going to open up a lot of doors to future research.”
Dr Robin Beck, Reader in Biology at the University of Salford, is an expert in fossils and phylogenetics and co-author on the paper.
He said: “This study shows the power of whole genomes for understanding primate diversity, and how primates have evolved through time.
We now have a high quality family tree of primates, using by far the biggest dataset ever published.
It shows how primates have diversified over the last 60 million years, from their origin a few million years after the extinction of the dinosaurs to the present day.
For the first time, we have a truly robust timescale for these evolutionary events, and we can now start to try to identify what might have caused them.”
Dr Dorien de Vries is a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Salford who used her expertise in the primate fossil record to identify fossils that could be used to help calculate the timescale of the new primate family tree.
She said: “Knowing the timeline of primate evolution provides a great framework for many kinds of future research.
For example, only then can you calculate and compare mutation rates between different primate groups (as we did in the paper) which has important implications for rates of evolution, and what differences there are between small and large primates, among many other questions.”
Mareike Janiak, a former Salford postdoctoral researcher now at the Canadian Centre of Computational Genomics, combined these fossil data with the genomic data to calculate when different primate groups developed, an analysis that was only possible by using a large supercomputer.
Because of the immense size of the data involved, even on a supercomputer the analysis required a full month to complete.
She said: “This was a large collaborative effort that was made possible by combining the expertise of researchers from many backgrounds, including field biologists, fossil experts, and computer scientists.
Just a few years ago, only around 20 primate genomes were available, so this is a massive leap forward for the field.”
Professor Ian Goodhead, Associate Dean for Research and Innovation for the School of Science, Engineering and Environment and Genomics researcher, said: “This study highlights how effective it is bringing together multiple disciplines to help answer some of the toughest scientific questions.
The University of Salford has invested close to £1m in computational and molecular biology over the past few years, and it’s great to see this pay off to both researchers and students; studies like this highlight how future biologists will be working.
Over the next few years we hope to expand this work further to make further contributions to conservation efforts in the Amazon, and more widely.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/salford-experts-contribute-textbook-giving-global-perspective-prosthetics-research:
Upper limb prosthetics research is a fast-moving field and Salford researchers’ expertise in this area led to an invitation to contribute to a recent textbook: Control of Prosthetic Hands: Challenges and emerging avenues .
The edited book brings together research from laboratories across the world, in order to offer a global perspective on advances in prosthetic hand control.
Building on recent work , University of Salford researchers Professor Laurence Kenney, Dr Adam Galpin, Dr Alix Chadwell, Professor Malcolm Granat, Dr Sibylle Thies and Dr John Head collaborated with Professor Peter Kyberd (Portsmouth University) on a chapter focusing on methods for the evaluation of these devices.
The chapter starts with an overview of the challenges of measurement in upper limb prosthetics, the conventional approaches to evaluation and their strengths and weaknesses.
The next section reports on the evaluation tools, some of which were developed in Salford, and which have emerged from studies of human motor control; before finally moving on to consider novel methods, pioneered in Salford, which can be used to capture, in detail, the everyday upper limb behaviours of people in the real world.
Finally, the chapter discusses the opportunities such real-world approaches open up around data analysis at scale.
Dr John Head has also contributed to a chapter on challenges in the field of children’s prosthetics.
The book is essential reading for anyone involved in research or undertaking advanced courses in prosthetic design and control.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/university-fellow-david-frayne-wins-esrc-celebrating-impact-prize-2024:
Dr David Frayne, University Fellow from the School of Health and Society, has been awarded the ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize for Outstanding Business and Enterprise Impact.
The prestigious accolade, now in its 12th year, was presented at a ceremony in London on Wednesday 20 November 2024, in recognition of David’s groundbreaking research on the four-day working week.
The award, led by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), celebrates academics who achieve and enable exceptional economic or societal impact through their research.
David’s work, developed in collaboration with Professor Brendan Burchell from the University of Cambridge and supported by Professor Daiga Kamerāde from Salford, focuses on improving productivity and well-being with a four-day working week.
The research, which was part of the world’s largest trial of a four-day working week, explores the benefits of reducing working hours without lowering pay.
This concept, once a niche topic in academic circles, is now gaining global traction.
David said: “The proposal to reduce working time without reducing pay has undergone a remarkable journey over the past few years.
No longer confined to academic manifestoes and labour histories, working time reduction initiatives are now being tested in organisations of all shapes and sizes.
Governments are reaching out to us to learn more, and the idea is rapidly gaining public acceptance.
“I am so pleased that the ESRC wants to recognise our four-day week pilot studies as a key part of this journey.
It is a welcome moment for us, and an opportunity to credit the work of our many academic partners, as well as our close collaborators at the Autonomy Institute.”
Alongside the positive impact on the organisations involved in the pilot, the vast majority of which have maintained the four-day working week, the research boosted interest in wider business and political domains.
The team is now working on public sector pilots with a local authority in England and the Scottish Government, as well as informing a potential trial for the Welsh Government.
It is also advising international governments, including Sweden and the US.
ESRC Executive Chair, Stian Westlake, said: "The projects featured in this year’s ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize 2024 demonstrate how social science can have a real effect on peoples’ lives both in the UK and abroad.
"They encompass some of the most pressing issues of our times, helping the victims of institutional scandals and potentially showing us the way to more fulfilling working lives.
Together, they show how social sciences can inform the public debate and change the world.”
The ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize shines a spotlight on researchers who address critical issues through their work, making lasting contributions across diverse fields.
This year's winners exemplify the transformative potential of economic and social research.
David’s success underpins the University of Salford's commitment to impactful research that addresses pressing societal challenges.
David is one of our University Fellows at Salford; a group of 21 early career academics delivering transformational research across our four schools.
The University Fellows are tackling some of the world’s most pressing challenges through world-leading research and innovation - from climate change, inequality and wellbeing, to noise pollution and keeping our bees buzzing.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/salfords-sarwat-howe-leads-the-way-in-technology-transfer-with-unique-government-placement:
The University of Salford’s Intellectual Property and Commercialisation Manager, Sarwat Howe, has just returned from a five month placement at the Government Office for Technology Transfer (GOTT) - a successful opportunity for knowledge exchange between the University and government.
GOTT is a unit within the government's Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, which was established to support the UK public sector to unlock the potential of its knowledge assets to deliver value to the economy and society.
Whilst Technology Transfer Offices play a crucial role within universities, GOTT is a world-first – giving Sarwat a very unique experience of technology transfer within government.
Here at Salford, Sarwat works alongside Paul Cihlar, Head of Commercialisation, in our Technology Transfer Office (TTO), which is part of the Research and Knowledge Exchange directorate.
Facilitating the commercialisation of research and innovation, Sarwat helps academics turn their discoveries into much-needed products and services to boost the impact of their research.
Her role involves working to identify valuable intellectual property generated by academic research, protecting it through patents or other legal means, and connecting researchers with business partners and investors.
During the secondment with the Government, Sarwat worked in various teams across GOTT to get a true feel for what the organisation does as a whole.
Her activities ranged from offering expertise on policy queries, providing technical knowledge on commercialisation projects, and helping to shape, deliver and evaluate a webinar series to upskill public sector employees in commercialisation.
Additionally, Sarwat’s also had the chance to experience the civil service in action during the pre and post election periods and how the government operates in these critical times.
Following her return to the University of Salford, Sarwat has shared some reflections on her key learnings from the experience:
Technology Transfer isn’t all about big breakthroughs
Before joining GOTT, I hadn't considered the differences in the missions of universities and government, reflected in the knowledge assets they generate and how they do technology transfer.
Within universities, the primary objective is to push the boundaries of our knowledge for lasting social and economic benefit, by carrying out cutting-edge research and delivering top quality teaching.
Whereas in government, it is to support citizens by providing public services that can improve the way we live and grow our economy.
Whilst on my secondment, I couldn't help but notice the abundance of Knowledge Assets owned by government that aren't necessarily seen by the public, but that play a crucial role in ensuring that public services can be delivered effectively.
For example, the National Underground Asset Register (NUAR) is a digital map of under group pipes and cables, which will help those who plan and carry out digging work to do their jobs more effectively and safely.
This will minimise disruptions to the public and businesses, enhance infrastructure development and improve overall public services.
These innovations, as is true of many others in government, are based on incremental changes that can transform the way we live for the better.
Culture change takes time
One thing I really enjoyed during my time at GOTT was working in a new area for government and seeing first-hand how knowledge assets generated by the public sector have the potential to be translated into new goods and services for the benefit of the economy and society.
Coming from a university background, where many institutions have been doing technology transfer for decades (and have continued to adapt and refine their strategies), I found it eye-opening and energizing to experience an environment where technology transfer is still a relatively new practice.
It is going to take time not only to understand how to do technology transfer in government, but also for the value and benefits from this important activity to become apparent.
I look forward to seeing this area of work grow in government, and in particular how GOTT is going to create change in the public sector when it comes to exploiting knowledge assets.
Technology Transfer is a contact sport
I have repeatedly heard this phrase throughout my career, as in my experience the success of technology transfer projects is down to having the right team of people behind them.
I quickly realised this was true during my time at GOTT too.
There are so many people involved in getting a product to market – not just the innovators behind the idea, but also the people behind the scenes who put enabling systems in place to break down barriers to commercialisation.
In GOTT there is the capability enhancement team, that delivers training and upskills the public sector in KA management, the funding team, that identifies and support projects along the innovation lifecycle, the Technology Transfer team, that provides practical, hands-on advice to organisations on the best way to commercialise their KAs, as well as many other teams pushing GOTT’s work forward.
It’s always inspiring to work with people who care so much about what they do, and heartening to see it takes just as much collaboration and joined up effort for technology transfer to happen in government as it does in universities.
What’s next for me?
We have a really strong community of researchers here at the University of Salford who are working hard to solve problems in the world around us.
I’m excited to bring my learnings back to my role at Salford and help our academics to amplify the impact of their research across a diverse range of projects.
Having previously worked in a well-established technology cluster based in the southeast, I have seen how a closely-knit ecosystem can benefit the local economy - and I can see the potential for something similar in Salford.
Making local connections, where you can call upon your network for support, is incredibly important for this line of work.
GOTT’s headquarters are on our doorstep in Salford, which is an excellent opportunity for us.
We've been saying that Salford is a place where ideas are formed that shape the world and I'm excited to see how my relationship grows with GOTT and how we can continue to contribute to the innovation ecosystem in our city region and beyond.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/major-new-textbook-edited-by-salford-lecturer-to-provide-critical-insight-on-disability-and-ableism:
This Occupational Therapy Week, we are proud to introduce our Head of Occupational Therapy, Dr Bethan Collins and celebrate the recent publication of a major new occupational therapy textbook, which Bethan was European editor for.
Bethan joined the University of Salford as Head of Occupational Therapy in March 2020, just as the first Covid lockdown hit.
While it was a challenging time in many ways, she recalls feeling very welcome and supported as she joined the team.
Bethan began her academic career in 2002, when she first started teaching occupational therapy in Trinity College Dublin.
She has also taught at Bournemouth University and the University of Liverpool.
Her PhD was awarded in 2009 and her research was about disabled adults’ perceptions of choice and autonomy in everyday life.
“Occupational therapy is a wonderful profession,” she says.
“It focuses on enabling people to do the things they want and need to do in everyday life.”
She explains: “Occupation comes from the Latin ‘occupatum’ - to be occupied with something or engrossed in it.
Occupation, for occupational therapists, is far broader than work, it is anything that a person does throughout their lifespan that holds purpose and meaning for an individual person.
“The role of an occupational therapist is to find out what a person wants and needs to do, find out what the barriers are that make it difficult or impossible to do those things and then work on solutions.
Solutions can be helping the person recover physical, cognitive or emotional skills, adapting the environment or modifying what is done.
It sounds very simple, but there is a lot of theory and science in occupational therapy, which I find really stimulating.”
While Bethan's clinical experience spans care of the elderly, dementia services, stroke rehabilitation, rehabilitation of older people and working with younger people with physical disability, the profession itself is far broader, including physical and mental health, learning disability, physical and sensory disability and working with people of all ages.
“Occupational therapists can work with people whose daily lives are impacted by social, cultural or environmental factors that mean they can't do what they want and need to do.
I love the breadth of the profession,” Bethan says.
Bethan was recently invited to be the European editor of a new major occupational therapy textbook, Human Occupation: Contemporary concepts and lifespan perspectives , just published by Routledge.
This involved working with the editorial team to plan the contents of the book, recruiting authors for chapters, reviewing drafts of chapters, assigning peer reviews and working with the other editors from Australia, the USA and Canada to deliver the book.
She was also an author on two chapters.
Bethan explains: “The book is new for occupational therapy because it brings together different perspectives about human occupation that students and therapists can use to underpin their work.
Some of the chapters are critical and challenging and others pull together foundational knowledge in a way that is accessible to learners.
“I am particularly proud that, for the first time in a mainstream occupational therapy book, there is a specific chapter on critical disability studies perspectives and the impact of ableism on what people do in everyday life is included in several more chapters.”
Bethan continues: “I identify as a disabled person; I am blind and work a guide dog.
This integration and understanding of perspectives as a person with lived experience of disability with a professional perspective is central to my teaching and research.
There is still work to be done to enable equity for disabled people and a first step to equity involves people being aware of assumptions and barriers – we hope that this textbook will help make this a reality.”
Pictured below: Bethan holding a copy of the new textbook with Huntly, her guide dog, sat next to her

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/salford-researchers-join-the-cop-conversation-with-new-podcast-launch:
As policymakers descend on Baku, Azerbaijan for COP29 next week, the University of Salford’s sustainability, climate and environment experts will launch Talking COP , a brand-new podcast series that takes a deep dive into the issues shaping this year’s conference.
Launching on Monday 11 November, Talking COP will explore everything from the opportunities for decarbonisation and how technology can accelerate the road to net zero, to what should be front of mind when innovating sustainably, the role AI could play on tackling climate change and the impact of lacking gender equality in climate conversations.
Salford students, Victoria Coleman and Lily Mangan, as well as recent alumna, Liz Theaker, steer the conversations as hosts, getting the intel for audiences on addressing the global climate crisis from those at the forefront of driving a sustainable future for the next generation.
Guests include the researchers behind the University’s pioneering Energy House 2.0, as well as Associate Professors from Salford’s Centre for Sustainable Innovation, plus Bellway’s Jamie Bursnell, RSK’s Eloise Sochanik and Swiscot Group’s Rachael Shah, amongst others.
Dr Silvia Tedesco, Associate Professor of Sustainability at the University’s Centre for Sustainable Innovation, commented: “it really is crunch time on the environment agenda.
We’re on the cusp of climate disaster with the world’s carbon footprint at an all-time high.
There is however an opportunity for us to minimise the impact of climate change and COP29 is a critical opportunity for global leaders to make real change.
“Throughout the podcast, we delve deeper into the key issues being addressed at this year’s conference.
We also discuss the opportunities that are available for not only global leaders, but for businesses and consumers to also reduce their environmental footprint, while contributing to the shared goal of reaching net zero.”
According to the World Health Organization (WHO) 3.6 billion people already live in areas highly susceptible to climate change, and between 2030 and 2050 climate change is expected to cause approximately 250,000 additional deaths per year.
To add to this, data from the United Nations Environment Programme , highlights 30% of the world’s population is exposed to deadly heat waves more than 20 days a year.
Prof Mike Hardman, Professor of Urban Sustainability and Director of the Environmental Research & Innovation Centre (ERIC) at Salford, said: “it is vital that COP29 makes some progress on agreements around climate change if we are to avoid the most devastating impacts.
“Even then the whole world needs to prepare for the warming that is already coming.
Throughout this podcast we will look at how we can all do things to make a difference, particularly creative opportunities for our cities.” Talking COP will launch across all major podcasting platforms including Spotify , as well as YouTube , on Monday 11 November.
The eight-episode series will roll out on weekdays in tandem with this year’s conference.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/salford-academic-awarded-postdoctoral-fellowship-by-the-british-academy:
The British Academy has awarded 45 Postdoctoral Fellowships, worth over £15.9 million, to outstanding early career researchers in the SHAPE (social sciences, humanities, arts for people and economy) disciplines.
Among the successful research projects in this year’s cohort is a study of the experiences of social security claimants in the paid care sector by Dr David Young, Research Fellow in the Sustainable Housing & Urban Studies Unit at our School of Health and Society.
Funded by the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology, the Academy’s flagship Postdoctoral Fellowships scheme offers early career researchers the opportunity to strengthen their experience of research and teaching in an academic environment.
Funding is spread over a three-year period, with the goal of completing a significant piece of publishable research.
You can read more about David’s work below.
Caring about time and money: understanding the temporal experiences of in-work social security claimants in the paid care sector
A basic aim of the UK's social security system is to provide income security for those in and out of work with low or variable incomes.
However, policy, academic and public understandings of claimants’ finances and lives can be static, focusing on one point in time and unable to fully understand temporal aspects of working claimants’ lives.
This has led to policy design choices that do not reflect the realities of work for many.
This is especially problematic for adult social care sector workers, who face particular temporal challenges.
To address this knowledge gap, this fellowship will combine analysis of secondary data with new data from innovative financial diary methods to: (1) provide a new and wide-ranging temporal understanding of the experiences of working social security claimants in the paid care sector; and (2) support the advancement of methodological strategies to capture the temporal nature of working claimants' experiences.
David said: “Paid care sector workers play a vital role within our economy and society but often face low and unpredictable pay and related insecurity alongside claiming social security benefits.
My research will focus on what qualitative longitudinal and financial diary data can tell us about how changes in income, working hours and wider circumstances are experienced over time.
I will also seek to better understand how social security and labour market policy can address the insecurity of paid care sector workers and improve their lives.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/prof-mike-wood-appointed-associate-dean-research-and-innovation-for-school-of-science-engineering-and-environment:
The School of Science, Engineering and Environment at The University of Salford is pleased to announce that Professor Mike Wood has been appointed as Associate Dean Research and Innovation, after an extensive external recruitment process.
A key member of Salford’s research community for the past 13 years, Mike will take up his new role on September 30.
Before arriving at Salford, he worked at MMU and Liverpool, where he got his PhD in Environmental Science.
Mike is Professor of Applied Ecology at Salford, providing leadership across research and teaching through his roles as Head of Geography & Environmental Management and Director of the Environmental Research & Innovation Centre (ERIC).
He also holds various external roles, including being President-Elect of the Society of Radiological Protection and Associate Editor for the Journal of Environmental Radioactivity.
The primary focus of Mike's research is environmental pollution and its impacts on wildlife and people.
He has spent over two decades working on the development of the international environmental radiation protection system and conducting research into the effects of radiation across a variety of locations, including extensive work within the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone.
Mike is now leading research on the impacts of noise and light pollution on wildlife.
His work has been extensively published, widely cited and was submitted to REF2021 as a four-star impact case study.
In 2016, Mike won the Times Higher Education Research Project of the Year award for his work looking at the exclusion zone near the Chornobyl nuclear reactor.
He was also awarded the Founders' Medal for his services to radiation protection.
Mike is an experienced science communicator and regular keynote speaker.
His work in Ukraine has led to dozens of media appearances across the world, including BBC Breakfast, a BBC4 documentary screened internationally, Channel 4 News, ABC Australia, LBC, Radio 5 Live, Swiss National radio, TIME, New Scientist, The Telegraph, LA Times and many more.
On his appointment, Prof Wood said: “I am delighted to be taking on this role at such an exciting time for both the School and the University.
Substantial recent investment in SEE has provided fantastic facilities for collaborative research and innovation.
Coupled with our brilliant staff and students, and our external partners, we have the environment and expertise needed to tackle some of the biggest issues facing society.
I’m looking forward to shaping the next phase of the School’s research and innovation journey,  supporting our communities to gain maximum  impact from SEE’s vibrant innovation ecosystem.”
Interim Dean of the SEE School, Denise Rennie said: “I was delighted that Mike was identified as the best candidate for our ADRI role following a competitive recruitment round involving significant interest from external and internal applicants.
His career to date has included major collaborations with a network of colleagues in other Universities in the UK and internationally.
He has demonstrated leadership and impact through research, contributed to policy development, delivered innovative learning opportunities for students, and managed teams of researchers and teachers at Salford.
His wide experience and many successes give a firm foundation for his future contribution working as a member of the School Leadership Team and with others across the University in ensuring our preparedness for the REF 2029 and further in the future.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/research-culture/21-ways-our-university-fellows-are-shaping-the-world:
Our University Fellows are a group of 21 early career academics delivering transformational research across our four schools.
All of our University Fellows complement and extend research within our areas of expertise.
Supported and nurtured by the University environment, the fellows have a clear vision for their future leadership in research, which will involve developing new partnerships with public, business and third sector organisations, and innovating in research-led teaching.
For their first two years at Salford, the University Fellows are focussing exclusively on building their research profiles.
Explore the latest news from the University Fellows

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/research-culture/researcher-development-concordat:
We were one of the first UK institutions to be awarded the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research award in 2010.
Since then, we have prioritised our researcher development programmes, regularly evaluating what we do, which has ensured we continue to retain the award.
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers reporting
Since 2023, an annual report to our governing body (Research, Enterprise and Innovation Committee), has been produced, which includes our strategic objectives, measures of success, implementation plan and progress.
10 YEAR REVIEW (2010-2020) 12 YEAR REVIEW (2010-2022
8 YEAR REVIEW (2010-2018)
6 YEAR REVIEW (2010-2016)
4 YEAR REVIEW (2010-2014)
2 YEAR REVIEW (2010-2012)
ORIGINAL ACTION PLAN (2010)
GLOSSARY OF TERMS

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/research-culture/research-integrity:
The university is a signatory to the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity which seeks to provide a national framework for good research conduct and its governance.
In line with Concordat commitments, the university publishes an annual statement of compliance .
Academic Ethics Policy
Research Code of Practice
Research Misconduct Policy
You can apply for ethics review of a research project at, or on behalf of, the University of Salford, via the Infonetica ethics review system.
Infonetica can now be used by all colleagues and students when applying for ethics approval for any research project or commercial activity.
The system will provide supervisors and colleagues involved with the ethics process with oversight of applications, enabling them to complete an ethics review of these research studies.
If you haven’t applied before, you first may need to contact your institutional contact or you could email ethics@salford.ac.uk .
The Research Governance Manager is the institutional lead for national security in research matters, encompassing:
Contact the Research Governance Manager: re-export-nsi@salford.ac.uk
Overall responsibility for research integrity, governance and ethics sits with the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Enterprise.
Any internal or external questions around research integrity may be addressed in the first instance to the Research Governance and Policy Manager.
Contact the Research Governance and Policy Manager: research-governance@salford.ac.uk .
The Research Governance and Policy Manager, Rachael McKittrick, is the named person for receipt of allegations of misconduct in research.
Allegations of research misconduct should be sent in writing, with all available evidence, to: research-misconduct@salford.ac.uk .
Informal discussions about research governance and policy may be directed to the Research Governance and Policy team: research-governance@salford.ac.uk .
Our Whistleblowing Policy allows colleagues and postgraduate research students to raise concerns about actions or behaviour when, owing to the nature or severity of the issue, it would be inappropriate to use normal channels.
Disclosures to the whistleblowing reporting line can be made via a dedicated email account.
Please consult the policy for more information.
For more information about our research integrity and governance, please don't hesitate to get in touch.
research-governance@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate-research/masters-level-research-courses:
Find out more about our master's level courses that will give you the freedom to focus on your interests, while gaining a range of skills for your future career.
While taught master’s degrees typically involve attending lectures and being assessed by coursework and assignments, research master’s degrees consist of your own independent research project, on a topic of your choice, and are assessed by completing a written thesis.
As well as our dedicated research training programme , you will also have support from one or more supervisors with expertise and experience in a similar area of study.
In addition to honing your research skills, our MSc by research and MPhil programmes will give you a range of other transferable skills - from problem-solving and analytical skills to time management and self-discipline - all useful and applicable to many careers, whether in academia and research or elsewhere.
Both the MSc by research and MPhil programmes are usually one year of study for full-time students and two years if studying part-time.
They provide good preparation for postdoctoral study, giving you experience of what studying for a PhD might be like.
If you decide you’d like to continue with further study, there is the possibility to transfer to a PhD towards the end of your initial course.
You can do a research master's degree in any area where we have appropriate expertise to support your study.
Postgraduate research students will need to pay an annual tuition fee for their studies.
There are a range of funding options available including loans, scholarships and discounts, that could help with the cost of studying.
To apply for a master’s level research degree you will need to submit a research proposal which outlines the research project you would like to carry out.
Once you have thought about your research proposal, we recommend checking on 'our people' page and our research centres to make sure we have the relevant academic expertise in the field you’re interested in, as well as speaking to the school PGR team in the relevant subject area.
The full application process is done via an online application form.
To find out more about the process, including who to speak to for help, and tips on writing a research proposal, please visit our how to apply page.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate-research/doctoral-degrees:
Find out more about our doctoral degrees that will give you the freedom to focus on your own research interests, while gaining a range of skills to help you progress in your future career.
A PhD, or Doctor of Philosophy, is a type of doctoral degree recognised as one of the highest-level academic qualifications that can be awarded.
It's an entirely research-based degree which requires independent study in an area of your choice and results in an original contribution to your field.
You will be assessed by submitting a thesis and an oral examination (viva voce), where you’ll be required to defend your thesis to a panel of expert examiners.
A PhD usually takes three-four years to complete if studying full-time and up to seven years part-time.
It can be awarded in any subject area.
To apply for a PhD you will need to submit a research proposal which outlines the research project you would like to carry out.
Once you have thought about your research proposal, we recommend checking our staff page and research centres to make sure we have the relevant academic expertise in the field you’re interested in, as well as speaking to the school PGR team in the relevant subject area.
To find out more about the process, including who to speak to for help, and tips on writing a research proposal, go to our how to apply page.
We also advertise PhD opportunities for pre-defined research projects with a specified supervisor.
Take a look at our current PhD projects to see if any match your area of interest.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/creative-technologies-research-centre:
Creating a collaborative space for pioneering and shaping the future landscape of technology and creativity.
The Creative Technologies Research Centre (CTRC) is an interdisciplinary research community exploring the intersections between creative practice and emergent technology innovations.
The centre's main objective is to create a platform for the collaboration and advancement of research projects that creatively utilise technology in areas such as film, music, performance, broadcasting, games, immersive media, artificial intelligence and machine learning.
As an inherently interdisciplinary unit, the centre actively promotes collaboration with various communities, industry partners and other schools.
Our main goals are to:
Provide comprehensive support for the community of early-career and postgraduate researchers in the field of creative technologies, offering training, networking opportunities, and cultivating an inclusive research environment.
The cultural, communication and media research group (CCMRG) undertakes research in the conceptual, applied and practice-based aspects of culture, film and media with a focus on established and new digital media.
Our members explore aspects of digital culture and heritage; film and film production; and media industries and media systems, broadly defined.
Research in the CCM field at Salford dates back to 2001.
In the REF2021 exercise, 82% of the research submitted by Salford in the CCM field was graded internationally excellent or world leading.
The Music and Performance Research Group comprises practitioners of, and writers on, subjects related to music, theatre, drama and dance.
Members of the group actively compose music, write drama and comedy, perform and devise theatre, work in applied theatre and digital contexts, create technological applications, record and engineer sound, and write about all aspects of cultural theory related to these practices.
We are particularly adept at using collaborative and interdisciplinary and Practice as Research (PaR) methods in addressing research inquiries.
We have well-established creative and research partnerships with the BBC Philharmonic orchestra, Psappha, Manchester Collective, Imitating the Dog, Blast Theory, Triangle Theatre (UK) and Ridiculusmus (UK/Australia).
Our researchers act as consultants for the Blue Note recording label, as well as regularly having work broadcast on BBC Radio 3 and 4.
Nested Cinema
The Ballad of Isosceles
Virtual Rewilding
For more information, please contact: Dr Juan Hiriart - j.f.v.hiriart@salford.ac.uk
For more information, please contact:
Dr Juan Hiriart - j.f.v.hiriart@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/english-research-centre:
Making the study of literature, language and creativity relevant in a changing world
The group takes an innovative approach to research, combined with an engagement with communities beyond academia.
We explore hybrid and inter-disciplinary ways of working and in our examination of marginal, experimental and emergent practices.
We are concerned with looking at the overlooked and teasing out readings of neglected and/or transgressive authors and cultural practices.
From looking at writing conflict in Northern Ireland to Victorian Sensation fiction, from discontented minds in Early Modern Drama to the representation of serial killers in film and fiction, from African modernism to experimental poetry, from the hidden meanings of place names to discourse analysis – our work is searching, critically-engaged and culturally relevant.
We have three research groups: English Literature, English Language and Linguistics and Creative Practice.
English Literature research covers major periods and genres including Renaissance, Shakespeare, 18th-century Literature, and 20th and 21st-century poetry, drama and fiction.
English Language and Linguistics research is concerned with Pragmatics, Cognitive linguistics, Sociolinguistics, Stylistics, Lexicography, Onomastics and the study of the Scots language.
Creative Practice research is conducted in poetry, fiction, autobiography, biography, scriptwriting and performance.
We work with a wide range of stakeholders and collaborators including:
The research centre is also home to the Journal of British and Irish Innovative Poetry
Arts for the Blues: Evidence-based Creative Psychological Therapy for Depression
Peel Park Stories: A creative community project centred on creating a graphic n…
Some of our facilities where we conduct our impactful research...
The Morson Maker Space is a high-tech digital fabrication hub at the heart of the University, featuring the latest industry...
Explore our English Research blog to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please contact Professor Scott Thurston .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/practice-as-research:
We support, prompt and make visible Practice as Research activity across the research groups in the School of Arts, Media and Creative Technologies.
We aim to be at the forefront of current conversations in the wider field of practice-as-research, both strategically and methodologically, and to make this information accessible to university colleagues and postgraduate students.
The Centre also has a remit to champion and celebrate research-through-practice in its concomitant variety of formats and disciplines, through events such as seminars, workshops and publications and we are particularly interested in developing and supporting interdisciplinary and collaborative ways of working.
Finally, the Centre aims to increase the visibility of existing and developing Practice as Research enquiries in the School, and increase our knowledge of differing definitions of Practice as Research and how it is documented, disseminated and assessed.
This interdisciplinary Research and Knowledge Exchange Centre works with and across research groups within the Arts, Media and Creative Technologies School to fulfil its aims.
Activities for the Centre include:
Workshops or presentations from internal and external colleagues on Practice as Research methodology
Workshops or presentations on the presentation of Practice as Research for the Research Excellence Framework (REF) and funding bid purposes
Setting up and facilitating a collegiate network for reviewing Practice as Research outputs
Supporting and nurturing early-career and PG researchers in the development of Practice as Research projects
Advocating for the validity of these forms of research by seeking out models of good and successfully evaluated practice from other national and international institutions
The Dinner and Performance Project: Enhancing conversations around death and dy…
Dialogue as the embodiment of love: A trilogy of socially engaged work by Ridic…
Paynter: A digital platform for collaborative composition in the classroom
Explore our Practice as Research website to find out more about our recent projects.
Dr Alison E Matthews: a.e.matthews@salford.ac.uk Jill Randall: j.randall@salford.ac.uk
Dr Alison E Matthews: a.e.matthews@salford.ac.uk
Jill Randall: j.randall@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/politics-and-contemporary-history-research-centre:
Providing a vibrant interdisciplinary research community encompassing expertise within several areas of Politics and Contemporary History with a focus on Area Studies.
The Politics and Contemporary History (PCH) Research Centre focuses on a variety of political and historical themes.
The Centre has expertise in several areas within international relations and politics, particularly international security.
This includes terrorism and counter-terrorism; conflict, security and development; civil war studies; and counter-insurgency.
Other key areas of interest include international political economy; the media (including social media) and politics; European party politics; intelligence studies (including the history of intelligence); energy, climate and politics; and military history (especially land warfare, air power and theories of war).
Our research analyses several regions of the world, covering Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and Asia.
Politics and Contemporary History are viewed by the group as mutually reinforcing disciplines.
Contemporary History is defined in the more traditional sense of history since 1789.
Our political scientists appreciate the importance of historical background, while our historians are interested in applying historical knowledge and experience to contemporary problems and challenges.
The group welcomes cross- and interdisciplinary research projects.
The activities of the group and its development in recent years are influenced mostly within the field of ‘Area Studies’.
Several aspects of international security are researched within the Politics and Contemporary History Research Centre.
This includes terrorism and counter-terrorism; conflict, security and development; civil wars; and counter-insurgency.
Our scholars also investigate peace and peace processes; military interventions; inter-state interactions/diplomacy; globalisation and political violence; international political economy and conflict; extremism; and climate/energy policies and security.
Our research investigates various regions, particularly Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and Asia.
This includes analysis of key geo-political players in the international system, such as the US, China and Russia, as well as several case studies of countries such as Colombia, the UK/Northern Ireland, Sudan and Syria.
Our research is published in leading academic presses, such as Cambridge University Press, Palgrave Macmillan and Routledge, as well as leading peer-reviewed journals, including the Review of International Political Economy, New Political Economy, Small Wars and Insurgencies, Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Political Studies, Third World Quarterly, International Studies Review, and the Journal of Contemporary China.
Staff within this research theme have several external links, including the Standing Group on Political Violence within the European Consortium for Political Research, the International Centre for Countering Terrorism, and the Academic Network of UK’s Commission for Countering Extremism.
The University of Salford has a longstanding tradition of research and teaching about intelligence, espionage and national security.
A multidisciplinary field of research, Intelligence Studies encompasses a wide range of approaches to the subject, including the study of intelligence in its historical and contemporary dimensions, along with theoretical approaches to the subject.
Our research is published in the leading peer-reviewed academic journal in the field, Intelligence and National Security , and also in leading history journals, such as Diplomacy and Statecraft and the Historical Journal .
We regularly supervise PhDs in intelligence studies.
Recent projects include the history of the Security Executive during the 1940s; the work of the Information Research Department (IRD) in South America during the Cold War; the British intelligence community in the Balkans during the Second World War; and the Special Operations Executive (SOE) in the Global South during the Second World War.
We also engage with intelligence and security practitioners, in both the private and public sectors.
The university is part of the North West Partnership for Security and Trust (NWPST) and we have a relationship with Grey Dynamics .
Such relationships offer us the opportunity to consider academic perspectives on real-world intelligence problems.
Political communications research conducted in Area Studies at Salford focuses broadly on the role of the media in promoting or inhibiting democracy and democratic practice in a range of countries (notably UK, US, Russia), as well as examining the growing importance of social media in the political sphere.
In particular, the research conducted has two more specific themes:
Contemporary military history covers eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth century military history.
This includes the American and French Revolutionary Wars; command, technology and intelligence in the First and Second World Wars; strategic culture; air power; counterinsurgency; and comparative military history.
We combine a traditional emphasis upon military history – tactics, doctrine, logistics and technology – with a global and interdisciplinary approach that emphasises aspects of ‘new military history’ (e.g., war and society; the armed forces and popular culture; and the history of memory, race and gender).
Our research has a global remit, covering British, European, North American and Asian-Pacific military history.
Our researchers have published in leading academic presses, such as Cambridge University Press, as well as articles in leading peer-reviewed journals, including Historical Research , Diplomacy and Statecraft , the Journal of Strategic Studies , the Journal of Military History , Small Wars & Insurgencies , War in History , and War & Society .
They have also been the recipients of prestigious academic prizes, such as the Royal Historical Society’s Whitfield Book Prize.
Staff within this field have links to several external organisations, including the Army Records Society, the British Commission for Military History, and the German Armed Forces Centre for Military History and Social Sciences, Potsdam.
Explore our Politics and Contemporary History Research Centre website to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please contact: Dr David Maher: d.j.maher@salford.ac.uk
Dr David Maher: d.j.maher@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/centre-for-sustainable-innovation-csi:
Supporting the business community to adopt sustainable solutions and digital technologies in order for them to innovate and prosper.
At the Centre for Sustainable Innovation (CSI) , we are dedicated to catalysing positive change and fostering sustainable growth for businesses.
Our mission is to be the leading hub for sustainable business practices and digital transformation.
We aim to be the catalyst for integrating cutting edge technology and world leading research into the Greater Manchester business community and beyond.
We achieve this by strengthening industry partnerships, collaborating closely with local businesses and entrepreneurs to drive innovation.
Our commitment extends beyond profit, aiming to create significant socio-economic and environmental impact on both local and national levels.
At the Centre for Sustainable Innovation, we recognise the paramount importance of digital transformation in shaping the future of business.
Our team of experts is committed to working closely with our partners, ensuring the seamless integration of cutting-edge technologies, optimisation of operational processes, and elevation of customer experiences.
Through tailored digital strategies, we aim to empower businesses to navigate the intricate digital landscape successfully.
From the implementation of innovative software solutions to harnessing the full potential of data analytics, we guide businesses toward a future where they not only endure but thrive in this dynamic and evolving digital age.
Change is inevitable, especially in the dynamic landscape of modern business.
We specialise in change management, ensuring that our partners effectively navigate transitions, mergers, and restructuring processes.
Our holistic approach involves strategic planning, employee engagement, and stakeholder communication.
We help organisations to embrace change positively, fostering a culture of adaptability and resilience.
By providing tailored solutions and ongoing support, we enable businesses to manage change seamlessly, leading to sustainable growth and enhanced competitiveness.
At the Centre for Sustainable Innovation (CSI), sustainability is not merely a goal; it’s the essence of our mission.
Positioned in a world where businesses embracing sustainable practices flourish, we serve as a catalyst for positive change.
Our collaborative approach builds partnerships with businesses, academics, and policymakers, steering the way toward net zero.
With a diverse set of expertise, from assessing environmental footprints to crafting tailored sustainability strategies and executing green initiatives, we empower businesses to achieve their sustainability milestones.
Innovation Labs
AI Foundry
Open SME on-demand training
Explore our Centre for Sustainable Innovation website to find out more about our recent projects and how we can support you.
For more information, please get in touch: Email: sustainable-innovation@salford.ac.uk
Email: sustainable-innovation@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/business-and-management-research-centre:
Fostering a new vision of innovative and entrepreneurial leadership that values the human and embraces the digital to meet the challenges and opportunities of the twenty-first century.
The Business and Management Research Centre covers all aspects of business and law research conducted within Salford Business School.
We view innovation in the broadest sense and our research incorporates:
Business and law research incorporates social science, doctrinal and science based research approaches.
Our researchers incorporate perspectives relating to the sociology of organisations, the regional, national and international economy and the use of applied statistics through management science techniques.
Salford Business School's research spans across a range of areas:
For more information about this centre, please contact: Gordon Fletcher Associate Dean Research and Innovation g.fletcher@salford.ac.uk
For more information about this centre, please contact:
Gordon Fletcher Associate Dean Research and Innovation

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/school-health-society/postgraduate-research:
Proudly positioned at the forefront of research and innovation in health and social care, we are passionate about nurturing the next generation of researchers.
Collaborative.
Industry-focused.
Friendly and supportive.
That’s our approach.
Read on and explore how we can help you achieve your research goals.
Research is rewarding - and challenging.
What you need to succeed is focus, determination - and a supportive team to motivate, guide and inspire you.
The Doctoral School at Salford delivers world-class training and support tailored to your individual needs.
We look for development opportunities that enable you to fulfil your potential.
We are committed to creating a supportive and collaborative environment where researchers from all backgrounds can fulfil their potential.
We align our training and development activities to the principles in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers .
Our long-term commitment is recognised at the European level through the HR Excellence in Research award , renewed again in 2018.
A typical Salford research candidate?
There’s no such thing.
What connects our research community is our passion to explore.
To question the world around us.
To discover together.
If you’ve got these attributes, you’ll fit right in.
Follow our community on social.
Our Salford Postgraduate Annual Research Conference (SPARC), is a popular two-day event that brings together our postgraduate research students and research community to showcase their work and exchange ideas.
Find out more about the event
A postgraduate research degree with Salford is a rewarding investment in your future.
Learn more about postgraduate research opportunities by visiting our next open day.
You can speak directly to research team leaders, ask questions and consider your options.
Within our dedicated research centres, our postgraduate research community explores a range of topics which focus on supporting the development of positive changes in health, wellbeing and society.
Centre for Human Movement and Rehabilitation
The focus of our Centre for Human Movement and Rehabilitation is to address global health challenges which limit mobility and prevent people from living independently.
This includes research into rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases, long-term conditions - such as limb loss, diabetes and strokes – as well as health problems associated with ageing.
Centre for Applied Health Research
The Centre for Applied Health Research is a multidisciplinary research centre involving experts in nursing, allied health, public health, diagnostic imaging, psychology, mental health and digital information systems.
Our research is largely applied in nature and often uses technology and digital solutions to solve real-world problems and make positive changes within society, both nationally and internationally.
Our multidisciplinary themes cover broad areas including: Care across the life course, digital health and medical imaging, health equity and inequalities, long term conditions and mental health and neurodiversity.
Centre for Research on Inclusive Society
The work of our Centre for Research on Inclusive Society focuses on social inclusion and exclusion and advancing knowledge on inclusive policies and practices.
Our research aims to influence policy development and social change to improve equality and inclusion.
We explore this through six key thematic areas: environment, sustainability and society; work and welfare; criminal justice deviance and victimology; digital society; inclusivity, equity and belonging; and people, space and place.
Ready to make a research application?
There are a number of things you will need to consider, such as study documentation, your research proposal, entry points and funding.
We've put together a summary to give your application every chance of success.
Read the latest research news from our School of Health and Society.
We are proud to announce that Salford is up for two awards in the upcoming Times Higher Education (THE) Awards.
Widely regarded as...
Welcoming 120 attendees from more than 25 countries over three days, the first-of-its-kind conference, held at the University of...
Mothers who are in prison, or on release, who are also victims or survivors of domestic violence and abuse (DVA), are being let...
A team from the University of Salford has returned from a trip to Uganda, which saw them make great progress in tackling...
A team who are improving the digital healthcare skills of nursing students have been shortlisted for one of the profession’s top...
Research led by the University of Salford is building a case for the benefits system to consider the impact of trauma on those who...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/centre-for-applied-health-research:
Working across professions and disciplines to conduct research that addresses challenges across health, well-being and social care.
The Centre for Applied Health Research (CAHR) works across professions and disciplines to conduct and support research that addresses challenges across health, well-being and social care.
Funded by Research Councils, local authorities, NHS bodies and charities, our work covers digital health and imaging, long term conditions, care across the life course, mental health and neurodiversity and health equity and inequalities.
We work closely and collaboratively with service users and partners across the NHS, local authorities, the third sector and commercial organisations to ensure our work is relevant and feeds into practice and policy at local, national and international levels.
Our researchers are experts in nursing, allied health, public health, diagnostic imaging, psychology, mental health and digital information systems, with our research largely applied in nature - often using technology and digital solutions to solve real world problems and make positive changes within society.
Some of our recent impactful work has included the use of social media to improve self-management, our digital imaging research improving breast cancer diagnosis, and work in global health that has led to systems changes in LMICs for cervical screening and antimicrobial resistance.
Care across the Life course encompasses research across various stages of life or population groups and covers multiple disciplines across health and social care.
For example, it seeks to develop the evidence base of fundamental areas of nursing care including tissue viability, wound care, the care of non-ventilated COVID patients, mortality and morbidity associated and the care of older women with urinary incontinence, frailty and cardiothoracic surgery.
Professional learning is key to providing high quality care and forms an important area of work for this theme including, for example a project which establishes and assesses the impact of an interprofessional student training environment for university students from a range of professional health and social care programmes working in the care home sector.
Funding associated with this group originates from the Medical Research Council (MRC), National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and NHS Health Education England.
Digital transformation of health remains a priority for UK policy and strategy, such as the NHS long term plan, the Topol review and priorities around recovery to support the health and social care system after the COVID-19 pandemic.
Digital applications provide new and sustainable ways of building capacity and capability in public health and social care systems.
It improves the lives of people with long-term conditions and brings applied research to underserved communities with major health needs and provides opportunities for different ways of working, inclusivity and reducing health inequalities.
Our work in this area includes transdisciplinary collaborations across the health and social care professions.
It looks at information science and digital and social media to improve access to health and social care information to enable and support people to manage their own health.
We work with teaching colleagues to provide innovative programmes of digital education to improve the digital skills of the healthcare workforce, and the optimisation of medical imaging technologies to improve the technical and physical aspects of imaging as well as patient care and staff experience.
Funding in this area has been received from NIHR, Health Education England, Salford Clinical Commissioning Group, NHS X, Kidney Care UK.
The Covid-19 pandemic highlighted the disparities that exist within society for vulnerable and marginalised groups and communities.
Spanning two research centres (The Centre for Applied Health Research and the Centre for Research on Inclusive Society), this theme brings together an interdisciplinary team of researchers from social policy, social work, nursing and public health.
The research covers two areas.
The first area is health inequalities and health inclusion.
This is concerned with contemporary aspects of health and wellbeing such as improving care and outcomes for excluded groups such as gypsies and travellers, migrants and those experiencing the most extreme forms of social exclusion such as people who are homeless, prisoners, drug users and sex workers.
This theme also includes international work in low and middle incomes countries exploring issues such maternal health and disability (lower limb loss).
The second, is focused on understanding experiences of inclusivity, equity, and belonging across society and its institutions, with a view to shaping cultures, policy, and practice.
This research is animated by questions of how difference, belonging, and identity are negotiated and the challenges this presents.
Specifically, our research focus includes Islamophobia, race and racism, decolonisation, health equity, disability, citizenship, gender, marginalisation, exclusion and intersectionality.
Research in these areas is funded by the NIHR, World Health Organisation (WHO), AHRC, EPSRC and the Department of Health and Social Care
Long-term conditions (LTC) are increasingly prevalent, both in the UK and globally.
Conditions include chronic kidney disease, arthritis, asthma, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, cardiovascular diseases, mental health and cancer.
Many people live for many years with a LTC, creating new opportunities and challenges for knowledge and research.
Research conducted within this theme aims to improve people’s ability to manage their long-term conditions and improve their quality of life as well as reducing demand on health and social services.
This includes personal exercise rehabilitation in relation to people with multi-morbidities, a population health management tool for social prescribing, kidney patients’ experiences of care, renal practice and older persons experience of kidney care.
A key focus of work in this theme is transdisciplinary research bringing together digital and social media expertise with clinicians and health information specialists to aid self-management for kidney care, multiple sclerosis and diabetes.
Research in this area has been funded by NIHR, the Technology Strategy Board, Kidney Research UK, Salford Clinical Commissioning Group, NHS X, Kidney Care UK.
Mental health disorders are among the top ten leading causes of disease burden worldwide, with no evidence of global reduction and some evidence to suggest an increase in prevalence.
Whilst neurodiversity and neurodevelopmental conditions such as autism are not mental illnesses, the challenges faced by neurodiverse people having to navigate system designed for neurotypical populations can greatly increase the risk of them experiencing associated mental distress and disorders.
This interdisciplinary research focuses on improving services and outcomes for those vulnerable to or experiencing mental health problems or those with neurodevelopmental differences.
Our work around mental health comprises a programme of research committed to preventing mental illness, improving the mental health of those experiencing problems and their families and promoting mental wellbeing.
This includes developing understanding and approaches to enable effective mental health nurse interventions and using creative and psychological therapies to treat depression.
Our research around neurodevelopmental conditions focuses on autism and Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD).
In particular providing world leading research to understand the cause and impact of FASD and developing ways of supporting families and carers of people with FASD, and those within the criminal justice system.
Research in this area has been funded by MRC, NIHR, Burdett Trust, The Wellcome Trust and the AHRC
Kidney Information Network
HOME model (Out of hospital discharge for homeless)
Explore our Centre for Applied Health Research website to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please contact: Professor Alison Brettle, Director of The Centre for Applied Health Research: a.brettle@salford.ac.uk
Professor Alison Brettle, Director of The Centre for Applied Health Research: a.brettle@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/centre-for-research-on-inclusive-society:
The Centre for Research on Inclusive Society (CRIS) is a multidisciplinary research centre dedicated to advancing knowledge on inclusive policies and practices.
The aim of the centre is to foster interdisciplinary research on social in/exclusion broadly defined, and to produce evidence-based research that informs policy development and social change towards a more inclusive society.
The research in the centre is based on a diverse range of methodological approaches, utilising various traditions and innovative methods to advance knowledge and understanding.
We work closely with external organisations, including local authorities, housing providers, the voluntary and community sector, and government.
Whilst locally rooted, we are active in several national and international partnerships in the UK, Europe and beyond.
The Criminal Justice, Deviance and Victimology area of research represents world leading and internationally excellent critical scholarship by a diverse team of researchers united by their interests in crime, victimisation, discrimination, criminal justice and human rights.
Researchers engage in explaining criminal and deviant behaviour, its impact upon victims as well as understanding criminal justice processes, institutions and professions to improve experiences, outcomes and policies.
We have developed close working relationships with key policy makers and practitioners enabling positive impact across criminal justice systems.
The theme represents multiple research methodologies and theoretical traditions drawing upon the expertise of members which includes youth justice, policing, incarceration, socio-legal perspectives, desistance, restorative justice, discrimination and social harm.
Our work in this area considers environmental challenges within the context of social justice.
Particular areas of enquiry include energy-efficient home retrofit, energy poverty, sustainable and active travel, greenspace and wellbeing, and urban food growing.
These are understood alongside contemporary societal themes including migration, poverty, integration and inclusion.
We work at a range of scales from the home, through the neighbourhood and community, to the city region and the rural, bringing to the fore how spaces and places are made, contested and lived.
Drawing on mobilities and sustainable practices, ethnography, human geography and cultural sociology, we are interested in the development of socio-spatial methodologies that centre human experiences of the built and natural environment.
This research area examines the multifaceted dimensions of equity, inequality, inclusivity, and belonging within the framework of contemporary societal structures and institutional paradigms.
Spanning two Research and Knowledge Exchange Centres (The Centre for Applied Health Research and the Centre for Research on Inclusive Society), this theme brings together an interdisciplinary team of researchers from sociology, social policy, social work, criminology, nursing and public health.
The research covers two interrelated areas.
One strand focusses on understanding experiences of inclusivity, equity, and belonging across society and its institutions, with a view to shaping cultures, policy, and practice.
Specifically, our research focus includes Islamophobia, race and racism, decolonisation, citizenship, gender, marginalisation, exclusion and intersectionality.
Another strand focusses upon health inequities and health inclusion.
This is concerned with contemporary aspects of health and well-being such as improving care and outcomes for excluded groups such as Gypsy, Roma, Travellers, migrants and those experiencing the most extreme forms of social exclusion such as people who are homeless, people who are in or have been in prison, people who use drugs and sex workers.
This theme also includes international work in low and middle incomes countries exploring issues such maternal health and disability and child protection.
This area focuses on interpreting and creatively responding to the opportunities and challenges posed by the increasing digitisation of industry, governance, and everyday life.
The Digital Society theme examines on the transformations underway in various aspects of social life due to the proliferation of new technologies.
In particular, the 'digital' relates to the profound shift that has been underway since the mid-2000s whereby much of social life became increasingly mediated by digital platforms such as social media, and digital devices such as the smartphone.
This process continued to accelerate during the Covid19 pandemic where learning and working became for many a 'remote' experience with lasting effects.
Researchers in this area therefore pay close attention to the relationship between 'digitisation' and (1) areas of personal life: from childhood, families and health, to identities, relationships and sexuality; and (2) areas of public life: from communities, leisure activities and consumption, to citizenship, work, and political activism.
Research in this theme also examines the ways in which digital technologies are changing the nature of academic research itself, exploring new methodologies and assessing the ethics of Big Data.
The focus of this research area is understanding experiences of work and welfare to address issues of poverty, social exclusion and poor mental health and wellbeing.
Our research in this area is helping to provide a policy and practice relevant up to date evidence base on the experiences of groups within welfare systems and labour markets and analysis of large and complex datasets.
Established in 1996, the Sustainable Housing and Urban Studies Unit (SHUSU) is a multidisciplinary research group hosted within the Centre for Research on Inclusive Society.
The work of SHUSU reflects the complex and interconnected challenges faced by contemporary society.
These challenges include ensuring fair access to housing, equitable welfare systems and services, population mobility, positive social relations within communities, environmental sustainability and inclusive growth.
SHUSU brings together internationally renowned researchers as part of a multidisciplinary team.
Our expertise is drawn from social policy, sociology, urban geography, housing management, psychology, sustainability, health, social care and social work.
We are actively engaged in research that highlights the processes, outcomes and impacts of marginalisation on individuals and communities.
SHUSU members contribute to CRIS themes.
The International Self-Report Study of Delinquency
The Sanctions, Support and Service Leavers project
Explore our Centre for Research on Inclusive Society website to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please contact the centre's co-directors: Dr Daiga Kamerāde: d.kamerade2@salford.ac.uk Professor Lisa Scullion: l.scullion@salford.ac.uk
For more information, please contact the centre's co-directors:
Dr Daiga Kamerāde: d.kamerade2@salford.ac.uk
Professor Lisa Scullion: l.scullion@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/school-of-science-engineering-and-environment/postgraduate-research-in-the-school-of-science-engineering-and-environment:
The School of Science, Engineering and Environment is the largest school at the University of Salford.
More than 300 postgraduate researchers (PGRs) research with us.
We offer Full and Part-time PhD programmes as well as split-site and distance learning opportunities.
Our innovative MPhil programme is designed to transition students from the guided module-structure towards independent learning and researching and our MSc students are supported acquiring the skills needed for a successful transition into a workplace of their choosing.
Choosing to complete postgraduate research at the University of Salford opens the door to fantastic opportunity and comes with a myriad of support, including:
In the School of Science, Engineering and Environment, you'll study in world-class research facilities and have access to industry-leading researchers to help and support you throughout your postgraduate research journey.
Find out more in our SEE PGR brochure .
Review the profiles of our researchers who can be approached with a project proposal (not mandatory): View our staff or visit our Worktribe site .
Find guidance on how to write your research proposal.
For more information on how to write an acceptable proposal, or to enquire about a webinar, please email SEEproposalwritingpgr@salford.ac.uk .
Ready to apply?
Find out more about the process on our how to apply page.
If you have any questions or queries about your application, you can email pgr-supportssee@salford.ac.uk .
Wondering how long the process is?
Watch the below video to find out more:
SEE's PGR Training & Development Programme is a complementary set of sessions open for all SEE PGR students where we provide SEE-specific support alongside your journey.
The Nourishing City: Creating healthy, happy and nutritious cities
Autonomous Vehicles at Airports
Analysis of spin-trapped free radicals in bacterial cells using mass spectromet…
Read stories from our Science, Engineering and Environment students.
Raymond Ada, student at the University of Salford, attended the Spring Meeting of the British Society for Parasitology (BSP).
Read...
Aveen Sabir presented her work at the Microbiology Society annual conference.
Read on to hear more.
Piyawan Srikongpan, a final year postgraduate student at the University of Salford, presented his paper at the International...
Levi Kaganowich, PGR student at the University of Salford, was invited to speak at the British Applied Mathematics Colloquium...
Harshi Bamunuachchige presented her work at The Kandy conference.
On 17 February 2025, Jerome Anokwu presented his paper at the Society of Plastic Engineers (SPE) International Polyolefins...
PGR students work together with our researchers in world-leading facilities such as the Energy House Labs, The ThinkLab, NERIC - our robotics centre - and laboratories for acoustics, civil engineering, biomedicine and environmental sciences to name a few.
PGR students are an integral part of our research and academic teams.
They have the opportunity to act as demonstrators in laboratories where they support undergraduate students, are encouraged to attend academic conferences with a generous conference fund and have the opportunity to chair a session at our International PGR conference (PGRC)
The Acoustics Research Centre is a large acoustics group.
Much of our research combines work in physical sciences and engineering, with sound perception by humans and other animals.
We work to improve health, wellbeing and accessibility, for example by reducing the harms caused by noise.
We also work closely with industry, government and third-sector organisations to make a better sounding future.
Our postgraduate research is supported by extensive laboratories include anechoic chambers, reverberation chambers and listening rooms.
The research centre runs two large doctoral training programmes.
These are the Leverhulme Doctoral Training Hub in Aural Diversity (LAURA) and the ESPRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Sustainable Sound Futures .
Both of these fund PhD places.
The Biomedical Research and Innovation Centre [BRIC] brings together a collaborative community of scientists who address critical challenges faced by society.
Our research spans fundamental and applied aspects of bioscience research across a number of broad themes such as Microbial Communities, Cardio-Respiratory Physiology and Pathology, Cancer Diagnosis and Prevention, Ageing and Dementia, Infectious Diseases.
We deliver world-class, interdisciplinary research which potentially benefits people’s lives; through tackling anti-microbial resistance, repurposing drugs for the treatment of malaria to identifying mechanisms, markers and molecules which can be used for prediction, diagnosis, therapy or prognosis.
BRIC works closely with commercial, academic and healthcare partners across local, national, and international regions, including Europe, Asia, Africa.
We are a named partner of the Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Catalyst (IBIC) which spans disciplinary and sector boundaries to accelerate knowledge exchange, development of skills and innovation.
Our research community works to support internationality and includes people from diverse backgrounds and identities to achieve their research goals.
The Environmental Research & Innovation Centre (ERIC) has some 200 members and focuses on advancing the understanding of key environmental challenges of major economic and societal importance in the 21st century.
The Centre has four main Research Groups: The Biodiversity Research Group, Pollution Research Group (PuRe), Green, Grow & Thrive Catalyst (GGTC) and Postgraduate Research Group.
Alongside these groups are an array of supporting innovation units, such as Ignition, ThinkLab, Energy House and more.
In addition to our Research Groups and innovation units , ERIC has access to an array of other unique resources.
The Cockroft building – our laboratory building – provides the facilities to support postgraduate students to produce innovative research on topics such as: infectious and zoonotic diseases, fisheries management, green infrastructure, pollution and biodiversity and conservation.
We work across the globe with strong links with the Amazon in Brazil, across Europe, North America, a variety of sub-Saharan African countries and further afield.
Projects address, for example, antibiotic resistance, using Virtual Reality to explore ecology in Chernobyl, understanding of primate evolution, greening and growing in cities, soil, air and noise pollution and much more.
Researchers in ERIC work closely with colleagues in the Biomedical Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC) and other centres across the institution.
Research at the Informatics Research Centre evolves around data and information in all their types and usages.
Researchers at this centre cover all phases and processes from data pre-processing to engineering and visualisation.
In doing so, the centre is developing novel methods and systems for the analysis and recognition of various data sets, learning behaviours and causal models.
The results are techniques and systems that have a range of potential applications, from digitisation of historical documents, medical diagnosis, and text mining to retrieval and data visualisation.
Forensic computing, digital investigation, and Cyber security are additional areas of expertise of researchers at the Informatics Research Centre .
The Centre for Future Engineering is known for working across the fields of mechanical, aeronautical, aerospace, photonics, microsystems and civil engineering, robotics and automation and advanced materials.
Researchers collaborate closely with industry partners and foster interdisciplinary approaches to address real-world engineering challenges.
Research topics investigated by PGRs have included autonomous vehicle development, sustainable construction methods, innovative materials, and advancements in renewable energy technologies, digital innovation, and environmental engineering.
The centre is actively pursuing these research topics, and more are added through the North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC).
NERIC is a research facility that focuses on the rapidly growing robotics and automation sectors and translates pioneering research in engineering into cost-effective solutions for industry.
Robots provide aid for work that is dangerous, repetitive, dirty, and difficult.
Researchers at NERIC explore and drive the future of robotics together with industry partners who share the goal to explore how robots can drive productivity.
The Energy House Laboratories are one-of-a-kind, world-leading research facilities that are forging the way in making our buildings carbon neutral.
Through commercial and grant funded research, Energy House Laboratories helps businesses understand how effective their products and services are in lowering consumers’ carbon footprint and reducing energy bills.
Learn more about our advance materials and manufacturing facilities .
The research centre Built and Human Environments encompasses a broad range of research facilities and researchers.
Among them are teams at IGNITION Living Lab and THINKlab.
At the IGNITION Nature Based Solutions (NBS) Living Lab, research tackles the climate emergency using Green Infrastructure (GI) experimentation technologies.
The Mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, appraised the lab as “…epitomising the kind of vision and innovation that Greater Manchester does best.
… right now we are at the forefront of a new industrial revolution in sustainable technologies here in the North West.” Living Lab is an exciting development at the University of Salford campus demonstrating cutting edge green infrastructure technologies that continue to provide data for further research on hydrology, biodiversity and heat transmission through the structures, as well as how people interact with those installed green infrastructures.
More information on the IGNITION lab and its director Prof Hisham Elkadi.
THINKlab is a facility where research is produced that contributes to managing the effects of global warming, developing cities and economies sustainably, and determining how to best care for an ageing population.
Because these areas are predominantly advantaged through innovative approaches through developments driven by governments, industry, and researchers, the THINKlab team collaborates with a range of academic and commercial partners.
Individual project teams investigate questions on how Resilient Cities and Smart Cities are effectively developed with the help of the lab and its unique services and creative facilities.
The overarching goal of the THINKlab is to provide an atmosphere of collaboration and co-creation pursuant of the goal of advancing digital innovation to solve global challenges.
Learn more about the THINKlab and its director Professor Terrence Fernando and the technical director Dulcidio Coelho.
Follow our community on social Follow @SalfordPGRS .
Find out more about the research event .
Read the latest research news from our School of Science, Engineering and Environment at the University of Salford Manchester.
Fossils of an ancient relative of the koala help to solve another part of the puzzling evolution of Australia’s unique marsupials...
Outbreaks of a life-threatening disease caused by a tapeworm could be being driven by climate change and events such as El Niño, a...
A pioneering live test of a selection of new alert sounds for e-scooters is taking place on UK streets for the first time.
Dott...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/autonomous-systems-advanced-robotics-asar:
ASAR is an internationally leading Research Centre with excellence in Soft Robotics, AI, embodied intelligence and cognition, automation, robot/machine design, dexterous end effectors, legged robots, biologically-inspired robots, haptics/telepresence, Human Robot Interaction, rehabilitation robotics, cognitive robotics and uninhabited autonomous systems.
The Centre has secured awards from the EU Framework Programmes for R&I (FP5, FP6 and FP7), EPSRC, MRC, MOD, Innovate UK, and the Regional Growth Fund (RGF) and has delivered many research initiatives in application areas including Nuclear, Food, Rail, Agriculture, Aerospace & Defence, Healthcare and Automotive.
ASAR has internationally recognised research excellence in Robotics & Artificial Intelligence (RAI).
It was appointed the home of the National Advanced Robotics Research Centre in 1987 and was the founding member of the Northern Robotics Network, which became the National Robotics Network (NRN).
ASAR is a spoke of the EPSRC Future AI & Robotics for Space Hub, a UK national centre of research excellence in space robots and AI funded through the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund.
ASAR is at the forefront of strategic research initiatives funded by the EPSRC, the EU Framework Programmes for R&I, UK Government Departments (BEIS and Defra) and industry.
Our research has been applied in a range of sectors including automotive and aerospace manufacturing, nuclear decommissioning, space exploration, food production, agriculture and in health and social care.
More about Autonomous Systems and Robotics research at the University of Salford
Postgraduate Research Opportunities
Search our Staff Directory

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/informatics-research-centre:
Building on the history, success and achievements of the research in Computer Science and Information Systems developed at the University of Salford over the last thirty years.
Evolving around Data and Information in all their types and usages, the Centre covers all phases and processes from data pre-processing to engineering and visualisation.
The Centre is developing novel methods and systems for the analysis and recognition of various data sets, learning behaviours and causal models.
The techniques and systems developed have a wide range of potential applications including digitisation of historical documents, medical diagnosis, semantic tagging, segmentation of types of viewers and their behaviours, text mining and retrieval and data visualisation.
Forensic computing, digital investigation and Cyber security is another area of expertise supported by the Centre both at the theoretical and application levels.
The Centre's research covers the following topics:
Europeana Newspapers
Prima Research
Explore our Informatics website to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please contact Dr Julian M.
Bass.
Dr Julian Bass is a professor, who is programme leader for the MSc in Software Engineering.
Email: j.bass@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/biomedical-research-and-innovation-centre:
The Biomedical Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC) brings together a vibrant and collaborative community of scientists to address critical challenges faced by society.
Our research spans fundamental and applied aspects of bioscience research across a number of broad themes.
We aim to deliver world-class, interdisciplinary research which benefits people’s lives.
BRIC works closely with commercial, academic, and healthcare partners across local, national, and international regions, including Europe, Asia, Africa and other parts of the world.
We welcome new partners to join us.
We value and support research, which is collegiate and ambitious, as well as the delivery of world-leading outputs and impact.
This is based upon quality not quantity, in line with our adoption of DORA .
BRIC strives to create an environment where all researchers feel valued, can contribute and participate.
Together, we will support and intentionally include people from diverse backgrounds and identities to achieve their research ambitions.
Most researchers make contributions to a number of research areas within the centre.
Researchers also work closely with colleagues in the Environmental Research and Innovation Centre as well as the wider university, and as part of national and international collaborations.
We have a growing community of Post Graduate Researchers working under the supervision of our colleagues.
Our diverse expertise spans the spectrum from characterising biological mechanisms and population dynamics of individual microbial species, to unpicking the complexities of microbiome communities and their interactions with humans, animals, and the environment.
Our researchers work closely with ERIC, as well as the wider university, and as part of national and international collaborations.
Through our research we will better understand and tackle key themes such as antimicrobial resistance, climate change and infectious disease transmission, host-pathogen interactions, and bacteriophages.
We are working collaboratively with others to develop microbial biotechnology applications in health and industry, including the food industry.
Funding: Research is supported by, amongst others, BBSRC, NERC, Knowledge for Change, Gates Foundation.
Collaborators: We collaborate nationally and internationally, including with Kenyan Medical Research Institute (KEMRI), Antimalarial Campaign Kenya, Center for Drug Research India, Makerere University, Uganda.
The University of Liverpool, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine.
Our members share a common goal; to undertake highly translational laboratory-based cardiovascular and respiratory research.
Revealing detailed patho-physiological mechanisms at cell / tissue level underpins the group’s main agendas:
Research is supported by a number of organisations including British Lung foundation, British Heart Foundation, Kidscan, collaboration with Blackpool Foundation Trust, Manchester Foundation Trust, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital and Northern Care Alliance.
This group brings together researchers who apply their expertise in drug discovery and repurposing, and diagnostic tools, to a diverse range of diseases.
Chemists, biologists and modellers work collaboratively (and across subareas) to identify diagnostic biomarkers, as well as repositioning, repurposing, and designing therapies.
We have published work in several areas including trauma, infectious diseases, cancer, dementia, and cardiovascular disease.
We collaborate with a number of organisations including Protein Technologies Ltd (Manchester Science Park), GSK Tres Cantos, Madrid Spain, Aspen Pharmacare Ltd, Durban, South Africa, Central Manchester Foundation Trust and the Salford Royal Foundation Trust.
This ‘bench-to-bedside’ area works from cells to clinical trials to improve the diagnosis and management of a broad range of human cancers.
Our multi-disciplinarity allows our researchers to work collaboratively on a major global health challenge.
This area of research is supported by the Fox Point foundation and Lunella Biotech spin-out pharma company, co-founded by Sotgia and Lisanti to develop new therapeutic strategies for cancer.
Our research is underpinned by national and international collaboration, including Vietnam, Thailand, Italy and the USA.
We work with clinical partners across the Northwest, such as Blackpool Victoria Teaching Hospital, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital and Wythenshawe Hospital (part of the Manchester Foundation Trust).
This group’s focus is on finding innovative diagnostics and innovations to address the challenges of ageing and dementia.
Identifying biomarkers, understanding pathophysiological changes, developing experimental models and discovering new therapies underpin research interests of our researchers.
Research is supported by Alzheimer's Research UK and Alzheimer’s society.
This area of research also focuses on science communication, bioethics, digital media, eSport and drones.
Tackling the Global Challenge of AMR
Catalysing Change in Chemical Sciences
We have invested in facilities and infrastructure to support our wide areas of biomedical research spanning pharmaceutical science, human physiology, infectious diseases research, clinical and molecular genetics, medical biochemistry and clinical immunology.
Our translational medicine (TM) laboratory and research corridor are home to dedicated facilities for tissue culture, microbiology, molecular biology and biochemistry.
Research infrastructure in the Centre was developed through multi-million pounds of investment resulting in creation of the Bodmer laboratory and translation medicine (TM) laboratories, teaching and research facilities for the School of Science, Engineering and Environment.
This environment can support wide areas of biomedical research spanning pharmaceutical science, human physiology, infectious diseases research, clinical and molecular genetics, medical biochemistry and clinical immunology.
Supported by research technicians, we train our research students to use modern, leading-edge laboratory equipment:
Explore our Biomedical Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC) website to find out more about our recent projects.
For more information, please contact: Dr Sarah Withers: s.b.withers@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/our-expertise/research-and-knowledge-exchange-centres/energy-house:
The built environment accounts for 40% of the UK’s carbon footprint and to achieve net zero will require a step change in the design of new buildings but also, more importantly, it will require a comprehensive upgrade and retrofit programme to the existing housing stock; the UK Green Building Council estimates that 80% of the 2050 building stock has already been built.
A unique £16 million research facility, Energy House 2.0 is the largest of its type.
Inside, there are two environmental chambers each able to accommodate two detached houses and under controlled conditions, recreate a wide variety of weather conditions.
The chamber can recreate environmental conditions of 95% of the earth’s inhabited land, with temperatures from -20c to 40c, including rain, wind, snow, and solar radiation.
It was built in part thanks to funding from Innovate UK Innovation Accelerator.
Energy House 1 is a unique research and testing laboratory and comprises an early 20th century two-bedroom terraced house within an environmental chamber allowing an accurate and rapid assessment of energy efficient retro fit technologies.
It is a traditional construction; solid brick walls, suspended timber floors and single glazed windows with a conventional ‘wet’ heating system fired by a gas boiler.
The environmental chamber can be used to simulate a wide variety of weather conditions with a temperature range from -12°C to +30°C, as well as wind, rain, snow and incident solar radiation.
Throughout the chamber and the house there are over 200 monitoring points with real time data collection of parameters such as temperature, humidity, heat flux, electricity and gas consumption.
The facility underpins a range of research topics including:
Working with Energy House Labs, Barratt Developments built a revolutionary house: the Salford Smart Home (formerly known as the Barratt Zed House) – the first home in the UK that takes sustainability beyond the current Future Homes Standards.
The Salford Smart Home is fitted with several sensors that will record data for Energy House Labs research.
It will be monitored to assess its performance using the research and expertise of the University’s Energy House Laboratories.
It is the first new home in the country built by a major housebuilder to go beyond the new Future Homes Standard by delivering a carbon reduction of 125%.
The house was developed as an industry showcase home to demonstrate what is achievable, particularly from a mainstream, volume housebuilder.
The new home was built with over 40 leading industry partners from across the housebuilding, sustainability and technology sectors, all helping to broaden knowledge in zero carbon living with the lessons learnt from the construction being shared across the industry.
Smart meters technology is designed to help meet carbon reduction targets, put an end to estimated bills and help people save money.
The smart meter sits at the heart of an increasingly complex smart home energy system made up of any combination of energy saving appliances, energy storage devices, electric vehicle chargers, smart speakers, sensors and wearable technology.
As the UK’s first smart meter research laboratory, our researchers help our commercial customers explore how their innovative products and services can get the best out of smart meters to help UK consumers use energy more efficiently and cost-effectively.
The Thermal Measurement Laboratory at the University of Salford has been providing a test research and development service to the insulation and construction industry for over 40 years.
The Laboratory provides accurate and verifiable measurements of insulation performance of component building materials which is essential for the realistic evaluation of carbon savings in the enormous areas of exposed elements in the built environment.
Harris Parts window blinds
Step Places modular homes scheme
Homely Energy heath pumps
Explore our Energy House website to find out more about our recent projects and how we can support you.
For more information, please get in touch: Email: energyhouselabs@salford.ac.uk
Email: energyhouselabs@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/research/ref-2021:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
As a successor to the Research Assessment Exercise (RAE), it first took place in 2014, with submission to the most recent REF exercise being completed by HEIs in 2021.
Our REF 2021 results demonstrate the excellence of the research carried out at Salford, with 78% of our research rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
Furthermore, five of our impact submissions were regarded as 100% outstanding or having very considerable impact, in particular:
The quality of our research outputs has also been recognised in REF2021.
Highlights include:
The University endeavours to provide an inspiring, collaborative and innovative environment for research.
The quality of our research environment has been rated highly in REF2021, with five submissions in particular receiving notable scores:
Our REF2021 Code of Practice was accepted for implementation in August 2019 by Research England.
This sets out, in full, all necessary processes and timelines occurring between summer 2019 and the submission deadline of November 2020.
The Code details:
We are deeply committed to embedding equality and diversity in everything we do.
Our approach to REF is therefore aligned fully with our institutional strategy and policy for inclusion and diversity, the purpose of which is: ‘to create an inspirational, inclusive learning and working environment, celebrating the diversity of our University community in our everyday conversations’.
The development of our Code of Practice has been a joint effort by our REF Team, Inclusion & Diversity Team, HR and our academic community and we are committed to addressing inequalities in our research environment particularly within research leadership roles.
We value an approach to research assessment founded on integrity and transparency and have designed our REF processes accordingly.
Getting it right means we recognise, celebrate and foster research excellence; and we evaluate our researchers in fair, accurate and transparent ways, including through the responsible use of research metrics in decision-making.
As part of our institutional commitment to the responsible use of research metrics, in 2019 the University of Salford became a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) .
However, signing DORA is just the first step.
Our academic-led Responsible Research Assessment task group has produced a set of complementary institutional principles and guidance , and the University is putting in place a roadmap to drive the changes needed to make sure we live by these principles.
We understand the importance of individuals’ privacy rights and we are committed to complying with the Data Protection Act 2018 and the GDPR.
Our privacy notices let you know how and why we collect, use and share your personal information for REF2021, and your rights in relation to that data.
Our REF preparations are led by the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation, Professor Karl Dayson.
The preparation of our submission is managed primarily through the REF Steering Group with formal governance of the process overseen by the Research and Enterprise Committee (a committee of Senate).
The REF Team at Salford includes a central team in the Division of Research and Knowledge Exchange, supported by leads/co-leads and deputy leads for each Unit of Assessment submission.
For any initial queries, please contact the REF Team ( ref@salford.ac.uk ) or email one of our named contacts: REF Manager – Dr Rachel Brenchley ( R.C.Brenchley@salford.ac.uk ) Business Systems & Data Officer – Rob Shaw ( R.L.Shaw2@salford.ac.uk ) Impact, Engagement & Environment Coordinator – Emma Sutton ( Research-impact@salford.ac.uk )
For any initial queries, please contact the REF Team ( ref@salford.ac.uk ) or email one of our named contacts:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/doctoral-school/training-and-development:
At Salford we are passionate about providing inclusive and accessible training opportunities for our postgraduate students, to enable you to develop professionally and personally during your studies.
Our Community Model for Postgraduate Achievement, Skills and Future Success (COMPASS) is a training programme designed to support and guide researchers through their research journey by providing an extensive range of development activities which:
The COMPASS programme is continually reviewed and enhanced to fit around student's core research activity and is tailored to specific researcher requirements.
The training is focused on postgraduate researcher development and the specific needs of researchers.
All of our training sessions are delivered from a dedicated training room, via a hybrid model to enable engagement both online and in person.
Our cohort model provides opportunities for researchers across Schools to meet other researchers, exchange ideas and take the time to focus on your professional development.
The programme guides you through some of the essential and important information related to your PGR programme and training development.
Our cohort induction sessions are complemented with a wide variety of activities across a range of relevant topics to help you engage with a training programme tailored for your own needs.
Part time and distance learners have access to online interactive asynchronous material which can be accessed at any time.
Our comprehensive resources therefore provide:
The schedule of training is reviewed and refreshed each academic year and designed to coincide with and support your researcher journey.
The cohort-based training sessions are planned to take place in three-monthly cycles to complement the points of registration/re-registration and help you to navigate the progress milestones at these critical times.
Researcher development sessions that are focused on a particular theme such as research skills, communication or thesis development are also repeated multiple times throughout the year to support engagement.
We also offer an extensive range of online support, available at any time, as well as face to face workshops and one to one support.
For more information on our PGR student training opportunities, please contact the Researcher Development team at researcher@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/school-of-science-engineering-and-environment/teaching-facilities:
Attracting the best students and research requires facilities that provide an enriching learning environment to bring ideas to life.
The University has heavily invested in our facilities to reflect the equipment used in industry, giving you the chance to develop the necessary skills for your career.
From advanced scientific equipment in our cutting-edge Bodmer laboratories to our world-class anechoic chamber nestled within our audio and acoustic laboratories, we enrich our teaching practice for undergraduate, postgraduate and research students with innovation and discovery.
Take science further in Bodmer Laboratory.
This specialist, purpose-built teaching space ensures that you benefit from the latest technologies to support your learning and remain on the cutting edge of innovation and discovery.
Featured equipment includes cell culture facilities, FACS, MALDI-TOF, LC and GC mass spectrometry, FTIR and FTNMR spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy and microscopy and scanning electron microscopy.
The Translational Medicine Laboratory is used for biomedical teaching and research.
Features include a dedicated teaching space, three cell culture facilities, a state-of-the-art metabolic suite and a genome sequencer.
The laboratory helps to strengthen our existing links with regional hospitals and facilitate development of clinical studies, and widen collaborations with universities, research centres and industry.
Engineering is in Salford's DNA.
Our aerodynamics laboratory features both low speed and supersonic wind tunnels.
Typical laboratory experiments aim to determine the aerodynamic properties of an aerofoil section and influence of wing sweep on the lift and drag characteristics of a tapered wing section.
Visualise future scenarios.
THINKlab leads research in advanced technology platforms for smart city applications, collaborative engineering, multi-agency collaboration environments, serious game applications, interactive learning and training environments and community spaces.
The Octave Laboratory is a multi-model research platform, display, and capture space.
The facility enables researchers to rapidly prototype solutions and research new techniques before deployment in more specialised settings or in industry practice.
Octave is designed to be synergistic with our main acoustics research facilities, THINKlab, and The Egg facility at MediaCityUK, with strong network links between the research clusters.
Experience one of the quietest spaces in the UK.
Due to the absence of reflection form the walls, floor and ceiling, the anechoic chamber acoustically simulates a soundscape similar being high above the ground.
The room's unique features make it an ideal location for testing the response of loudspeakers or microphones because the room doesn’t affect these measurements.
It is also great for creating virtual acoustics - generating auralisations of concert halls, city streets and other spaces.
Read about how we constructed an auralisation of sound at Stonehenge
Funded by the Salford-based Morson Group, a global leader in technical recruitment and engineering excellence, our unique additive and digital manufacturing hub is made up of The Maker Space and The Morson Engine Room.
These spaces help students to acquire real-world engineering skills and hands-on training, to gain the experience sought by employers.
The Maker Space is an open lab for students to explore digital fabrication to support project-based assignments, equipped with 3D printing machines, laser and vinyl cutters, and clean working spaces for assembling electronics, building drones and robots, and a dedicated computer suite for 3D design (CAD).
The Morson Engine Room is home to heavy duty, industrial grade machinery and equipped with a waterjet cutter, metal additive manufacturing, large format 3D printing, state of the art electron and optical microscopes and reverse engineering metrology instrumentation.
Guided by skilled engineers, students can learn how to use and operate these machines, and build design skills in relation to manufacturing, assembly and inspection.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/collaborative-rd/knowledge-transfer-partnership-and-industry-phd:
Partner with our academics to deliver a step change in business process and productivity via a KTP or Industry PhD project.
We were one of the first universities to pilot the forerunner to the Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) scheme when it launched in 1975 and have continued to be at the cutting edge of how businesses and academics can work together for the last 50 years.
Our KTP and Industry PhD projects have delivered business improvements across local firms in Greater Manchester, national industry partners, and international organisation.
We are able to tailor our expertise to any sector or size of business, with a dedicated support team who manage the project for you.
A KTP is a grant funded project that offers a three-way collaboration between the business, the University and a graduate Associate who is employed to work on developing a solution to an individual company’s specific needs.
The KTP programme is intended to bring new capabilities to a business or organisation in order to solve a problem that is unique to your company.
While essentially providing access to academic knowledge, a KTP offers much more.
In addition to gaining the specific knowledge that a company requires, we recruit a graduate Associate to work specifically on the task of bringing a new capability into the business and ensuring that it is fully embedded and works for everyone in the organisation.
Normally lasting two to three years and with funding from Innovate UK to cover a significant portion of the project’s costs (between 50-75% depending on your company’s size), this collaborative approach not only accelerates the pace of innovation but also ensures that the resulting projects are well-grounded in both theoretical and practical applicability.
We have used our expertise in KTP delivery to launch our own industry PhD scheme which allows businesses to set the direct on of one of our research degree projects.
These projects see a student recruited and supported via joint funding from both the business and the university to deliver a new piece of cutting-edge research.
If a three year PhD project is not suitable for your needs, we also run a shorter industry masters scheme.
The companies involved gain a competitive advantage by benefiting from new research insights specifically aligned to their most pressing innovation challenges, whilst also supporting the development of the next generation of researchers.
knowledge-transfer@salford.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/collaborative-rd/contract-research:
Commissioning our academics to conduct new research on your behalf means that you benefit from bespoke new insights which can help to further develop and implement an idea or innovation.
Contract research projects are a particularly useful way of engaging with our expertise and infrastructure when you do not have the necessary knowledge or facilities in-house to resolve a challenge.
The activity is fully funded by the business, which means that you are able to shape the plans to your exact needs and will own any intellectual property created through the work.
We have worked on over 750 contract research projects with SMEs, charities and large corporations over the last 10 years.
Projects can involve multiple experts and facilities from across the university, with each one tailored to your specific needs.
Some of our recent contract research in the Greater Manchester region and beyond.
A pioneering cleantech company is set to unveil its prototype flatpack home built using sustainable and advanced materials after...
The route taken to access the university’s knowledge, facilities and services depends on the scale of the project and what it entails.
A member of our team will set up a consultation call and will recommend the most economical and appropriate path.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/collaborative-rd/consultancy:
Our in-house subject matter experts can work with companies to improve a business’ knowledge, insights and understanding of a specific topic.
As a university, we are able to draw upon the specialised expertise of over 1,000 subject experts actively researching and working in their area.
For projects which require a multi-disciplinary approach, we are able to involve academics from different fields to provide advice tailored exactly to the needs of the business brief.
A high level of analysis, measurement or testing carried out by our experts to provide set outputs to a company where specific insights are required.
This could be as simple as a feasibility study, or for more complex projects which require the use of the university’s facilities and networks, to conduct extended testing or sampling.
To enquire about engaging with our experts on a consultancy, you can contact us via the following email address and a member of our team will reach out to start the conversation: innovation@salford.ac.uk
To enquire about engaging with our experts on a consultancy, you can contact us via the following email address and a member of our team will reach out to start the conversation:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/the-university-of-salfords-new-software-revolutionises-railway-building:
The University of Salford’s THINKlab has designed and developed UE4-powered 4D simulation tool which can help dramatically improve Network Rail’s track renewal programs.
The UK’s railways carry about four million people a day, and with those numbers set to increase, it’s imperative that improvements and modernizations are carried out to deliver more frequent, reliable, and safe services, while causing minimal disruption to passengers.
For Network Rail, a publicly owned infrastructure manager which maintains large swathes of Britain’s train tracks, this means track renewal programs must be carefully planned and designed to avoid major service disruption, and The THINKLab’s new simulation tool can evaluate rail works in a virtual simulation environment.
With this innovative software, Network Rail can dramatically improve the efficiency, cost, and the time it takes to deliver a project.
“In the past it would take a full week to plan a weekend’s work,” says Steve Naybour, Head of Transformation at the Network Rail South Alliance.
“This effort can now be reduced to a few hours using the new tool.”
Watch the simulation .
The THINKLab’s simulation tool enables Network Rail to build a 3D model of any site from a range of data sources.
Virtual tracks are positioned onto 3D digital terrain from CAD or laser-scanned track data.
Building Information Modelling (BIM) models of overhead line equipment, ballast, sleepers, rails, and signaling apparatus can be imported for a more accurate representation of the physical site.
And a library of plant equipment assets provides excavators and diggers to include in the simulation.
Users can define the resources needed to complete the project and build a timeline of activities, with task interdependencies mapped.
Costing functionality in the software provides an accurate view of the financial impact of choices.
As planning decisions are made and data is input, the software automatically simulates the work, offering views from a number of camera angles, at different levels of magnification, and at different speeds.
Any changes in the planning inputs are immediately represented in the simulation.
This results in much shorter feedback loops compared to the conventional approach to computer modeling, because engineers, designers and planners don’t have to rely on computer-modeling specialists to see the implications of changes to their plans.
The tool could prove to be invaluable for assigning the right amount of resources to Network Rail’s track renewal programs.
“Whereas we might have used five pieces of equipment for a job, we can often use two or three,” says Stephen Kearney, Head of Development at S&C Alliance South East.
“With this package, we can see and prove what we will need in advance.”
Leveraging Blueprints to improve workflow efficiency
Unreal Engine is the go-to solution for nearly all of THINKlab’s visualization work.
“We started migrating most of our projects to UE4 shortly after it became public, as it provided vastly superior image quality out-of-the-box and allowed much easier and faster iteration of our scenes,” says Michal Cieciura, Lead Developer at THINKlab.
“The licensing model was fantastic, and we were getting a top-tier engine for next to nothing.”
With access to the engine’s source code, the team’s developers could familiarize themselves with the framework much faster, which allowed them to optimize the mechanics early on and to a much greater degree.
They also made good use of the Blueprint visual scripting system, the scripting language that puts tools that are ordinarily reserved for programmers into the hands of designers and other non-programmers.
“The Blueprint system not only made prototyping and experimental designs a breeze for our programmers, but it also allowed the non-programming members to become more self-sufficient, as they were able to build parts of the needed functionality themselves,” says Cieciura.
“This, in turn, made our workflow more efficient overall.”
Having worked with node-based interfaces in their respective modeling packages, team members on the project found the engine’s Material Editor easy to get to grips with.
“What’s more, the PBR materials—in combination with Unreal Engine’s lighting solutions—have not only improved visual realism in real time, but also removed the requirement for offline rendering,” says Cieciura.
For Network Rail, the innovation has already proved worth its weight in gold.
“This tool reduces the risk of incurring additional cost and time in the delivery.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/ikoustic-partners-with-university-of-salford-to-develop-acoustic-insulation-and-soundproofing-solutions:
iKoustic and the University of Salford have successfully developed innovative acoustic insulation and soundproofing products with improved acoustic, thermal and environmental performance as part of a two-year knowledge transfer partnership (KTP).
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are the UK Government's flagship scheme for collaborative research and development; a three-way collaboration between a business, an academic partner and a highly qualified researcher.
Through the University of Salford KTP, a team from the school of Science, Engineering and Environment worked with iKoustic to successfully develop quieter, slimmer, multi-functional building partitions, using recycled environmentally friendly materials.
The KTP has now been awarded ‘very good’ status by Innovate UK, the UK’s national innovation agency.
Dr Alejandro Garcia-Miranda Ferrari, Knowledge Transfer Manager at the University of Salford, said: “At the University of Salford, we're passionate about connecting businesses with academic expertise to foster innovation and drive growth.
“It’s excellent to see the Knowledge Transfer Partnership with iKoustic has successfully made significant contributions to the field of acoustic insulation and sound proofing, as well as enhancing iKoustic’s reputation as an innovator in the industrial construction material market.”
With support from the University of Salford’s Acoustics Research Centre, the partnership team successfully introduced a more analytical approach to product development that was based on a combination of Predictive Modelling and a novel testing methodology that makes acoustic product and system testing far more economic and rapid.
Improving research and development processes and designing better-performing, more sustainable products and systems has expanded the appeal and reach of iKoustic, with development costs in both money and time being reduced in the long term.
Rick Parsons, Company Director at iKoustic Ltd, said: “The KTP project with the University of Salford has been an amazing collaborative experience and a great success for iKoustic on so many levels.
It has provided iKoustic with the opportunity to introduce a more effective and efficient research and development process, which has led to the development of new products with improved acoustic, thermal and environmental performance.”
The partnership reached a significant milestone when the calibration of all the new processes led to the development of an innovative wall and floor partition lining product, potentially as a long-term replacement for plasterboard.
The AcousticWafer® has now been released as a new range for iKoustic.
KTPs create a dynamic tripartite relationship, known as the ‘knowledge triangle’, between a company, a research institution, and a KTP associate.
Innovate UK provides substantial funding for KTPs with the remaining covered by the industrial partner.
The KTP provides a full-time researcher – the KTP associate – as well as supervision from an expert academic with specialised knowledge, and access to the University’s cutting-edge research capabilities and state-of-the-art technologies.
KTP associate, Gabriel Whittle, was part of the University’s academic team delivering the project in partnership with iKoustic.
Find out how you can transform your business with a KTP
Find out more about iKoustic

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/dogs-trust-and-university-of-salford-offer-advice-for-dog-owners-in-the-run-up-to-bonfire-night:
Ahead of upcoming firework festivities, Dogs Trust, the UK’s largest dog welfare charity has issued advice to owners on how to take care of their canine friends, with one in three owners from a recent survey looking to seek advice around firework related behaviour.
A new study by experts at the University of Salford has also affirmed that dogs are sensitive to a greater range of firework noise sound than first thought, confirming it’s best to keep dogs indoors during fireworks to limit distress for our four-legged friends and keep them safe.
Dogs Trust recommends that dog owners prepare early and urges owners to visit its website for full guidance on how to help dogs stay safe and settled during fireworks.
Jenna Kiddie, Head of Behaviour at Dogs Trust said:
“Fear of fireworks is worryingly common in dogs of all ages, and it can have a significant impact on their wellbeing and affect dogs at any time in their lives.
“Dogs respond to fireworks in a range of different ways, so it’s crucial to have a clear plan, ahead of time, to help your own dog cope.
Some dogs will want to find a cosy hiding place, others will want reassurance.
If your dog does seem worried, it’s worth distracting them with a game or treats to keep their attention away from the noises outside.
Owners can visit the Dogs Trust website for top tips on what to do when fireworks have started.”
Top tips on days when owners expect fireworks:
Industry Collaboration Fellow Zuzanna Podwinska from the University of Salford said:
“ Our research suggests that dogs may be more sensitive to low frequency booms and vibration than previously thought.
Unfortunately, it is difficult to reduce these kinds of sounds coming into the home.
We plan to look at how effective ‘doggy dens’ might be in the future to evaluate how they might protect against the kinds of sounds that are associated with distress responses.
However, the most effective way to reduce exposure is to be far enough away from firework displays for the overall sound levels to be reduced or for displays to avoid the kinds of fireworks that produce low frequency booms.
As such, dog owners should follow the advice to protect their pets but they should be aware that their pets may still show signs of distress over the fireworks season .”
Dogs Trust tips for when the fireworks events have started:
The charity also recommends noting down how your dog reacted during the fireworks and what worked well to help them cope.
It also advises returning to a normal routine to help dogs settle down.
If they were worried during fireworks, it is a good idea to seek professional help before the next firework season starts.
Dogs Trust recommends dog owners to seek veterinary advice for any concerns.
They can check if there are any contributing medical problems, and if necessary, refer you to a clinical behaviourist.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/case-studies/understanding-the-broadcast-listening-experience-with-the-bbc:
Our world leading Acoustics Research Centre has helped the BBC understand more about how people perceive sound on the TV and radio shows they consume at home.
Information about Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP)
Loudspeaker-based spatial audio systems are often designed to create an auditory event or scene to a listener who is in a central listening position.
However, in real-world domestic listening environments, listeners can be distributed across the listening area.
The BBC’s Research and Development Centre wanted to understand how sound produced by spatial audio rendering systems is perceived by people across different listening positions.
To do so they collaborated with our world-leading Acoustic Research Centre, bringing PhD student Darius Satongar into the project through an EPSRC sponsored industrial CASE studentship.
Darius’ role was to investigate, implement and validate state-of-the-art testing methods to find out the differing perceptions of sound.
The research focused on domestic listening environments and covered psychoacoustic modelling, objective measurements and subjective testing using Auditory Virtual Entertainment (AVE).
The AVE used a binaural simulation system that we developed in collaboration with the BBC.
Binaural technologies allow the creation of virtual sound environments through only headphone reproduction and a motion tracking system.
They work by simulating the filtering effect performed by the human head, torso and outer ear.
The effect can be so realistic that many listeners struggle to differentiate between a real loudspeaker and a virtual loudspeaker.
Low latency motion tracking is achieved using a state-of-the-art optical motion tracking system that also gives data for biomechanical analysis of listener characteristics.
This allowed us to test many perceptual features of the spatial audio system such as their spatial attributes or perceived colouration and how these change across the listening area.
The team published six conference papers during the course of the research, contributing significantly to the field of applied acoustics.
As part of the project Darius was given the opportunity to undertake a fully paid industrial internship with the Audio Hardware Team at Apple Inc.
in Cupertino, California.
Darius was so successful that he is now a full time Apple employee.
“ This unique experience gave me the ability to work with two leaders in acoustics and audio research together with other experts in my field.
The industrial influence stimulates a more practical outlook of my research, which is important to me and is also attractive to future employers.
I would highly recommend an ICASE studentship to anybody considering doing a PhD ”.
Darius Satongar, PhD Student

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/case-studies/glaxo-smith-kline-telling-the-story-of-the-salford-lung-study:
Glaxo Smith Kline (GSK) is a global healthcare company that researches, develops and manufactures innovative pharmaceutical medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products.
The Salford Lung Study was an innovative ‘real-world’ research project studying the safety and effectiveness of a GSK respiratory medicine alongside currently available treatments.
The study was a unique collaboration between GSK, North West e-Health, The University of Manchester, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, NHS Salford, local GPs and local community pharmacists.
It was the first large, prospective, ‘real-world’ study to be conducted within one geographical setting and was initiated before the medicine was licensed.
We worked with GSK and Mirrorworld Technologies to develop a unique Salford Lung Study visualisation platform that was used to demonstrate the study to audiences worldwide.
The platform featured a virtual model of the City of Salford over which social, health and study data could be displayed and interacted with.
The innovative platform was used in a variety of ways to introduce Salford as a city to international audiences, tell the unique ‘story’ of the study and help illustrate the journey of a patient involved in the study.
Going forward the base platform provides the functionality to create and display a range of social and health perspectives of the city and we are working closely with the Salford Lung Study team to integrate additional data and create a range of interactive study scenarios.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/case-studies/siemens-exploring-an-offshore-substation-in-real-time:
Siemens is a market leader in offshore wind power with a proven 20-year track record.
Offshore substations are the systems that collect and export the power generated by wind turbines and are an essential component of offshore wind farms.
When Siemens were designing and launching a new offshore electrical substation product, they faced two key challenges.
How did their design and safety teams make sure that it was fit for purpose?
And how did their prospective customers experience the product before it was built?
With this in mind, the company approached us to produce an interactive virtual model of their new offshore electrical substation product.
We worked closely with the Siemens team to export 3D models of the substation from their design systems and used these to produce an interactive visualisation that allowed users to explore the substation in real time.
Making use of Oculus Rift HMD technology, the model enabled users to experience the substation with an accurate sense of scale and place not possible on standard screens.
It saved time and money by allowing Siemens design and safety teams to test their iterations, ensuring that the final product was right, first time.
It also allowed Siemens sales teams to quickly communicate how the product operated to potential customers.
Going forward Siemens are using the model in future development of onshore and offshore electrical substations and to train up their operations and maintenance staff on the installations.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/access-our-ip:
The University’s Technology Transfer Office works with academics, commercial and industrial partners to develop these innovations into market-ready offers.
Each innovation is unique, so we draw on internal and external commercial experience and business knowledge in order to work with partners to structure the right licensing deal.
In some cases, we take our innovations to the market through the creation of a spin off company.
Whatever route is most appropriate, our Technology Transfer specialists ensure that any intellectual property created through our research activities is used for the benefit of the university, society, industry and the wider economy.
We are also able to help our industrial partners to find solutions to specific business problems through our close relationships with the university’s research base.
Salsa Sound was born when university researchers Rob Oldfield and Ben Shirley patented their suite of AI tools...
Work on the Salvalco Eco-Valve, developed by the Spray Research Group (SRG) at Salford, began in 2007 and it...
Carbon Air was established at the end of 2011 having secured investment to develop patented research...
The University of Salford welcomed the Independent Review of University Spin-out Companies published in November 2023.
The timely release of the Government’s spin out review, subsequent recommendations and the University Spin-out Investment Terms (USIT) Guide have been invaluable in informing the University’s improved processes and visibility, and underpinning the current review of intellectual property policies, and changes recommended by the Technology Transfer Office (TTO).
While this is voluntary, the Government expects some universities to adopt these policies by the end of 2024, with Research England having responsibility for recording adoptees.
Salford’s position is that we have substantively adopted the review’s best practices.
The University of Salford’s approach to commercialising research reinforces the University’s innovation strategy and the three key goals; transforming lives, stimulating discovery and realising potential.
The University currently has spin-out companies created on terms that follow the best practice set out in the USIT Guide and the USIT for Software Guide.
These companies have been created based on research from three schools and range from advanced materials, software, pharmaceuticals and social enterprise.
Equity stakes do not exceed 25% and range from 1% to 21% across the portfolio.
Our IP and Spin Out policy is currently undergoing review, endorsement and approval and our equity position will be formalised within this academic year.
The approach taken by the University has already seen benefits.
Our membership of the NxNW Partners ICURe Programme consortium has facilitated an increased appetite for commercialisation activity across all four schools, delivering a breadth of projects that the University has previously not had, evidenced by our participation in both the Innovate UK ICURe Programme and ARC Accelerator accelerators.
Whilst the university already exceeds the cluster average rating in IP and Commercialisation ( KEF4 ), the adoption of Government recommendations will ensure continued best practice.
The current review, TTO support and founder friendly approach to supporting spin outs and commercialisation of research means that this is an area where The University of Salford will continue to grow.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/news/vector-unveils-prototype-sustainable-home-at-energy-house-20:
A pioneering cleantech company is set to unveil its prototype flatpack home built using sustainable and advanced materials after undergoing testing at a ground-breaking research facility in Greater Manchester.
Vector Homes is working with Energy House 2.0, part of the University of Salford, to develop its new rapid-build housing system.
The prototype is a low-carbon, one-bedroom bungalow measuring 40sq metres which has been constructed using recycled materials, including steel and plastics, as well as advanced materials such as graphene.
Vector is designing affordable, energy efficient homes with features including low-embodied carbon materials, infra-red heating, solar cells, breathable mould-resistant plaster and render, as well as embedded technology to provide smart environmental controls that efficiently measure and control the temperature, humidity and air quality in each room.
Its homes are designed for rapid production and assembly.
Vector is looking to mass manufacture homes in a range of shapes and sizes which are sold as flatpacks to be built by a small team of people.
By incorporating graphene into the structures, the panels used in the construction of a Vector home have improved tensile strength, a greatly-reduced flame spread and increased UV resistance.
Vector has worked with the University of Manchester’s Graphene Engineering Innovation Centre to develop ways of incorporating the material into its housing systems.
Vector is using the unique features of Energy House 2.0 to test the prototype’s thermal properties and its efficiency in different climates.
Energy House 2.0 can recreate temperatures from -20C to 40C, representing 95 per cent the inhabited earth, as well as recreating snow, wind, rain and solar energy to put the Vector home through its paces.
Launched earlier this year, the £16m Energy House 2.0, at the heart of the University of Salford’s Peel Park Campus, is globally unique and is helping to drive innovation in the housing sector already, through work with housebuilders Barratt and Bellway, and manufacturer Saint-Gobain.
Vector, which is led by chief executive Nathan Feddy and chief technical officer Dr Liam Britnell, has so far received backing from SFC Capital, GC Angels, the Greater Manchester Investment Fund which is the investment arm of the Greater Manchester Combined Authority, Innovate UK, the European Regional Development Fund and social housing investment firm HSPG.
Liam said: “Our mission is to cut carbon and costs in construction and our homes are designed to have 80 per cent fewer carbon emissions in the building process compared to a standard brick house.
“They are also designed to be dismantled rather than demolished at the end of life, with the components finding a second or even third life elsewhere.
From the microstructure to the superstructure of a Vector home, everything links back to efficiency and sustainability.
Our homes will be super standardised to ensure the rapid production of components and assembly.
“The opportunity to work with Energy House 2.0 has been a dream come true.
It’s a one-of-a-kind facility which enables testing for new types of construction methods.
“The Energy House 2.0 team have been incredible to work with, and in a few months’ time our housing system will have more empirical data than any other in the world.
This will enable us to continue our iteration cycles to take Vector to the next level.”
The Vector Homes prototype will be officially unveiled at an open day and housewarming event on Thursday, September 21, which is being hosted in conjunction with specialist finance firm Together, for housing associations, local authorities, private developers, housebuilders and investors.
As well as showcasing the Vector Homes prototype, other digital technologies such as AI-assisted site planning, smart home and digital tools and other new materials will be exhibited.
Also exhibiting will be F&T Terrix, Ambion Heating and HAHN Plastics, which have provided mould-resistant plaster and render, infra-red heating and outdoor furniture made from recycled plastic respectively for the prototype.
Prof Will Swan, director of Energy House Labs, said: “This type of project is exactly what our unique Energy House 2.0 facility was built for.
Vector Homes is an ambitious, innovative north west company and if we can help them to develop a new product which can provide cheap, safe and, most importantly, warm housing, then there will be huge benefits.”
Elliot Vure, director of corporate sales at Together, said: “We’ve been incredibly impressed with Vector’s vision to provide quality, sustainable and affordable housing, made from innovative materials.
“The prototype building that Vector has produced is a fantastic example of researchers and the private sector working in partnership, and we believe that Vector’s low-carbon, rapid-build homes can go some way to providing a solution to some of the UK’s future housing challenges.”

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/our-facilities-and-services/sme-and-professional-services:
In addition to our sector-specific facilities and services, the university can also provide more general support for businesses.
From our vast range of conferencing facilities to our continuous professional development, companies can work with our specialists on a wide range of projects and initiatives.
If you’re interested in accessing any of these facilities, please contact the Business Innovation Services Team and we will be able to link you into the right contact(s).
Explore our other sectors to learn more about the vast array of facilities available for you to use, including:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/our-facilities-and-services/digital-and-creative:
The University of Salford boasts some of the best digital and creative facilities in the North-West, including our dedicated media-focused campus right at the heart of MediaCityUK at Salford Quays.
From state-of-the-art TV, radio and music production studios used regularly by some of the biggest names in the industry, to our New Adelphi design and performing arts hub, the University has formed strong links with the creative industry and national cultural organisations.
The university is focused on driving innovation by working with businesses to embed digital and creative ideas and skills are embedded across all industry sectors.
As the creative industries continue to develop hand-in-hand with new technologies, we can work with you to ensure that your company stays at the forefront of the rapidly changing business environment.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/our-facilities-and-services/health-innovation:
The School of Health and Society boasts a vast array of facilities which can be used by businesses to train their staff, develop new innovative ideas to inception and gain access to the latest research through our academics.
As technology continues to disrupt the sector, a number of our research centres in the areas of AI, automation, digital health and robotics have worked closely with organisations operating in the health sector to drive innovation.
Below are some of the services and facilities on offer for organisations.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/our-facilities-and-services/built-environment-and-green-growth:
As the world strives to reach net zero, future-proofing our homes and businesses to mitigate the effects of climate change is a key priority for the University.
We are committed to working closely with industry -in both the public and private sectors- on their journey to become more sustainable, ensuring that companies continue to innovate throughout the process.
The University of Salford boasts world-class facilities which can be used by industry and businesses in this area, including our UKAS-accredited Acoustics Lab and our Energy House Labs.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/grow-your-business/our-facilities-and-services/advanced-materials-and-manufacturing:
The University of Salford has a long-standing relationship with the manufacturing sector, working with companies which vary from the production of high-tech medical devices through to the development of autonomous vehicles.
We are well-positioned to help companies at every stage of the research and development processes to ensure that companies are innovating, automating their processes, driving forward the national sustainability agenda and becoming more productive.
The university’s multi-disciplinary approach to business support means that we can work with your company to ensure that the right minds are brought in to solve your business challenges.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/develop-your-people/continuous-professional-development:
The university has an array of professional and accredited training courses to support the development needs of your business.
We take a collaborative, co-creative approach to solving problems, improving productivity, and creating sustainable businesses for the future.
From Pipeline Media - our training hub offering industry-led short courses to meet the demands of the creative technology industries - to Help to Grow, our 12 week-programme designed to help you boost your business performance, we can help take your business to the next level.
If you are looking for something more bespoke, let us work with you to tailor a specialist programme to meet your business requirements.
You’ll benefit from access to world leading research and high-quality teaching from academic experts and industry practitioners.
Work with us to provide Continuing Professional Development programmes designed to help you develop the right skills within your employees to help them thrive and to accelerate your business success.
Salford Professional Development (SPD) delivers in-house, virtual and bespoke accredited and non-accredited training to over 9,000 clients per year across both the public and private sectors.
SPD has a unique offering that combines industry with academia, allowing us to utilise a bank of knowledge within our academics for theoretical study, and combining this with industry case studies from our partners.
Our School of Health and Society offers a variety of professional development opportunities to support the training needs of healthcare professionals and their businesses, helping you and your team to learn new skills, gain valuable qualifications and keep abreast of changing demands within the industry.
A focus on real-world application ensures that your workforce has the knowledge and expertise to adapt and develop.
Pipeline Media delivers industry-led short courses and masterclasses to meet the demands of the burgeoning TV, film and content creation markets.
Our specialist team of trainers and academics develop course content that is bespoke and relevant to the needs of this industry.
Take your business to the next level with Help to Grow, the government backed programme designed to help you learn new skills, reach more customers and boost your profits.
Help to Grow will support senior managers of small and medium sized businesses to boost their business’s performance, resilience, and long-term growth.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/business/develop-your-people/qcpd:
Quality CPD Accreditation (QCPD) - Our QCPD verifies the professional quality of your CPD activity and its true learning value.
This university stamp of approval carries the weight of our rigorous processes and excellent reputation.
Many partners value academic accreditation from the University and have developed collaborative arrangements with us to improve the quality and reach of their CPD or to create new educational pathways and awards from the University.
However, not everyone is looking for academic awards these days.
Some are requesting a non-academic form of quality assurance or verification from the University for their CPD activities.
This has led to the development of the University’s QCPD.
To gain this accreditation you will need to meet a set of requirements focused on your planning, design, delivery, and evaluation of your CPD.
We were keen to gain accreditation, to evidence the quality and credibility of the course.
The accreditation team were so easy to work with.
They were able to guide me through the process at every stage and I found the process to be a great learning experience that also led to some improvements in our CPD.
Helen Valls-Russell, Director, ERGOCOM
We applied for QCPD mark to help us provide the best quality training we can, the University of Salford team were really supportive throughout the process and shared some excellent resources and valuable insights to help us along the way.
Having the QCPD mark provides reassurance to the our organisation that the training meets a high standard and adds value, as well as providing a useful addition for our clinical colleagues to include in revalidation portfolios.
Eleanor Peet, Quality Improvement Lead, Northern Care Alliance NHS Trust.
Are you interested?
If so, please download and complete this form .
Once completed, send it on email to qcpd@salford.ac.uk and we'll get back to you to discuss.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/careers/support/careers-fairs/terms-and-conditions-and-guidance-notes-for-attending-careers-events-at-the-university-of-salford:
Completion and submission of the online booking form implies acceptance of these Terms and Conditions and commits your organisation to attend the event stipulated on the booking form.
Fees and cancellation charges
The cost to attend a Careers Fair is as follows:
The preferred method of payment is via the University of Salford’s online shop.
Cancellation of your stand within two weeks of the Fair date, or failure to turn up on the day, will invoke a cancellation charge at the same rate as the fee.
If your circumstances do change and you need to cancel your booking, then please inform us immediately.
Nature of your business
We reserve the right to refuse space at our sole discretion to any organisation that we deem unsuitable for the Fair.
By submitting your booking form, you agree to divulge the nature of your business and the purposes which you seek to promote at the Fair.
Providing an incomplete booking form will delay the booking process and a stand cannot be guaranteed until all requested information has been received by the Organisers.
Inaccurate information on a booking form could result in your offer of a stand being withdrawn.
Employer and vacancies policy
All opportunities must adhere to our policy on advertising where information about the type of employers, vacancies and employing international students can be found.
Stand information
Each booking is allocated the following:
Parking / Road closures / Travel disruptions
Payment for parking must be done on arrival by following the instructions within the car park.
Please note: we cannot reserve or guarantee you a parking space.
Parking at the University is very limited, and where possible you are encouraged to car share or use public transport to get to the venue.
Read our guidance on travelling to the University .
Currently some of the University car parks at the Allerton campus are closed.
Also, there are some road closures in and around campus which may prolong your journey time.
Further current information can be found via the link above.
Student numbers
Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee a minimum number of student attendees at the events and no refunds will be given for low student numbers.
Insurance
Whilst every precaution is taken to protect your property during the event, the University of Salford is not responsible for any loss or damage.
Your organisation must have appropriate insurance cover including insuring against any legal liability incurred in respect of injury or damage to property belonging to third parties.
Equipment
All electrical equipment for use on our premises must be portable appliance tested, and you must be in possession of a valid “PAT” test certificate.
Wherever possible, 110volt CTE equipment must be used.
At the end of the event, the Exhibitor will remove any property used by them in connection with their participation in the event, from the venue.
The Exhibitor will be liable for all storage and handling charges resulting from failure to remove all equipment from the venue.
Fire risks
No equipment, material or substance can be brought on to the premises which could present a significant risk of fire e.g.
flammable liquids, candles, etc.
Trip hazards
No trailing wires/cables or similar, which could constitute a trip hazard, will be permitted.
Live animals
No live animals (except for guide dogs or other support animals) will be permitted on the premises.
Access equipment
No access equipment for work at height, e.g.
scaffold towers, MEWPs, etc.
will be permitted on the premises without prior consultation with and the express permission of the University of Salford’s Safety Officer.
Data protection
The Information supplied via the booking form will be stored and used to administer the Fair, to advertise your jobs to our students via the University of Salford vacancy service and to notify you of other events and services offered by the University of Salford.
If you do not wish to receive further information, please let us know.
Joining instructions
Two weeks before the event, you will receive further details about the event, maps, directions and instructions for car parking.
Cancellation of the event
The Organiser shall have the right to cancel the event with or without cause.
Contact details
In the first instance all enquiries should be directed to: business@salford.ac.uk .
Careers Clifford Whitworth Library
University of Salford Salford Greater Manchester M5 4WT
+44 (0)161 295 5000
Updated: February 2025

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/unitemps:
Unitemps is the ultimate temporary employment solution, placing candidates from the university and community in temporary and permanent roles within the university and surrounding businesses.
Candidates will benefit from:
We offer a wide range of benefits to employers:
Unitemps takes the hassle out of recruitment, making it easy for employers to fill any position, from flexible temporary work to permanent contracts.
Our talent pool of students and graduates means we can easily meet the skills requirements of any sector.
We provide continuing support and guidance to all our candidates whether they are searching for their first full-time job or just looking to earn additional income.
Our team of consultants, based at University House, are always on hand to offer interview preparation, help with visa requirements and much more.
Why Unitemps?
Unlike other recruiters, Unitemps consultants do not work on commission.
That means our only goal is finding the...
Whether you’re looking to kick-start your career or just earn some additional...
We're happy to receive feedback from clients and candidates.
Campus Living Villages UK
People of the Streets CIC

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/careers/cvs-applications-and-interviews/application-referees:
Find out how to select your references for your job applications.
University of Salford School offices provide support to students/graduates who study/studied courses within their School.
If you're a University of Salford student or graduate applying for employment/further study, and your prospective employer/education provider requires a Character Reference or an Academic Reference or a referee from the University of Salford, you or your prospective employer/education provider can contact the relevant School office to make a request.
If you are unsure which University of Salford School your course is/was within, you can refer to a list of current courses in each School:
You should only provide the details of referees that have given their permission to be included.
If an employer or educational institution wants to verify your University of Salford qualification, you should refer them to the Higher Education Degree Datacheck (HEDD) service.
Any questions they may have about this service should be directed to Prospects HEDD .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/contact-us:
You can call us on +44 (0)161 295 5374 or just leave us your number and we will call you back.
You can also email us at conference-com@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/mediacity:
The University of Salford at MediaCity is right at the heart of the UK’s media and digital industries.
With broadcast-standard video and audio facilities and the latest digital technology as standard, it’s suitable for even the most ambitious and imaginative events.
Our conference, meeting and creative studio spaces all use the latest AV and communication technology.
We can accommodate everything from awards ceremonies and events to product launches, exhibitions and networking activities, small and large.
Our creative studio spaces include two industry standard HD TV studios, including green screen, and three radio studios for production and broadcast.
There are three floors of fully-serviced meeting and conference rooms of various sizes, with break-out spaces, AV and communication services.
Free wireless access is available on a pre-arranged basis.
Enquire now
Latest digital technology as standard
TV and radio studios for hire
Our neighbours are the BBC and ITV
Egg Gallery Foyer floor plan ;
theatre style seating plan and suite floor plan;
DPL floor plan ;
tiered seating plan and theatre style seating plan;
Content specification for Egg and DPL outputs
3.02 floor plan;
3.06 floor plan
How to find us?

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/new-adelphi-chapman-building:
The New Adelphi opened its doors in September 2016.
The spacious, feature-packed building is a contemporary new gateway to our vibrant campus.
Together with its neighbour, the recently refurbished Chapman Building, it offers excellent opportunities for conferences and events.
The New Adelphi is the home of our creative and performing arts students.
Each of its five floors contains top-spec, contemporary facilities and equipment.
It features working TV, radio and music studios; 10 performance areas, including a 350-seat theatre; exhibition spaces; large, modern lecture theatres, and a rooftop café and bar.
Together with Chapman’s six modern lecture theatres, café, social areas and private seminar rooms, these buildings provide the perfect location for large conferences and events.
Outside, there are green spaces and seating areas for break-time relaxation and networking.
Our en-suite accommodation are available to book during the summer months when the students are off campus.
New Adelphi has a BREEAM ‘Excellent’ rating in line with the University’s sustainability agenda.
For information about the accessibility of the two buildings please visit our partner disabledGO .
Brand new contemporary facility
350-seat theatre
Excellent Green credentials
A large theatre that can be configured with different seating layouts.
Ideal for performances and lectures.
The theatre also makes large conferences at Salford possible.
The New Adelphi Theatre is an excellent plenary space with the 6 lecture theatres next door in the Chapman Building making ideal break out spaces.
The Atrium area will house a café whist leaving ample space for exhibition stands and networking.
The large open Atrium space will house a café but also have plenty space to host an exhibition.
The Atrium would also make an excellent choice for a drinks’ reception.
The Chapman Building has been thoroughly refurbished and modernised- inside and out.
The 6 new modern lectures theatres seat between 100 and 278 delegates.
They are excellent spaces for stand- alone events and also work perfectly as break out spaces for larger conferences using the large theatre in New Adelphi as a plenary space.
The lecture theatres are all equipped with the very latest technology and large screen displays.
The Chapman complex houses 3 classrooms, 2 of which can be joined to form one large room seating 40 delegates.
We have a variety of sized PC suites for hire to be used for training courses.
Our creative studio spaces include two industry standard HD TV studios including a green screen.
These could be a great addition to your event – film interviews with your guests or even broadcast your event live as it happens.
As part of our on- going vision to produce highly employable graduates, by making use of these studios you will have access to our undergraduate and postgraduate students (fully supervised by University of Salford staff and technicians) who will be there to support your project.
This could be from simple work shadowing to filming, direction and producing.
There are two fully functioning state of art TV studios, possibly the highest specification education studios in Europe.
These are equivalent to those used by industry including BBC, ITV and Sky.
Features include:
Our creative studio spaces three radio studios capable of facilitating any productions and broadcasts.
The three state-of-the-art radio studios can actually create broadcast material with equipment as used by the BBC.
They are capable of being linked to every other audio room in the building, which could facilitate outside sources such as live bands performing within the TV studios.
How to find us

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/peel-building:
The university’s origins lie in this grand, elegant building.
Built in 1896 and designed by Henry Lord, the beautiful façade is constructed of red Accrington bricks and sculpted terracotta.
Inside, the magnificent Peel Hall seats up to 300 people in spectacular surroundings.
The hall can be used for musical performances and recordings as well as more traditional conferences.
The buildings is also home to a large number of lecture theatres, classrooms and meeting rooms which are ideal breakout spaces for larger events.
For information about the accessibility of this building please visit our partner disabledGO .
This elegant Victorian Concert Hall is housed in the Peel Building which stands proudly at the front of the Peel Park Campus.
It has capacity for 300 in tiered seating format.
A wonderful venue for concerts, performances and recordings it also makes an impressive space to hold a conference, presentation or Awards’ event.
The Hall is equipped with audio visual equipment and has full wireless internet access for all delegates.
There is a large car park in close proximity to the venue and the building is sited at the front of the campus which is convenient for bus and train travel.
With lecture theatres and classrooms of varying sizes (from 2 to 103) we can accommodate your event in traditional, comfortable surroundings with access to full audio-visual equipment.
Room arrangements are flexible and there are plenty of spaces to choose from.
We have a variety of sized meeting rooms for hire that can be used with or without hire of the larger spaces.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/maxwell-building:
This landmark building is right at the front of the Peel Park Campus, clearly visible from the main road into Manchester.
The Maxwell Hall is comprised of an upper and lower hall.
The upper hall seats up to 1000 people and has a large stage and changing rooms.
The lower hall can be used as an exhibition area.
Adjoining the main hall, Maxwell Building has nine floors of classrooms, lecture theatres and meeting rooms.
Located on the seventh floor is the THINKlab, it's sleek design with colour, light, sound and the latest technology combine to create atmospheric stylish spaces for stimulating debate, collaboration and innovation.
There is a large cafeteria on the ground floor of the Maxwell Building which can be used for event catering.
For further information about the accessibility of this building please visit our partner disabledGO .
The Upper Hall seats 1000, in a theatre style lay- out and includes a 220 seat balcony.
The large stage has step access from the hall or from the wings.
There are changing rooms and a number of small rooms that can be used as green rooms.
The Upper Hall can also be used as a stranding venue with the seating removed or as an exhibition venue.
The size and flexibility of the space make an excellent choice for large or complex events.
Equipped with audio visual equipment, wireless network access is available.
The Lower Hall makes an excellent exhibition area when used in conjunction with the Upper Hall.The entrance foyer with its cloakroom is ideal for registering delegates or selling ‘on the door’ tickets.
With lecture theatres and classrooms of varying sizes (from 2 to 92) we can accommodate your event in traditional, comfortable surroundings with access to full audio-visual equipment.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/the-old-fire-station:
Opposite Peel Park, The Old Fire Station is an attractive, self-contained venue for small conferences and events.
The Council Chamber is the main meeting room, with a capacity of 90 delegates.
There are two break-out rooms, with a dedicated catering area in a spacious conservatory.
Changing displays of artworks in the Council Chamber showcase the university’s art collection, which includes works from national and international artists as well as work by our own staff and students.
The Albert Adams room contains a permanent display of the renowned South African’s work, which was kindly donated to the university by Ted Glennon.
Interested in using our facilities ?
Enquire now .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/mary-seacole-building:
Mary Seacole is the home of the College of Health and Social Care.
Its high-spec, working clinics and medical simulation facilities are very popular with TV production companies for location filming.
There are a large number of high quality lecture theatres and classrooms, with a 300-seat theatre complete with high quality audio visual facilities.
Smaller spaces can be hired individually for meetings and conferences or in conjunction with the main lecture theatre as break out spaces.
There are a number of specialist health spaces that are popular for location filming.
For information about the accessibility of this building please visit our partner disabledGO
Enquire now.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/allerton-building:
Allerton Building is a large multi-purpose building with many classrooms and lecture theatres.
There is also a large Sports’ Hall that is perfect for exams.
All the spaces are equipped with high standard audio visual facilities.
The large refectory makes for a perfect dining area in the evenings and at the weekend.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/sports-centre:
Our recently refurbished facilities include a 25-metre, five-lane, deck-level swimming pool, sauna and spa.
Children under the age of 18 may only use the pool when accompanied by an adult with a maximum of two children to one adult.
Five extensively refurbished fitness rooms provide the perfect spaces for Gym Based Exercise.
The Fitness Suites consist of a Cardio Room, Resistance Room, Two Strength Rooms and a Functional Training Room, we have everything you need from a training perspective.
We also have expert Instructors who can produce you a Personal Gym Program, to help assist you in achieving your health goals.
We deliver a variety of group exercise classes catered to all abilities within our Fitness Studio, these include Zumba, Yoga Pilates, Spinning and much more.
The Classes are a great way to stay fit and active throughout the year.
Our large multi-use sports hall has six Badminton courts, 2 Volleyball Training Courts and a Netball and Futsal Court.
We also facilitate full Court Basketball, alongside Table Tennis, Roller Derby, and more.
We have two recently refurbished squash courts, complete with viewing area.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/the-megalab:
The Megalab is located within our Cockcroft Building and is a brand new state-of-the-art lab equipped with the latest technologies.
The bright, modern space has been designed with interconnecting walls which can be easily configured into two, three or four separate laboratories, for maximum flexibility and occupancy.
The Megalab can hold up to 144 students at any oen time and when divided into four smaller laboratories can accommodate between 36 and 44 students each.
£360,000 has been invested in new top specification equipment for the site including a new AV system that allows the lecturer to be linked visually and audibly with some or all of the interconnected labs.
A network of suspended HD televisions will enable each student to see and hear the lecturer clearly from wherever they are, creating a better learning environment for our students.
A broad range of the School of Environment and Life Sciences subjects will be taught in the Megalab from biomedical science, wildlife and zoology through to medicinal chemistry, human biology and infectious diseases.
The flexible design will enable academics to teach larger classes and reduce the number of replicate classes allowing the opportunity to further develop our modules and programmes.
A brand new state-of-the-art lab equipped with the latest technologies
It is designed to be easily configured to separate laboratories

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/lecture-rooms:
We have multiple lecture rooms spread throughout the university's 3 campuses.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/performance-theatres:
Performance Theatres
We have multiple performance theatres spread throughout the University's 3 campuses:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/exhibition-areas:
We have multiple exhibition areas spread throughout the 3 campuses.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/computer-training-rooms:
Computer Training Rooms:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/classrooms:
Classrooms
We have multiple classrooms spread throughout the University's 3 campuses:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/meeting-rooms:
We have multiple meeting rooms spread throughout the University's 3 campuses:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/conference-management:
We offer a full management service for all of your event and conference needs.
This can be completely tailored to suit you, with the aim of giving you the time to concentrate on the conference programme and your guests.
This is a service open to all staff at the University and your chosen event can be at a venue either on or off campus.
We can work alongside Associations in the planning and delivery of your event if required.
We are happy to help you deliver your conference whether this be:
We provide full support at every step of the process
"The support from Clare Forster and her team throughout the entire process, from the preparation of the original bid onwards, has been absolutely crucial.
Without their support and their professional event management experience, I think it is true to say that the conference simply could not have happened."
Dr Darren Broom, Hiden Isochema
MH2014 Organising Committee
"I felt I had exactly the right amount of support being fully consulted where I needed to be but with the team taking responsibility for everything else.
Congratulations on such a professional service."
Professor Richard Baker
School of Health Sciences
Ambassadors
Manchester's Conference Ambassador Programme offers the partnerships and support necessary to inspire and enable individuals to host prestigious national and international conferences in Manchester.
Ambassadors are experts in their field.
Drawn from key academic and industry sectors, they are enthusiastic in their support for Manchester as a world class conference destination.
Ambassador-led conferences generate substantial economic impact for the city and raise the profile of Manchester's institutions and research areas.
Why become an Ambassador?
When you bid to host a conference in Manchester we will help you with one-to-one expert knowledge and support.
Our suite of valuable services to help you through the process, includes bid production, venue finding, accommodation booking and conference delivery services.
We have managed a number of conferences.
Please see a full list below:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/filming-and-photographysimulation-suite:
The University of Salford is an ideal location for filming and photography.
Almost all of our buildings and outdoor areas are available for hire, and our proximity to the motorway network makes us easily accessible.
From historic to futuristic, our buildings lend themselves to many different styles.
The grand Victorian Peel Building stands at the front of the campus and overlooks Peel Park.
Designed by the architect Henry Lord and built in 1896, this was originally the Salford Royal Technical Institute.
The façade is constructed of red Accrington bricks and sculpted terracotta.
Like its close neighbours  Salford Museum and Art Gallery and the Working Class Movement Library, Peel is Grade II listed.
We have a number of mid-twentieth century buildings which are ideal for location filming and regularly pop-up in TV drama shows.
The simulation suite, based in our Mary Seacole Building , is a world class, state-of-the-art facility which replicates a real hospital environment.
The facility provides a perfect environment for television and film recording, with all the authenticity of a real hospital and the support of knowledgeable staff.
Our MediaCityUK campus is ultra-modern.
Nestled between the BBC and ITV, we’re right at the heart of the UK’s media hub.
This unusual building has four floors and great views over the Quays.
The industry-standard facillities for hire at our MediaCityUK campus include two TV studios, two radio studios and a journalism suite.
We’re established in the location market and well-versed in the fast-paced needs of the film and television industry.
We have a wide range of happy clients who’ll vouch for our ability to accommodate even the most curious of requests.
The simulation suite at the University of Salford is a world class, state-of-the-art facility which replicates a real hospital environment.
Working in partnership with architects who specialise in designing healthcare environments, the suite has an authentic and modern ambience in keeping with a real  clinical  environment.
The facility provides a perfect environment for television and film recording, with all the authenticity of a real hospital and the support of knowledgeable staff.
On entering the suite, you immediately become immersed in the hospital environment.
Walking on real hospital flooring, passing a busy nurses station, the sounds of telephones ringing and nurse call buzzers creates an atmosphere in keeping with a hospital ward.
The suite is self-contained with a secure swipe card entry, ensuring that only those with permitted access are able to enter, guaranteeing that there are no distractions or unwelcome interruptions whilst working in the suite.
Within the suite there are a variety of hospital rooms which can be used for a range of scenarios, including:
The fixtures and fittings also add to the authenticity of the environment, including beds, cots, chairs and patient lockers.
Each bed space has simulated oxygen and suction, nurse call buttons, emergency buzzers, name boards and bed lights.
All of the clinical equipment is ordered from the NHS supplies directory, thus replicating what is found in a real hospital including needles, syringes, fluid-giving sets and wound dressings.
There is also a replica home environment where home visits and assessments can be carried out and includes a living area, bedroom, bathroom and kitchen.
The suite can be used for role play of scenarios with actors who are simulated patients.
There are also a number of human patient simulator manikins which are used for simulating specific clinical conditions.
The manikins can simulate a variety of clinical conditions including heart attack, pneumonia, major trauma and fitting.
This is not an exhaustive list; working alongside the technicians almost any health problems can be replicated using the manikins.
The SimMan3G manikin is extremely advanced and has a number of impressive features including palpable pulses, breath, heart and bowel sounds.
They can pass urine and can be catheterised, and have fluids and drugs administered.
There are nine simulators each with their own software, control device and bedside monitors.
The simulators include the following types:
These are operated by experienced simulation technicians from one of the three control rooms, each of which have one-way mirrored glass.
Our new immersive simulation room allows users to be transported to any environment without having to leave the suite.
The technology combines a series of cameras which project realistic images onto the walls, with audio  equipment to transform the space into anything from the back of an ambulance to a nightclub, prison cell or family home.
The suite is fully fitted with an audio-visual system which allows scenarios to be streamed, recorded and played back.
It is a discrete, multi-camera and microphone system by which different views (including close-ups of procedures) can be achieved.
Through advanced audio, a voice can be provided for  the manikins in response to the user’s interactions and clinical interventions carried out.
Contact us if you’re interested in using the facility or would like to take a tour.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/residential:
Ideal for residential conferences, sporting events and summer schools, the facilities also include access to our leisure centre with its swimming pool, spa, sauna, gym and sports courts.
Our new student accommodation is right at the heart of our main campus.
Overlooking Peel Park, and the highest spec accommodation on offer, it’s a perfect base for your delegates or summer school attendees.
The 1,367 en-suite rooms are just a short stroll from New Adelphi and Chapman Buildings and the Sports Centre.
Each apartment has its own kitchen and lounge space, and there are a cinema room, gym, TV and games room, group study lounges and a launderette.
All bedrooms come with a large 3/4 bed as standard.
In line with our commitment to the environment, the accommodation will be sustainable and energy-efficient with a target of achieving an ‘Excellent’ BREEAM rating.
Salford Student Residences in the top three best in the UK
PEEL PARK QUARTER has been a huge success with students since it opened its doors on our main campus in 2015.
The £81m development’s modern design includes multiple social spaces, fantastic views of the Manchester skyline and even two 30-seater cinemas!
Now, the complex which houses nearly 1,400 students has earned 3rd place out of almost 1,000 halls of residences around the country.
All rooms have:
All flats have:
John Lester Court and Eddie Colman Court are a short stroll away from the Frederick Road Campus and are ideally located for those attending events at Allerton and Mary Seacole buildings, A five minute walk from our main Peel Park campus and with excellent transport links to MediaCityUK and around Manchester, John Lester and Eddie Colman Courts provide an ideal base for your event in any of our facilities.
The property offers a mix of two, three or four bedroom flats with shared kitchen facilities.
All rooms include free Wi-Fi.
Each court has facilities for socialising and relaxing, including an on-site gym, TV and games room with a pool table, half-sized basketball court, and a launderette.
There’s also free gated parking for delegates.
At the University of Salford, we know how important it is to deliver an excellent language centre on a budget, and our facilities are ideally placed to provide this.
Our accommodation is plentiful and of a very high-standard, and we’re very flexible when it comes to tuning service levels to fit your budget.
We have a huge number of classrooms of varying shapes and sizes, all equipped with audio visual equipment and furnished to a high standard.
We understand that summer schools need communal space in the evenings for your attendees to relax, get to know each other and unwind after a long day of studying.
We have many social areas for various activities, including a theatre.
Our Sport Centre contains a wide range of facilities and equipment and can accommodate groups in the pool and the main hall.
Find out more about our Sport Centre
Accommodation can be booked on a full-board basis, with full meals available in our selection of refectories.
We can also provide packed lunches.
Together with our caterers, we offer a competitively priced package with excellent quality food.
We can accommodate special requirements: just let us know in advance what you need.
Have a look at our sample menus for a flavour of the food on offer.
An office is available for your staff, free of charge.
We can also help you set up your equipment for a small fee.
Manchester - famous for its music, shopping and, of course, football - is a compact city and easy to walk around.
For more information about the city, region and surrounding area see the Visit Manchester website.
We’re just over a mile from Manchester city centre.
Salford Crescent railway station, right in the middle of our Peel Park and Frederick Road campuses, runs a frequent service to the city centre and there are many different bus services to and from the city centre.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/hiring-a-venue-with-us:
Conferencing@Salford delivers first-class venue hire, location filming and event-managed conferences against the backdrop of the University of Salford’s striking portfolio.
To find out more about how we can help you, call us on 0161 295 5374 or email conference-com@salford.ac.uk
From historic Peel Park to futuristic MediaCityUK, our range of quality venues are complemented by the detailed and attentive management service we provide.
The level of our input is entirely your choice – our aim is to take care of the practicalities, leaving you free to concentrate on your delegates.
And, because we’re a social business, 100% of our profits go directly to scholarship funds, providing a real social impact.
Our wide range of venues, each with its own unique characteristics, is complemented by our professional management service.
As well as a wealth of different venues to choose from - each with its own unique characteristics - we have a team of dedicated staff to help you deliver your event.
Our aim is to take care of the practicalities leaving you free to concentrate on your delegates.
We take your privacy seriously.
View our privacy notice for more information about the University’s Privacy Policy.
We offer a range of catering options for events and conferences.
See our hospitality information for more details on catering options and contact details.
"I was involved in the organisation of the 14th International Symposium on Metal-Hydrogen Systems (MH2014), with Professor Keith Ross and the Salford Conference Office, from the original bid presentation in Moscow in July 2010 to the conference itself, which was held in Salford Quays four years later.
The support from Clare Forster and her team throughout the entire process, from the preparation of the original bid onwards, has been absolutely crucial.
Without their support and their professional event management experience, I think it is true to say that the conference simply could not have happened.
For me, one particularly notable aspect of their involvement was the fact that Clare and her team would never hesitate to step in and help with any aspect of the conference organisation, regardless of whether it was strictly within their remit or not.
One of my favourite pieces of feedback from MH2014 came from a senior academic who thanked us at the end of the week for a ‘wonderful conference’.
I do not think that we would have received comments such as these if it wasn’t for the efforts of Clare and her team, and I would not hesitate to recommend them in the future."
Dr Darren Broom
"We've already had feedback from delegates, and our teams in Asia…with people citing the venue as adding much energy to the event.
I thought the space worked really well, with the video and touch screens adding something unique."
Dominic Lyons
"The technical guys couldn't have done a better job and we thought the venue was great."
Lisa Johnson
"Clare Forster and Vicky Beckett from the University of Salford Conference Office provided the full conference support for the major international conference, MH2014, held at the Lowry Centre in Salford Quays in July 2014.
This was the latest in a major series of conferences on the behaviour of hydrogen in metals.
The conference was attended by some 450 delegates from some 40 countries.
The organisation involved a mixture of plenaries, four parallel sessions and poster sessions, in addition to a number of very successful social events.
Clare and Vicky handled all aspects of the administration, from preparing the original successful bid to host the conference which was presented at MH2012 in Kyoto to leading a team of post-graduate students who looked after the delegates in a very friendly and efficient way.
They handled all the administration including the abstract submission and registrations, a prior student summer school and a satellite meeting for the International Energy Agency.
It was very noticeable that all the delegates got to know Vicky and Clare very quickly and they were able to give names to most of the delegates by the end of the week.
The whole conference was a major success for which they can be justly proud!
The conference was probably the biggest and most international ever held at Salford and its success was very much down to the efforts of Clare and Vicky."
Professor Keith Ross
"I've now worked with the Conference Office for two conferences.
The Clinical Movement Analysis Society (CMAS) Annual Scientific Meeting in 2017 was a 2 day national meeting which attracted a total of 84 delegates (54 paying) and 10 industrial sponsor exhibitors.
The meeting was held at MediaCityUK.
This included a keynote by video link to the USA.
The 3D Analysis of Human Movement Symposium (3dAHMS) is a Technical Group of the International Society of Biomechanics and the three day meeting will be held at Salford in July 2018.
We hope to attract just over 200 delegates and 10-15 sponsors.
The support I’ve had for both of these conferences has been exemplary.
The Conference Office have taken away as much of the burden of organising the conference as possible whilst still allowing the organisers full control of what is planned.
For both conferences they  have provided us with a range of suggestions for different aspects of conference organisation and talked us through the pros and cons of both.
They have been particularly useful in providing solutions that match our budget particularly in re-arranging the venue for the 3dAHMS at a fairly late stage when we realised that we had made a mistake in the early budget proposals.
They understand the Greater Manchester conference environment and are well connected with a range of local commercial and other providers (such as the Lowry Theatre and Old Trafford).
Overall the service has been efficient and professional and made organising both these conferences a pleasure."
"Absolutely brilliant service.
We have worked with University of Salford for years and would never choose to go anywhere else."

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/meet-your-team:
The Conference Team at Salford look forward to working with you
Clare has over 30 years’ experience in conference, event and hospitality management.
She has headed up the team here at Salford for 15 years and led the development of the conference management service.
Clare has a love of music, wildlife and the natural world and is also a Border Morris Dancer!
Vicky graduated in Hospitality Management 22 years ago and joined the University of Salford shortly after.
Vicky focuses on the conference management service side of the business and brings her organisational skills to the delivery of these events from start to finish.
Vicky enjoys reading, cycling and music and admits to being an Eddie Stobart spotter.
Esther has a background in the travel industry and joined the University in 1998.
She has a wealth of experience in event coordination and facilitates all the events on our main Campus.
Esther travels extensively and enjoys walking and dining out- usually at the same time.
Emma has over 20 years' experience in event management and has been at the University of Salford since 2003.
Emma manages the commercial events at the MediaCity campus, which also incorporates the creative studio spaces.
In her spare time Emma enjoys travel and going to the cinema.
Tamsin is a University of Salford graduate, having studied Music here until 2007.
Tamsin coordinates University high profile events which take place at our MediaCity campus including the annual Science Jam.
Tamsin enjoys playing softball for Manchester Mavericks and performs with two bands in her spare time.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/our-partners:
As well as working closely with our partners, we are also a member of all our partner organisations.
Marketing Manchester is the city-region's official destination marketing organisation, promotional agency, and home of the Manchester Convention Bureau.
The Manchester Convention Bureau team works alongside the Conferencing Team here at Salford to support our academics in hosting national and international meetings.
They’re a not-for-profit organisation and the support they offer is free-of-charge.
They offer a range of complimentary support services to assist with every stage of the process, from bid stage through to the conference taking place in the city.
The Manchester Convention Bureau also manages the Manchester Conference Ambassador Programme , a network of academics and professionals who have a shared interest in hosting events in Greater Manchester.
The Meetings Industry Association is one of the largest associations in the conference, meetings and events sector.
This not-for-profit organisation has given the industry an accreditation scheme, industry awards, invaluable research and a voice to government.
Greater Manchester Chamber of Commerce is the largest Chamber of Commerce in the UK.
As an independent, not-for-profit private company, the  Chamber influences key decision-makers in local and central government.
It is regularly consulted for feedback from the business community when policy is being developed, locally and nationally.
Unique Venues of Manchester (UVM) was established in 2013 and is the first group of its  kind in the region.
Dedicated to the promotion and celebration of unusual and unique venues in Manchester, it follows in the footsteps of established groups such as Unique Venues of London and Unique Venues of Edinburgh.
Its aim is to promote high quality event spaces and facilities in some of the city’s  most exceptional and inspirational settings.
Academic Venue Solutions (AVS) is a membership consortium of academic venues that have facilities for hire.
A not-for-profit-organisation, their main role is to generate venue enquiries for members.
Membership also has the advantage of gaining access to industry research and taking part in knowledge sharing and networking opportunities.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/conferencing/catering:
Whether you're planning a sophisticated working lunch or a full-day event, the University of Salford offers a range of options to suit various budgets and requirements.
We pride ourselves on using high-quality and locally sourced ingredients for our dishes.
This ensures that our menu items are not only flavoursome but also incredibly fresh and sustainable.
Our commitment to quality extends beyond just the ingredients too; it includes the entire experience from the moment you place an order to the very end of your event.
No matter how small or big your occasion is, our experienced catering team will make sure we deliver a service that is tailored to meet your specific needs and requirements.
Our online system lets you easily browse our extensive hospitality menu and select the perfect items for your event.
Choose from a wide range of sandwiches, finger buffets, international dishes, desserts, drinks, and more.
You’ll need to be on the University of Salford's network to access the site (either by being on campus or by connecting remotely with a VPN).
If you don’t have access to the network, please get in touch by emailing us through the address provided in the 'Contact us' section.
If you would like to discuss a bespoke event or have any queries, please email catering-hospitality@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities/neric-northern-engineering-and-robotics-innovation-centre:
The Northern Engineering and Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) is a focal point of the University of Salford’s commitment to industry collaboration, innovation and skills.
Email: neric@salford.ac.uk
Find us at:
NERIC Building Technology House Salford M6 6AP
neric.salford.ac.uk
NERIC is a beacon for the university’s robotics and automation specialisms, with a £16 million facility, which has been part funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and Research England (RE).
Serving as a hub for small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) looking to design, test and validate innovation in a rapidly growing area.
The centre offers SMEs a one-stop shop for developing and applying robotics and automation alongside other innovative digital technologies in their business.
Discover the Northern Engineering and Robotics Innovation Centre on YouTube.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities/laura-the-leverhulme-trust-aural-diversity-doctoral-research-hub:
The Leverhulme Trust Aural Diversity Doctoral Research Hub provides inter-disciplinary PhD and Masters training in the study of hearing and listening differences.
Applications are now open for September 2025 entry – closing date 28 February 2025.
For further information on The Leverhulme Doctoral Centre for Aural Diversity, then email us at:
see-laura@salford.ac.uk
Website:
The Leverhulme Doctoral Centre for Aural Diversity
LAURA brings together supervisors from almost every discipline involved with sound, including acoustics, anthropology, art, architecture, computer science, education, engineering, English literature, music, occupational science, psychology, sociology and speech.
You can study for a PhD, MPhil, or Masters+PhD with LAURA.
We invite applications annually.
Full funding is available for a limited number of talented students.
LAURA researchers can use a wide range of world-class facilities, including the acoustics labs and EEG, fNIRS and TMS facilities.
You should have a minimum of a First-class undergraduate degree or a 2:1 + Masters in a relevant area.
If you do not meet these requirements, but feel you have relevant experience akin to Masters, please contact the team explaining these factors prior to application via see-laura@salford.ac.uk .
Conditional offers can be made for students currently on such a course.
Some of the PhD topics involve studying a particular group of aurally divergent people – for example, there are several suggested projects on autistic hearing.
If you have a hearing difference yourself or otherwise identify with the group you wish to study, then we particularly encourage you to apply.
A range of aural diversity is represented in the supervisors and directors of LAURA.
If you are from one or more of the groups listed below then we can offer you additional support during the application process, such as a mentor who could offer advice on your draft application.
Enquire about being matched with an independent mentor by emailing see-laura@salford.ac.uk .
These groups are under-represented in research: You are from an ethnic group that is underrepresented in research careers (Black, Asian, or Minority Ethnic).
You identify as having a disability.
The term ‘disability’ is quite broad, and further definitions of what might be considered a ‘disability’ can be found under the Equality Act 2010.
You are a first-generation student (you are the first person in your family to go to university).
You are a mature student (you were aged 21 or over when you started your first undergraduate course).
You are care-experienced or an estranged student.
These groups are under-represented in research:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities/co-lab:
For more information on Co-Lab, please contact Alexander Leonard:
a.d.leonard@salford.ac.uk
The empathy lab is a dedicated space designed to foster a deeper understanding of accessibility and inclusivity through the simulation of various disabilities.
This initiative is crucial for promoting empathy among students, faculty, and staff, enabling them to experience firsthand the challenges faced by individuals with disabilities.
The purpose of having such a lab is twofold: to raise awareness about the importance of creating accessible and inclusive environments, and to encourage the development of services, products, and content that are mindful of diverse user needs.
The Empathy Lab serves as a practical resource for learning and innovation, where the university community can engage with a range of assistive technologies and accessibility tools.
By simulating conditions like vision or hearing impairments, mobility challenges, and neurodiversity, the lab helps cultivate a culture of empathy.
In its current form the empathy lab simulates four conditions Autism, ADHD, Dyslexia, Vision impairment.
A permanent location is to be confirmed.
For further information, please contact Alexander Leonard.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities/sports-hall-and-3g-pitch:
Sports Centre
+44 (0)161 295 5060 sportleisure-com@salford.ac.uk
In addition to our advanced Sport Science Laboratories , sports and exercise students from the School of Health and Society learn and train in our on-site Sports Centre facilities, which include a six-court sports hall and a £1m floodlit 3G pitch.
Our sports programmes regularly utilise these spaces for activities such as performance analysis, recording and monitoring athletes with GPS trackers, camera equipment, and analysis software.
Rehabilitation students also develop their knowledge and techniques in providing pitch-side support and therapy.
These facilities are also available to the local community, students, and staff for a range of activities.
Find out more via our Sports Centre webpage .
Explore the wide range of facilities used by the School of Health and Society .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities/clinical-skills-plinth-rooms:
In our clinical skills plinth rooms, students practice new skills in an equipped environment under the supervision of qualified practitioners.
Our Frederick Road campus features several plinth rooms used by Physiotherapy and Sport Rehabilitation students from the School of Health and Society .
These rooms are equipped with multi-purpose couches for clinical training sessions, offering a versatile and supportive setting for hands-on learning.
Students can explore a range of musculoskeletal and physiology-related issues, acquiring key skills in providing support, relief, and guidance.
Some of these spaces can be expanded to accommodate large cohort teaching, while others are outfitted with the latest audio-visual technology to support virtual learning and assessment.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities/digital-immersive-video-environment:
Our Digital Immersive Video Environment lets students train in and understand various settings they wouldn't usually access, like police cells, ambulances, and isolated locations.
Health and Society Simulation and Skills Team
We have two Digital Immersive Video Environment (DIVE) facilities located in the Mary Seacole building on our Frederick Road campus.
These facilities are primarily utilised by the School of Health and Society for programmes in nursing, midwifery, allied health, and policing.
The DIVE allows users to experience various environments within a single room.
This cutting-edge system employs multiple cameras to project realistic images onto the walls.
Additionally, the spaces are equipped with advanced sound equipment, enabling the transformation of the room into settings such as an ambulance, nightclub, prison cell, or family home.
Tracking tools enable users to interact with the displayed scenes and options.
For example, they can explore a crime scene or examine internal organs to understand the impact of specific medical conditions.
The rooms feature a comprehensive audio-visual system for streaming, recording, and replaying scenarios, offering multiple perspectives, including close-ups of procedures, which support evaluation and assessment.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities/centre-for-sustainable-innovation-services:
Sara Boswell, Director of Centre for Sustainable Innovation
s.l.boswell@salford.ac.uk
For more information email us at:
sustainable-innovation@salford.ac.uk
sustainable-innovation.salford.ac.uk
In the rapidly changing landscape of business, sustainability isn’t just an option – it's a necessity.
Businesses face numerous challenges on their journey towards growth, environmental and financial sustainability and innovation.
Limited resources, lack of expertise and market pressures often hinder their progress.
That's where the Centre for Sustainable Innovation (CSI) steps in – a guiding light for businesses ready to embrace a greener, more profitable future.
Transform your business, secure your future
At the CSI, we understand the unique struggles businesses face.
Our comprehensive, wrap-around services are tailored to address your specific needs.
Imagine having access to cutting-edge research, expert consultations, and collaborative space all under one roof!
In this ever-changing world of digital innovation the University of Salford is at the forefront of many digital first projects and initiatives across the region, transforming the educational and working environment in Greater Manchester and beyond.
From start-ups to multinationals, we have the experience and knowledge to implement processes that improve profitability, enhance revenue and restructure your processes to best fit with the demands of today’s economic landscape.
In this turbulent economy, rising pressure from policy makers and the global concern for the environment have added multiple stresses to industry and business leaders.
Let our experts guide you to a brighter, more profitable future, with our expertise in sustainability and net-zero practices.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/our-facilities/sel-translation-services:
It empowers businesses, making them more profitable and more competitive.
Contact us today for a professional language service covering over 30 working languages.
To find out more, contact Patrick Murphy, Translations Manager:
seluk.translation@gmail.com
+44 (0)7724 179 665
LinkedIn: Patrick Murphy
X: @patrick_SEL
Professional translation service for business
Services for Export and Language (SEL) is the translation company wholly owned by the University of Salford.
For over 30 years we have generated commercial income for the University by offering a high quality, professional translation service to industry partners.
We have formed close relationships with leading translators and translation partners across the globe to help us deliver a quality service to our customers.
We offer:
SEL provides an unrivalled quality translation service in all languages and specialisms including medical, legal, technical, web, marketing and financial.
Competitive, fair pricing and the integrity that comes with being part of a renowned university gives you the guarantee of receiving a great service that is right first time and fit for purpose.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/request-for-activity:
Please use this form to enquire about working with our post-16 team, join our teacher newsletter, or request a hard copy of our study guide.
Your information will be processed and stored in accordance with the Data Protection Act (2018) and the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) and will be used solely to keep you informed about the University of Salford.
Please read our Privacy Statement for more details.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/post-16-support:
That’s why we work with you to create a bespoke programme of events to suit your needs, which will enable your students to gain an insight into university life.
Our dedicated Outbound Team are here to support your students directly through a variety of engagement activities as detailed below.
Our primary role is traveling all across the UK to meet your students, providing information, advice, and guidance about their futures and studying at Salford.
From attending your higher education events, to hosting your students on our campus, find out more about the ways in which we can...
Find out more about our recruitment team and the different ways we can support you and your students.
From attending your Higher Education (HE) events, to hosting your students on our campus, find out more about the team behind...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/widening-participation:
We collaborate with schools and colleges across Greater Manchester to provide young people with impartial information, advice, and guidance (IAG) on pathways into higher education and the university experience.
Through our activities and events, we empower learners to make informed decisions about their future, ensuring they have the knowledge and confidence to pursue higher education if they choose to do so.
Our partnerships with key organisations and charities are central to our commitment to widening access and participation.
By breaking down perceived barriers to higher education, we strive to create a student body that reflects the diversity of society.
We work to inspire, engage, and enable students from underrepresented backgrounds by raising awareness, challenging inequalities, and providing meaningful opportunities to explore university life.
We deliver a broad range of initiatives, from early engagement at primary school to tailored post-16 support.
Our bespoke activities address the unique challenges faced by care-experienced students, young carers, estranged students, ethnic minority students, disabled young people, children from military families, and other underrepresented groups, ensuring equitable access to higher education for all.
For activities we ask that learners are selected for participation from the following targeting criteria:
Visit the website to check participation by postcode Office for Students .
To book onto any of our events you can contact us at outreach@salford.ac.uk .
Our on-campus activities are a great way to engage students with our University, and enable them to discover more about their opportunities for the future.
We can provide a bespoke programme to suit your needs, which may include:
Our 'Explore' Days give learners the opportunity to experience what it's like to study a particular subject at university.
The workshops are delivered by a university lecturer or postgraduate student who will deliver a workshop in their subject area.
The learners will see the building, teaching space, lab or lecture theatre where the subject is taught to students, and the workshops are engaging and exciting for the learners to participate in.
Our current 'Explore' days are offered in the following subject areas:
The subject areas offered may change as academic staff time is limited, and some Explore days are offered on specific dates.
Please get in touch to discuss your booking request: outreach@salford.ac.uk
We are happy to arrange bespoke online or on campus visits for Targeted Learners.
This could be arranged on an individual or group basis for students with a disability , young carer , care experienced or estranged students .
Young carers are currently caring for a family member who could not manage without help due to frailty, physical or mental illness, addiction or disability.
Care experienced students are or have been in the care of the local authority, may be known as 'looked after child'.
Estranged students are young people who have no contact with their parents due to a breakdown in the relationship.
Activities can include campus tours, tailored HE workshops, student support talks, academic talks or tours.
We also support a number of targeted learner events throughout the year as part of Greater Manchester Higher.
If you are in Greater Manchester we can visit you and deliver any of our presentations and workshops to groups of students.
We can also deliver teacher or key influencer CPD presentations as part of training sessions.
If you are interested in any of our targeted learner outreach please contact outreach@salford.ac.uk to discuss your requirements.
To find out more about the support we offer for targeted learners please visit our student support page.
Greater Manchester Higher is a collaborative network of higher education providers, and is part of the funded Uni Connect programme, a nationally coordinated approach to working with schools, universities, and colleges to help people access higher education.
GM Higher aim to improve the provision of information, advice and guidance about progression routes to higher education, alongside offering a menu of activities to raise the aspirations of young people in Greater Manchester.
As partners in the network, the University of Salford Outreach and Widening Participation Team contribute to the events and activities delivered as part of the programme.
The programme includes activity at partner institutions such as campus visits, and in-school activity such as talks and information, advice and guidance stands for careers events.
Full details of upcoming events and booking information can be found on the GM Higher website.
Greater Manchester Higher are committed to attending information and guidance events in schools, to promote higher education to learners in Greater Manchester.
Examples of events we might attend include:
We also offer a wide range of presentations and workshops including:
Full details of the presentations and workshops we can deliver and how to book in a representative can be found on the GM Higher website.
We provide three short, intensive summer school programmes designed to support learners from underrepresented backgrounds in accessing higher education.
They provide students with a taste of university life, through academic workshops, subject tasters and skills and knowledge building activities...with a little fun thrown in there too.
The programmes are designed for students who may face barriers to accessing HE, by offering guidance and advice around pathways and work directly with current students at the university.
The opportunities on offer include: The current offer includes programmes for:
Year 12, focused on Biosciences 'Breaking the Mould' For more information on how to apply, please contact outreach@salford.ac.uk .
The University of Salford has partnered with the University of Manchester to fund an IntoUniversity centre in Salford.
IntoUniversity is the UK’s largest university-access charity, providing welcoming environment's for young people to learn, explore and succeed.
The Salford Central centre opened in autumn 2022 providing primary and secondary academic support, mentoring, subject tasters and interventions with Salford and Manchester universities.
The Beacon Centre, where IntoUniversity are located, is at the heart of the community in Salford, and provides a home-from-home setting for learners and their parents and carers to engage in the opportunities on offer.
The Widening Participation Team work closely with IntoUniversity to support their programme of events and activities for their learners, including bringing groups onto campus, hosting the graduation ceremonies for the end of their projects, and sending students and academic staff into the centre to deliver engaging workshops.
Plug into Salford is a programme for first year students who are the first person in their family to go to university and have no family background of higher education, this project is designed to support transition from college into student life.
Participants have the chance to meet other first generation students, make friends and build connections and build their sense of belonging at Salford.
This programme takes place in September in the first week before the university officially welcomes students onto campus for their induction.
It is free for students to take part, and participants receive a £1100 scholarship paid via two instalments of £550 during the first and second trimester after they enroll.
The National Saturday Club is a UK-wide initiative designed to inspire and support young people by providing free opportunities to explore subjects they are passionate about outside of the school curriculum.
The University of Salford STEM Saturday Club is part of this national network, offering young people aged 13–16 the chance to engage with exciting hands-on STEM activities in a university environment.
Our STEM Saturday Club introduces students to the topic of animal conservation, biodiversity and sustainability through interactive workshops, expert-led sessions, and access to state-of-the-art facilities, club members develop critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork skills while gaining a deeper understanding of this subject field.
The University of Salford STEM Saturday Club is free and open to 13–16-year-olds from all backgrounds.
No prior understanding of the topic is needed—just curiosity and enthusiasm!
The club is designed to be an inclusive and supportive space, encouraging participation from underrepresented groups in higher education.
More information about clubs and booking a space can be found on the National Saturday Club website.
We are working with The Brilliant Club to deliver their Scholars Programme in local schools in Greater Manchester.
The Brilliant Club train our PhD students to deliver engaging and inspiring programmes to share their subject knowledge and passion for learning with small groups in school.
The programme has a positive impact on learners GCSE attainment, and gives them a chance to work closely with a club Tutor, and graudate from the programme within a university setting.
The learners work on a challenging final assignment, which is marked and moderated using university grades.
This is a unique experience for schools to take part in the eight week programme.
For more information on hosting a club tutor in school, or to discuss the programme, please contact outreach@salford.ac.uk
Please see the information below that will give you the details you need to plan, book and prepare for your activity with the Outreach and Widening Participation Team.
If you have any questions about how it will work or if you need additional information, please get in touch at outreach@salford.ac.uk .
The day will start with our student ambassadors meeting you and your learners at one of the drop off points on campus to take you to a lecture theatre for the welcome talk.
Whilst the learners are completing the pre-evaluations, you will be given a timetable of the day and we will take a register of the learners too (which we normally ask for in advance).
An Outreach Officer will then deliver the introduction before the learners are sent to their first workshop, which will be around Higher Education and the choices they will face when picking their next options.
Afterwards, the Student Ambassadors will deliver a tour of our Peel Park Campus which will give the learners the opportunity to ask questions about the different courses available and what life is like at the university.
After the tour, in most cases, lunch will be provided for learners and teaching staff in the form of a voucher that can be spend at one of the designated restaurants.
Following lunch there is one more workshop and a final get together where learners complete the post-evaluations and participate in a Student Ambassador Q&A session, where again learners can ask any questions about HE and their experiences.
You will then be directed back to your coach by our Student Ambassadors.
Key points:
University of Salford, Maxwell Building, 43 Crescent, Salford M5 4WT – we may give you an alternative drop off and pick up point depending on the location of the welcome talk, but we will give you this information in advance
If you are booking a GM Higher event, please view the Events and Activities page on the website or for all over events please email outreach@salford.ac.uk .
Access our travel page for directions to the university, just scroll down the page for instructions via car.
If you need to cancel your event, please do so only as a last resort as there are a number of costs we incur as a team based on your booking e.g.
catering and student ambassador payments.
Please get in contact with the team to discuss any additional requirements, we can only make adjustments to the event if we are aware of these in advance.
Prior to booking:
After booking/prior to the event:
On the day of the event:
No, we do not charge a fee for our visits.
Parking is only available in exceptional circumstances - if you need to discuss parking please contact outreach @salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/resources-and-guides:
Our resource library contains all the latest resources and guides to support you and your students, as well as some useful links to external resources.
For many mature students returning to education can feel daunting.
Our Mature Students' guide provides advice and guidance to help answer some of the questions and concerns you may have about returning to study.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/contact-us:
Get in touch with the team to discuss how we may be able to work with your school or college.
If you are interested in a digital copy of our prospectus, you can order a prospectus .
Students can use any of the following methods to get in touch:

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/leadership-and-management-courses:
In order to excel, leaders need the practical skills and knowledge to structure their organisation effectively, as well as the soft skills to manage and inspire people.
We have developed a portfolio of Leadership and Management courses that focuses on sharpening the specific aspects of a leader’s toolkit, such as finance, strategy, shaping culture or leadership behaviours.
Our Leadership and Management courses take place both online and face-to-face and are accredited by by either the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) or Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM).
The Advanced Leadership for Directors programme is an intensive, two-day course designed…
University of Salford Campus
£750 + VAT
Director Training
The ILM Level 5 Certificate in Leadership and Management is designed for practising middle…
£1995 + VAT
Leadership and Management
The ILM Level 5 Diploma in Leadership and Management is designed for practising middle…
£2595 + VAT
This Mini MBA in Digital Transformation course is essential preparation for those looking…
Virtual Classroom
£1050 + VAT
Marketing and Digital
The Mini MBA course is ideal for executives seeking to improve their knowledge across a…
£2400 + VAT
Managing a busy Primary Care setting requires exceptional multitasking skills and the…
£2150 + VAT
Healthcare
The ILM Level 5 Certificate in Coaching and Mentoring qualification equips practising…
From £1550 + VAT
The ILM Level 7 Certificate in Coaching and Mentoring is perfect for senior professionals…
This ILM Level 7 in Coaching and Mentoring Diploma training programme will enhance your…
£2950 + VAT
Strong leaders are the backbone of any successful business.
Developing strong leadership and management skills within an organisation is crucial in creating productive, high-performing teams, that help create positive culture and direction to help your organisation flourish.
Undertaking a leadership and management course with SPD will allow you to:
Our professionally accredited and CPD certified Leadership and Management courses equip people, teams and organisations with the skills to succeed, change and grow.
Our ILM certified coaching and mentoring courses increase the communication skills, emotional intelligence and interpersonal skills of management teams to help deliver organisational objectives.
Our Directors Key Competence Programmes offer new and experienced directors the opportunity to develop their own CPD through bite-size classes on the core competencies: Strategy, Leadership, Governance and Finance.
We run an array of marketing and digital courses for industry professionals in a variety of roles - from data analysts to digital marketing managers.
Our courses are delivered by industry experts and supported by leading media partners.
As part of the University of Salford, Salford Professional Development can draw on over 100 years of experience in education and training.
Working closely with the award-winning business school, we are seeking to make amazing training more accessible to those who wish to take their career to the next level.
Our impressive range of short professionally accreditied and CPD courses are delivered by renowned academics and experts who have first-hand experience of leading in their field.
Whatever business challenges you face, we can work with you to enhance your organisation's performance through in-house, bespoke or tailored training programmes.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/marketing-and-digital-courses:
SPD runs an array of courses and conferences for industry professionals in a variety of roles – from data architects to digital marketing managers.
The subject matter covered within our courses is vast and all-encompassing, delivered by industry experts and supported by leading media partners.
This one-day course explores the transformative potential of generative AI in business and…
£900 + VAT
We have developed a portfolio of courses that focuses on sharpening the specific aspects of a leader’s toolkit, such as finance, strategy, shaping culture or leadership behaviours.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/healthcare-cpd-courses-and-conferences:
Our Healthcare CPD Courses and Conferences are aligned with the University of Salford’s School of Health and Society to support your continued professional development.
Whether you are looking for a CPD certified Healthcare course or one of our industry leading conferences, we are confident that our offerings can help you achieve your professional development goals.
The Healthcare Leadership Programme is a two-day leadership training programme based on…
£950 + VAT
For all current or aspiring managers and team leaders operating in an NHS or healthcare…
£1250 + VAT
The Clinical Governance for Senior Leaders training course is for current and aspiring…
£1750 + VAT
The CMI Level 7 accredited Strategic Leadership for Healthcare Programme will enable…
Join us at the 11th Annual Operating Theatres Conference, where we will explore the latest…
£0 + VAT
Health and Social Care
Every year, thousands of delegates attend our courses and conferences from across the public and private sector, particularly representatives from local authorities, government departments and agencies, criminal justice departments (including the police and courts), NHS, education providers, housing associations, charities and the private sector.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/director-level-training-courses:
The Directors Key Competence Programmes offer new and experienced directors the opportunity to develop their own CPD through bite-size classes on the core competencies: Strategy, Leadership, Governance and Finance.
Each programme is a two-day, in-depth class which will provide leaders with the knowledge and skills to be a high-performing director, preparing them for the demands and challenges that they face in the real world.
Following completion of the four programmes, delegates will be eligible to apply for an ILM Level 7 qualification.
The Director Development Programme is a 5-day acceleration director-level training course…
£2800 + VAT
Finance for Non-Finance Directors Programme is a two-day streamlined course that will…
£1175 + VAT
The Directors Strategy Programme is a two-day intensive course that will differentiate…
Salford Professional Development is pleased to introduce the operation excellence…
The role of the Non Executive director has never been more important.
Salford Professional…
£995 + VAT
The Certified Directors Programme (CDP) is an elite training programme uniquely designed for experienced directors aiming to deepen their expertise, sharpen their strategic acumen and solidify their experience with a qualification.
The programme is structured to enhance your capabilities in four key areas: leadership, governance, finance, and strategy.
The CDP is designed for CEO’s, Directors and Global Leaders who have the responsibility for developing and implementing effective, ethical and collective strategies across their organisation.
We run an array of marketing and digital courses for industry professionals in a variety of roles – from data analysts to digital marketing managers.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/courses:
As a wholly owned subsidiary of The University of Salford, Salford Professional Development can draw on years of experience in education and training.
Working closely with Salford Business School, The Digital Marketing Institute, The Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and The Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM), we are seeking to make amazing training more accessible to those who wish to take their careers to the next level.
Our impressive range of professional development courses are delivered by renowned academics and industry experts who have first-hand experience in their field.
These short courses are designed to enhance your skills and knowledge in the workplace and help you meet mandatory training requirements in your profession.
Learn actionable remote leadership strategies to manage and motivate virtual teams effectively.
Discover how to be a successful leader…
Want to know the top trending skills for 2025?
Here we look into the importance of Digital Transformation, Resilience, Emotional…

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/conferences:
Salford Professional Development helps delegates to achieve their career goals through lifelong learning and development programmes that draw upon years of educational excellence.
As a leader in conferences and events, our events provide a platform for learning and networking.
Every year, thousands of delegates attend our conferences from across the public and private sector, particularly representatives from local authorities, government departments and agencies, criminal justice departments (including the police and courts), NHS, education providers, housing associations, charities and the private sector.
Take a look at our upcoming conferences below.
Children typically spend between 13,000 and 22,000 hours in school throughout their…
Education
Salford Professional Development are proud to bring you The SEND Conference.
Our events range from larger exhibitions to more tailored conference formats.
The events are designed to bring together high level decision makers, keynote speakers and suppliers to discuss the latest trends and best practices.
Every event allows plenty of time to network, ask pertinent questions, and hear from industry leads.
To reflect the personalised nature of the events we have a limited amount of sponsorship and exhibition opportunities available for key suppliers/organisations to engage with the attendees.
If you are an organisation interested in sponsoring or exhibiting at one of our conferences please contact our dedicated sponsorship team on 0161 295 3000 or fill out the short enquiry form below.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/become-sponsor:
Salford Professional Development runs hundreds of events per year which are based around a diverse range of sectors such as healthcare, education, housing, media, and public services.
The events range from larger exhibitions to more tailored conference formats.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/bespoke-and-in-house-training:
Your Training, Your Way
At Salford Professional Development, we understand that every organisation is unique.
Whether you need a proven course delivered at a location of your choice or a fully customised training programme designed to address the specific needs of your industry and sector, we are here to help.
By contextualising training to your organisation, we ensure that your team benefits from content that is relevant, practical, and impactful.
Bespoke training allows your workforce to tackle challenges head-on, close critical skills gaps, and achieve long-term success.
Our dedicated team of experts takes the hassle out of planning and delivering training.
From start to finish, we manage the entire process, minimising disruption and maximising results.
Whether you're training large groups, focusing on specialised areas, or providing one-to-one executive coaching, we design the perfect solution for your business—no matter how broad or niche the topic.
Through our tailored approach, we ensure that the training is aligned to your goals and objectives.
Our pre-course consultation process allows our tutors to gain a deep understanding of your organisation, so every session is tailored to meet your needs and deliver real value.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/salford-professional-development-room-hire:
Adelphi House, conveniently located on the edge of Manchester City Centre is your perfect option for venue hire in Manchester.
Whether you’re looking to host a conference, administer team training or find a new meeting space, then we are confident we have the facilities you need to make your event a success.
Choose from six different room types, ranging from intimate meeting rooms all the way up to a large conferencing space which can host up to 90 delegates.
All our rooms for hire are available for setup in either Theatre, Classroom or Cabaret style.
What's included?
For more information about how you can utilise our venue and availability, enquire today.
The largest available room for hire within Adelphi House, perfect for:
This room can accommodate up to 90 people.
A bright, light, and airy space, perfect for:
Parking is available at the Adelphi House Rear Car Park at the back of the building, as indicated on the map below for an additional charge.
Public transport - Adelphi House is easily reached by bus, the nearest bus stop is just after a set of traffic lights on top of Chapel Street.
Adelphi House is easily accessible from two local stations: Salford Crescent and Salford Central.
Salford Crescent station is just a 10-minute walk down The Crescent to Adelphi House.
The map here shows this.
You will notice that you are walking towards City Centre Manchester and see it on the horizon as you walk towards Adelphi House.
Salford Central station is also a 10-minute walk in the opposite direction away from City Centre Manchester, as this map indicates here .
Adelphi House is equipped with a ramp outside its main entrance and has an elevator for access to all floors.
Accessible toilets can be found on the ground floor by the reception area and we have two accessible parking spaces available at the front of Adelphi House.
Unfortunately, there are no automatic doors in the building but our friendly team are always on hand to assist with accessing the building.
There are several hotels conveniently located near to Adelphi House these include
The Ainscow Boutique Hotel | The Holiday Inn | The Premier Inn | Marriott Salford Quays
Adelphi House was built in 1808 as a two-storey home by Samuel Bury, its occupant for 28 years.
Over the years Bury's 2-storey house underwent numerous redesigns and additions.
In 1853 the nuns of the Order of the Faithful Companions of Jesus moved into the house.
Their order had been founded in France but moved to England in 1830 settling first in the area near today's Euston Station in London.
The mission of the nuns was to, "reach out to the spiritually and materially deprived by means of education", and to that end, they converted the house into a convent and a school.
The Adelphi House School continued to operate in a variety of forms until 1977 when Comprehensive Education was introduced for all Catholic children in Salford.
It resulted in the closure of the school as it merged with the Sacred Heart School to form the new Cathedral High School.
The nuns continued to live at Adelphi and the school building was used as a part of the Cathedral High School.
Today, Adelphi House is part of the University of Salford's campus and is occupied by the team at Salford Professional Development.
Here, the team plan, design and deliver industry-leading conferences and courses to delegates from both the public and private sector
Choose from 7 different room types, ranging from intimate meeting rooms all the way up to a large conferencing space.
Choose from six different room types, ranging from intimate meeting rooms all the way up to a large conferencing space.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/about-us:
Salford Professional Development (SPD) is a subsidiary of the University of Salford, based in Greater Manchester.
We deliver in-house, virtual and bespoke accredited and non-accredited training to over 9,000 clients per year across both the public and private sectors.
SPD also host numerous conferences each year which are built upon current affairs and government policy, with a host of high-profile speakers from across several sectors.
Continuing professional development is essential for career progression, helping you learn new skills, keep up with the changing demands of the workplace and gain valuable qualifications.
SPD work with several different accrediting bodies to ensure our customers are provided with only the best quality and experience.
The benefits of continued professional development include:
We can drive down your training costs and streamline your upskilling requirements by providing a range of bespoke training options to suit your budget and needs.
Our In-House training team will work with your organisation to develop and deliver the training that is right for you.
Call us on 0161 295 3000 or email enquiries@salford-spd.co.uk to arrange a free consultation.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/spd-membership:
Registering for the SPD Newsletter is simple and completely free.
Register your details and take advantage of our discounted rates and exclusive benefits, such as a 10% discount off future bookings.**
Our unique offering is designed to deliver an unrivalled offering to our customers, rewarding loyalty, sharing knowledge and creating a professional network all in one place.
**10% discount applies to selected training courses and events
Every now and then, we'd like to send you information that promotes our products and knowledge of our network that is relevant to you.
Submitting your details tells us that you're ok with this and you also agree to our privacy and cookie policy.
You can, of course opt out of these communications at any time.
Benefit from discounted rates on a range of our events recommended just for you.
You will also receive priority booking on our most popular events, ensuring that you never miss out.
We believe in rewarding loyalty, and you will receive complimentary guest tickets to attend tailored events, relevant to your industry.
Access to content, reports, case studies and interviews will ensure that you are kept up to date with the latest research and industry best practices, utilising the unrivalled knowledge of both academics and leading industry experts.
Receive exclusive invitations to free networking events, including industry briefings and round table discussions.
Discuss and debate developments in your industry, gaining new insights through networking with fellow professionals.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/blogs-case-studies:
CPD stands for Continuing Professional Development, which is about keeping your skills, knowledge and experience up-to-date in order to…
Discover expert-backed AI tips for senior leaders.
Learn how to apply AI strategically in business with practical insights from our AI…
Struggling to maintain a healthy work-life balance?
Learn how to prevent burnout, set healthy boundaries and build a fulfilling routine…
Discover the key differences between clinical governance and risk management in healthcare.
Learn how the seven pillars of clinical…
Discover how to advance your career with tailored accreditation options from Salford Professional Development.
This blog explains the…

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/careers:
Salford Professional Development is a wholly owned subsidiary of the University of Salford that provide first class training courses and conferences to professionals across the UK and beyond.
We are always actively looking for talented individuals who excel in what they do.
If you have a passion for service and going the extra mile, why not enquire about one of our current vacancies?
Company benefits include:
Recruitment Agencies: Please do not submit CVs to us or any of our employees.
The company will not be bound by your terms should you ignore this request.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/courses/advanced-leadership-directors:
The Advanced Leadership for Directors programme is an intensive, two-day course designed to elevate the leadership capabilities of senior executives and directors.
Participants will explore the critical distinctions between leadership and management, learning how to strategically align these roles to enhance organisational performance.
The course covers adaptive leadership principles, emotional intelligence, and high-performance team dynamics, providing practical tools to navigate the complexities of today’s business environment.
Through interactive workshops and real-world case studies, participants will develop strategies for effective decision-making, managing power and influence, and leading successful change initiatives.
This programme offers a unique opportunity to deepen your leadership impact, foster a growth mindset, and connect with like-minded professionals.
Eligible participants can either choose to attend this course as a stand-alone programme, or alternatively complete the Certified Directors Programme which comprises of four courses and an accreditation, in order to obtain a CMI Level 8 Certificate in Strategic Direction and Leadership.
Practical Application: Engage in interactive workshops and case studies that provide hands-on experience in applying leadership theories to real-world scenarios.
Enhanced Leadership Impact: Equip yourself with advanced tools and strategies to lead your organisation through complex challenges and dynamic environments.
Networking Opportunities: Connect with fellow directors and industry leaders, expanding your professional network and gaining diverse perspectives on leadership.
Personal Growth: Strengthen your emotional intelligence and develop a growth mindset, empowering you to lead with empathy and resilience.
Long-Term Success: Leave with actionable insights and strategies that can be immediately implemented to drive sustainable success in your organisation.
This course is designed for CEO’s, Directors and Global Leaders who have the responsibility for developing and implementing effective, ethical and collective strategies across their organisation.
Learners should be either operating in a global/multinational organisation and have the ability to explore the complexity and challenges of global operations or strategically look beyond the confines of their own organisation and apply critical thinking and analysis to the complexity of their organisational operations and supply chain.
In order to be accepted onto the course participants must have a minimum of 2 years’ experience in a director level role and have had responsibility for developing and implementing strategy.
Leadership in Context
Understand the differences between leadership and management, and how both roles work together to drive organisational success
Explore the major disruptions and challenges that are currently affecting leadership practices
Learn how strategic leadership can adapt to meet these emerging challenges
Problem Classification
Gain an understanding of Adaptive Leadership principles and why they are crucial for directors
Learn about Keith Grint’s Problem Classification Model and how it applies to leadership
Examine various leadership styles and assess their effectiveness in different situations
Adaptive Leadership
Balcony and Dancefloor Perspective: Reflect on where leaders spend their time and how it influences their effectiveness.
Deep Dive into Adaptive Leadership framework to gain a comprehensive understanding
Learn how to apply the Adaptive Leadership framework to a real-world change initiative within your organisation
Engage in a hands-on session where you’ll analyse specific challenges faced by directors and develop adaptive strategies to overcome them
Emotional Intelligence
Learn about the Emotional Intelligence (EI) framework and why EI is crucial for effective leadership
Evaluate your understanding and ability to apply the EI framework in leadership scenarios
Discover practical techniques for enhancing your emotional intelligence in a leadership context
Cultivating a Growth Mindset: Explore ways to foster a growth mindset within your leadership team
Develop strategies to identify and leverage both individual and team strengths to boost overall performance
Leading with power and influence
Identify and analyse power structures within your organisation
Examine real-world examples to see power in action and its impact
Discover strategies and tactics to maximise your influence within the organisation
Leading teams for high performance
Understand the key characteristics of high-performing teams and learn how to develop them
Explore how leaders can cultivate and sustain a high-performing team
Assess your current team’s performance against a high-performance model
Decisions and Networks
Learn how to create and leverage effective professional networks
Identify common cognitive biases that hinder decision-making and learn strategies to mitigate them
Explore tools and techniques that improve the quality of decision-making
Processes and strategies for leading change
Learn structured approaches for managing organisational change
Understand models that help overcome resistance to change
Develop skills to create and communicate a compelling vision that drives change
Apply change management strategies through case studies and practical exercises
Anne has over 25 years’ experience in Organisational Design, change management, Leadership and HR along with Non-Executive Director board experience.
Having worked in association with a world-leading business school, it is this combination of academic knowledge and practical experience that enables her to make a difference to the people and organisations she works with.
Anne specialises in developing the capability of leaders and demonstrates this with each organisation she works with, she is a successful leader of change and is a passionate believer in setting people up to succeed.
Anne has worked on change projects in a variety of settings from unionised environments to financial services, including her long spanning career at The Royal Mail as HR Director and Group Learning and Development Director where she worked directly with the CEO on multiple change projects.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/courses/ilm-level-5-certificate-in-leadership-and-management:
The ILM Level 5 Certification in Leadership and Management is designed for practising middle managers, project managers and department heads, helping them to develop their skills and experience, improve performance and prepare for senior management responsibilities.
The qualification covers core areas of management and leadership including being an effective leader, managing and implementing change and developing and leading teams.
Over the three classroom days you will develop your own ability and confidence to thrive as an effective leader within your organisation, developing skills to manage change within your team and wider organisation, enhancing your own ability to lead teams to collectively achieve organisational goals.
The approach:
A combination of activities, personal reflective questionnaires and the application of knowledge into skills encourages personal development and leadership in a safe environment.
Benefits for Organisations:
Learning Outcomes for individuals:
The Assessment and Accreditation process follows the completion of the three classroom modules and will focus on the practical assessment of the core competencies.
Assessment is via three practical work-based assignments which ensure minimal time away from work and that you undertake work study which is relevant to your own organisation.
The three modules are written assignments which include:
On-campus Training
Salford Professional Development training facilities is located in Greater Manchester, just outside the city centre on The University of Salford campus at Adelphi House.
If you prefer face-to-face learning methods, receive personal one-to-one support from expert tutors and enjoy networking with like-minded professionals, our on-campus training cohorts may be the best option for you.
Online Classroom
This programme offers virtual classroom learning dates to best suit those who have busy work/life schedule, are located outside of the United Kingdom or outside of the Northwest of the UK area and prefer online learning methods and networking.
In-House and Tailored Training
Our in-house and bespoke training options are perfect for organisations who are looking to upskill a group of professionals and prefer to have the training delivered on site from their location.
We also offer the option to tailor course content to match the groups real life experiences they will face in their role and industry.
This accredited Institute of Leadership and Management Level 5 Diploma in Coaching and…
SPD have developed two brand new programmes, designed to support leaders and managers…
£2100 + VAT
The Board Dynamics and Corporate Governance programme is an intensive, two-day course…
Our CMI Level 7 Certificate in Management and Leadership programme has been designed to…
The CMI Level 7 Certificate in Professional Consulting offers a comprehensive and…
£2195 + VAT
This EDI training programme, accredited by the Charted Management Institute, is designed…
£2155 + VAT
This Level 7 Certificate in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training programme…
£2395 + VAT
Designed for mid-level and aspiring mid-level public sector leaders and managers this…
£2350 + VAT
In today's demanding business landscape, professionals often experience significant stress…
£1150 + VAT

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/courses/ilm-level-5-diploma-in-leadership-and-management:
The ILM Level 5 Diploma in Leadership and Management is designed for practising middle managers, project managers and department heads, helping them to develop their skills and experience, improve performance and prepare for senior management responsibilities.
Combining these ideas into a robust Personal Development Plan which can inform the writing of assignments to meet the performance criteria will develop confidence in leadership and in the completion of the qualification requirements.
The ILM Level 5 Diploma in Leadership and Management provides flexibility in unit choice, which allows the qualification to be tailored to meet the needs of the individual and employer.
Each unit in this qualification focuses on a specific set of skills and knowledge, in six broad areas:
The Assessment and Accreditation process follows the completion of the five classroom modules and will focus on the practical assessment of the core competencies.
Assessment is via four practical work-based assignments which ensure minimal time away from work and that you undertake work study which is relevant to your own organisation.
The two mandatory assessments for the diploma include evaluating your own leadership and implementing a PDP plan, along with improving your leadership through action learning.
Delegates will then select two more assessments to complete from a choice of five, in order to achieve the Diploma.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/courses/mini-mba-in-digital-transformation:
Our Mini MBA in Digital Transformation is a five-day immersive experience that will guide you through the evolving world of digital transformation and innovation, with a special emphasis on the role of Artificial Intelligence’, data and emerging technologies in shaping the future of business.
You’ll explore, understand, and engage with the latest digital trends and technologies, while learning how to harness and fuel innovation and growth.
Throughout the course, you will not only identify where your business currently stands within the digital ecosystem, but you will also gain the tools to map out your own digital innovation journey.
Our expert tutors will equip you with practical knowledge, cultural awareness, leadership skills, and digital technology to craft a future-forward strategy that aligns with your business goals.
With real-world case studies and industry insights, you'll learn how to cultivate an agile, digitally enabled workforce, ready to embrace change and lead innovation.
The course is highly interactive, encouraging peer collaboration and shared learning.
By the end of the five days, you’ll have developed a tangible digital strategy that outlines a clear path for continuous innovation, along with being equipped with the leadership skills, cultural understanding, and practical tools to drive your business forward in the digital era.
This course is being delivered in collaboration with the Greater Manchester Institute of Technology (GMIoT).
The GMIoT are a regional network of education providers and leading industry employers, working in partnership to deliver world-class technical education and training, of which the University of Salford is a partner.
The Mini MBA in Digital Transformation will increase your understanding of how digital transformation can help identify new markets, bring increased competitiveness and improve the customer experience while reducing costs.
The programme is specifically designed to provide face-to-face teaching in a thought-provoking environment that encourages interaction, is heavily solution-oriented and gives an opportunity to fast-track through learning by using practical, real-life examples and case studies to ensure your invested time and money will return the best possible insights and take-away messages.
The Mini MBA in Digital Transformation course features a perfectly balanced agenda, delivered by trainers from both academic and business backgrounds, in collaboration with relevant industry speakers reinforcing the themes of the course.
The course will lead you through the digital transformation process by a detailed exploration of current top-trend topics such as data analysis and technology tools, but also human factors such as change management and leadership qualities.
By the end of the Mini MBA in Digital Transformation, you will:
Deepen your understanding of Digital Transformation : You will learn how digital technologies can identify new markets, enhance competitiveness, improve customer experience, and reduce operational costs.
This knowledge will help you leverage digital opportunities to drive growth in your organisation.
Develop an agile, digitally enabled workforce : With practical industry insights, you will understand how to cultivate a flexible and innovative workforce capable of adapting to the ever-evolving digital landscape, including the responsible and ethical use of Generative AI in the organisation.
You will also gain strategies to foster a culture of innovation, essential for long-term success.
Create your own digital transformation strategy : Through case studies, collaborative learning, and interactive discussions, you will work on developing a tailored digital transformation roadmap for your business.
By the end of the course, you will have a clear, actionable strategy that outlines your business's innovation journey.
Gain practical insights from industry experts: You will have the opportunity to hear from guest speakers who have led or consulted on successful digital transformation initiatives.
Their firsthand experiences will provide you with real-world lessons on how to navigate and manage complex transformation projects.
Peer to Peer Learning: Sharing ideas and best practice between others in the cohort is valuable and essential to the successful design and implementation of your Digital Transformation Strategy.
Comprehensive Approach : Ensure you leave the programme equipped with the skills, insights, and strategies needed to lead digital innovation within your own organisation.
Tutor: John Palfreyman
On this day you will begin to map out your digital innovation journey - where are you now and where do you want to be?
The day introduces key concepts, technologies and tools for reflecting on your business's current situation in relation to competitors, how to change and what to aim for.
Through structured sessions, facilitated discussions and workshops you will:
Tutor: Dawn Holmes
On this day you will learn the importance of data in finding new customers and markets.
We look at the importance of people with change agent roles in the business, techniques for creating new products or services and ways of changing markets and using data for evidence-based decision making.
Through structured sessions, individual and group tasks you will:
On this day our tutor will unveil the power of technology that will help drive transformation and innovation in your business.
Through facilitated discussions and workshops, you will:
Tutor: Joanne Clare
With the tools to bring change to an organisation, we consider the people and the skills that are needed.
This day examines the focal points for change within the organisation, the types of leadership and control required to enable this change, and the attributes required for new roles.
Tutor: Peter Bulkley
On this final day, we bring together all the learning to consider existing business models for innovative products and services and then develop some individual innovative business modelling - drawing in the ideas and concepts of the course to consider the 'as is' situation for our own organisations and the future possibilities.
John is Associate Professor of Digital Strategy at the University of Leeds.
He also runs his own consultancy, acting as board advisor to a range of organisations.
John’s full-time career with IBM - which concluded in mid-2017 – was a mixture of leveraging digital technologies into government and public sector organisations around the world with the commercial exploitation of emerging technologies for business benefit, across all industries and geographies.
Before IBM, John enjoyed a number of business leadership roles in professional information technology services in the UK and Germany.
John’s current interests include the application of blockchain technologies for business benefit, strategic agility, digital transformation and the cultural enablers of organisational transformation.
John is passionate about the appropriate application of technology to drive long-term competitive advantage in the context of a long-term strategic plan.
Jo Clare is a Leadership Development Consultant and Executive Coach, specialising in supporting organisations, teams and individuals to lead in times of transformation and change.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and an accredited Executive Coach (ILM L7 Diploma), Jo has over 20 years of experience in senior and strategic Organisational Development, Change Management and HR engagements, within a complex and highly regulated multi-national organisation that was embedding significant digital transformation.
Recent consultancy work has focused on developing authentic, strengths-based leadership approaches to support delivering change and transformation through culture and engagement within the University sector, Aviation and Tourism sector, the NHS and the Motor industry.
Jo is passionate about developing people and teams to identify, implement and deliver transformational change effectively.
She champions engaging people to make a positive difference to organisational culture through aligned people, business and digital strategies.
Dr Dawn Holmes (DBA, MBA, BEng, FHEA, FCIM, Chartered Marketer) is an academic and practitioner in the field of Marketing.
She is a Vising Fellow at Alliance Manchester Business School (AMBS) where she delivers marketing and management courses on Global MBA and executive education programmes.
She also delivers on Executive Education programmes for Salford University Professional Development.
She received her Doctorate in Business Administration from AMBS in 2022.
Her passion lies in business relationships, focusing on understanding customers and enabling the creation of customer value by harnessing big data and digital tools, particularly in Business to Business contexts.
With senior management roles covering Marketing Management, Insight Development & Deployment, Corporate Planning, and Business Intelligence, Dawn brings a broad range of experience to her teaching.
She has a DBA and MBA from Alliance Manchester Business School and an honours degree in Mechanical Engineering from Staffordshire University.
Since moving into her academic career, she has also become a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Peter is a Mechanical Engineer by training and is an experienced business leader with a strong commercial bias, having worked across differing ownership structures, including PE backed, family owned and global corporate businesses.
Peter has a track record in driving performance through successfully leading growth strategies in manufacturing and engineering businesses, with considerable channel knowledge across global emerging and developed markets.
Along with experience in building collaborative teams to deliver growth and transferable expertise and skills across multiple sectors.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/courses/mini-mba-in-business-leadership:
The Mini MBA in Business Leadership programme is ideal for executives looking to expand their business knowledge.
It offers a challenging and rewarding experience to succeed in their career through business strategy tools and management practices.
It will cover theories taught in leading postgraduate courses, by highly experienced tutors.
The course prepares you to handle new scenarios as a manager while developing professional performance, confidence and decision-making abilities.
This programme will help you take your career to the next level, giving you maximum impact with minimum time away from the workplace.
The Mini MBA programme has been developed with Salford Business School (SBS) to meet the demands of today’s current and aspiring global business leaders.
It will give professionals a strong understanding of the core business principles and the skills required to be successful in business and beyond.
Blending academic principles and practical insights to provide a deep insight into the professional environment and specifically to engender the key skills that employers look for in their senior management.
How will I benefit?
Executives and Managers of all levels often use this programme as a springboard since it focuses on the key four pillars of today's business; strategy, marketing, finance and human resources.
It has been designed to foster a broad range of business skills that are in high demand across all areas of industry.
Delegates will be equipped with the knowledge, skills and tools to operate effectively in today’s rapidly changing global business environment.
Why choose the Mini MBA?
The Mini MBA in Business Leadership programme is highly participative, focusing on real business and industry issues.
The programme is designed to give you a critical understanding of the key competency areas required for success within a business – enabling you to make more informed and commercially viable strategic decisions.
Through business simulation techniques, you’ll maximise competency development and ensure any ideas on strategic implementation can be tested and appraised.
Learning Outcomes:
Participants typically have at least four or more years of work experience and tend to be mid to upper-level managers (with or without direct reports), coming from every discipline, size and type of organisation, including private companies, not-for-profits and government services.
Note that participants will be joined in groups with peers with different expertise to maximise learning exchanges.
Mini MBA is open to all levels of experience and will include participants with a diverse range of professional backgrounds including engineering, project management, human resources, operations, sales and many more.
A Bachelor or Masters degree is not a prerequisite for enrolment, and some find this programme an excellent refresher course for a degree past 7 years.
As the programme is run over an intensive 5 days, whilst homework may be required during the period it is taking place, there will be no subsequent requirements that will eat into your valuable time.
The emphasis is on helping you reach your peak of excellence and accelerating your career goals, which is why even Masters graduates take the programme to refresh their knowledge base and specialised managers take it to broaden their expertise.
Executives use the programme to develop strategic management skills and network with exceptional peers from a variety of industries.
Programmes can often fill up a couple of months in advance, so we strongly advise you to register early.
Payment must also be completed before you attend, with joining instructions sent about 2 weeks in advance of the start date.
Only then is your position secured on the programme.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/courses/cmi-level-5-certificate-business-leadership-primary-care-leadership:
Managing a busy Primary Care setting requires exceptional multitasking skills and the ability to navigate a variety of challenges across leadership, ethics, finance, and operations.
The CMI Level 5 Certificate Business Leadership for Primary Care is specifically designed to provide leaders in any Primary Care setting with the tools, techniques, and frameworks needed to excel in this demanding role.
This highly interactive programme integrates coaching principles and reflective practice to ensure participants can effectively translate their learning into actionable improvements.
Each day builds on prior modules, encouraging delegates to reflect on their unique organisational context and deepen their understanding of key concepts.
Participants will engage in hands-on exercises, discussions, and practical applications to explore leadership dynamics, ethical decision-making, financial management, continuous improvement, and organisational complexity.
By addressing real-world challenges, the programme equips delegates with pragmatic solutions tailored to the dynamic environment of Primary Care.
With opportunities to explore topics like compassionate leadership, ethical governance, Lean principles, and enterprise thinking, this programme fosters the development of innovative and resilient practice managers.
By the end of the course, participants will leave with a comprehensive action plan, enhanced self-awareness, and strategies to drive meaningful improvements within their organisations.
Introduction to Leadership in Primary Care
Exploration of Leadership Theories and Models
Navigating Complexity in Practice Structures
Introduction to Coaching-Based Leadership
Practical Application and Skill Development
Introduction to Ethical Leadership in primary care
Exploration of Ethical Frameworks and Guidance
Ethical Decision-Making Models
Organisational Factors Influencing Ethics
Interplay Between Culture, Ethics, and Trust
Data and Communication in Governance
Coaching and Conflict Resolution
Understanding Organisational Funding and Challenges
Principles of Financial Management
Exploring Practice Income Streams
Role of Internal Control Systems
Effective Business Planning
Reflection and Action Planning
Introduction to Continuous Improvement Principles
Journey Mapping for Organisational Insight
Lean Principles and Efficiency
Building the Process-Analysis Toolkit
Role of Data in Organisational Improvement
Coaching for an Improvement Mindset
Improvement Case Studies and Action Planning
Discussion of Inter-Module Task
Exploration of Systems Thinking Principles
Organisational Ecosystem Analysis
Understanding Enterprise in Primary Care
Organisational Action Planning Exercise
Personal Reflection and Development Log
Programme Wrap-Up
Accreditation: This programme has been mapped to a CMI Level 5 qualification in Management and Leadership.
Assessment is via two practical work-based assignments which ensure minimal time away from work.
This ensures you undertake study which is relevant and beneficial to your own practice.
You can achieve between 13 and 17 credits depending on which two assignments you choose to complete.
Richard is a GP in Burnley, having joined an established Practice in 2009.
Prior to that he has spent time working in international health systems, both as a practicing doctor and involved with health care logistics and large-scale health-care developments in challenging environments.
He has been involved in a commissioning capacity since 2009, firstly with East Lancashire PCT and subsequently he became a Clinical Lead for East Lancashire CCG at its inception.
He has worked to develop improved integrated working practices between social care, hospital care and community health care and led service transformation in the Intermediate Care setting
He strongly believes in providing needs-based care and empowering everyone involved in care delivery to participate in the design, development and continuous improvement of systems of care.
He is passionate about supporting a universal, comprehensive, equitable National Health Service that works alongside its many partners to deliver high quality, patient-centred care.
Michelle is a highly qualified trainer and teaching professional with extensive experience of providing accredited training, psychological interventions and wellbeing services to individuals, groups & organisations, with extensive experience within the field of leadership and management and executive coaching.
Her experience includes over 10 years within the primary care NHS teams, providing low-intensity psychological therapies to groups and individuals and supporting the service in development, quality of provision and multi-agency working.
She has also worked within high security hospitals and prisons.
Michelle has previously led on a University-based course for Health Education England, training NHS therapists.
During this time, she completed her PGCert in higher education, developing further knowledge and skills in learning theory and effective teaching methods.
With over twenty years of experience delivering business and service improvement methodology Mark creates an engaging environment for hands on learning and development using proven methods of continuous improvement.
Focussing specifically on value creation for the customer, both internal and external, Mark introduces an array of tools to work with on real time problem solving and workplace efficiency whilst using case studies from the Swedish National Health Care system (Lund University) to demonstrate real time service improvements and, as an inspiration to classroom growth.
As an international trainer and having supported global blue-chip companies worldwide he has a passion for developing operational excellence throughout the business creating more efficient ways of working as well as improved workplace morale.
Stephen is a highly accomplished ICAEW qualified finance professional with a versatile background spanning over three decades.
With experience across various industry sectors, Stephen has held pivotal full-time positions such as Commercial Finance Director and Controller.
For the past 18 years, he has been a trusted consultant to many SME businesses, providing invaluable financial insights and strategic guidance.
In addition to his consulting work, Stephen has dedicated 15 years to financial training, sharing his extensive knowledge and expertise with aspiring finance professionals.
As an Executive Coach and Mentor for over a decade, he has empowered individuals to achieve their professional goals.
This programme has been mapped to a CMI Level 5 qualification in Management and Leadership.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/conferences/operating-theatres-conference-2026:
Join us at the 11th Annual Operating Theatres Conference, where we will explore the latest innovations and strategies in surgical care amidst the expansion of operating theatres across the country, including the new “surgical hubs” .
As the NHS strives to meet its world leading net-zero targets, our conference will spotlight the transformative changes being implemented to balance this growth with sustainability.
Chaired by Nigel Roberts, Deputy Assistant Divisional Director of Nursing for Theatres, Critical Care & Anaesthetics, the event will feature expert speakers from across the sector.
Discover how effective communication and collaborative practices can elevate both efficiency and patient care.
Don’t miss this opportunity to gain critical insights and contribute to the future of surgical care in the UK.
*** We don’t accept delegate registrations from suppliers.
Please click here for sponsorship details.
***
Registration, Refreshments, Exhibition and Networking
Opening Remarks from the Chair
Keynote Session: Improving Operating Theatre Efficiency to tackle the NHS backlog -
Speaker Session: Civility and is Impact on Safety
Case Study: Voice-Guided Digital Transformation Workflows for Operating Theatres - Delivered by Voice-Care International Ltd
Philip Jarrett , Executive Director and Founder, Voice-Care International Ltd
Dr Sadie Syed , Consultant Anaesthetist, Imperial College Healthcare Trust
Refreshments, Exhibition and Networking
Case Study: The NHS HIT List and the Day Case Arthroplasty
Planning for Major Trauma
Movement to seminars
Seminar A:
ConMed
The Presentation will be Patient Positioning and Pressure Care in the Operating Theatre
Looking at the different positions that the patient in placed in during procedures and the emphasis will be on safe positioning and the prevention of pressure ulcers.
Teasdale
Lunch, exhibition and networking
Afternoon Keynote: Communication and working together to overcome challenges and improve patient outcomes.
Panel Discussion: Green Theatre Initiatives - The Journey to Net Zero
Refreshments, exhibition and networking
Session title: How 3D Surgical Planning and simulation can reduce a patient’s time in theatre
Session title: Sepsis, severe infection and AMR: Tackling the threat together."
Closing Remarks from the Chair
Close of Conference
Operating Theatre Technicians, Surgeons, Operating Theatre Practitioners, Anaesthetists, Theatre Team Leaders, Theatre Managers, Theatre Directors, Surgical Care Practitioners, Surgical Assistants, First Assistant to the Surgeons, Healthcare Assistants, Theatre Support Workers, Assistant Practitioners, Hospital Operating Theatre Porters, Healthcare Assistants, Commissioning Heads, Heads of NHS, Directors of Public Health, Heads of Public Engagement, Directors of Commissioning, Heads of National/Regional Public Health Groups, Heads of Treatment and Prevention , Directors of Strategic Development.
Click here to view our sponsorship packages.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/conferences/excellence-in-education-conference:
Children typically spend between 13,000 and 22,000 hours in school throughout their lifetime (depending on their post 16 studies).
Finding the right school, the best rating, the best afterschool clubs, the best exam results.
All pay a huge part in this decision.
But what truly makes a school “Excellent”?
Salford Professional Development are excited to be launching our Excellence in Education conference.
A first of its kind where we will bring together Experts who can help you achieve that all important “Excellent” whilst sharing best practice to ensure your setting is making every hour count.
Sign up for the latest updates here.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/conferences/send-conference-2026:
Thank you for joining us at The SEND Conference.
Salford Professional Development was proud to host this important event, which brought together sector leaders, professionals and parents to reflect on the current system and explore meaningful changes that can positively impact the young people at the heart of this discussion.
With the number of young people assessed as having SEND continuing to rise—now reaching approximately 1.6 million school pupils in England—this conference provided timely insights, expert presentations and valuable networking opportunities to help build and sustain thriving SEND provision.
The event has now concluded, but we’re excited to announce that The SEND Conference will return next year 18th June 2026.
Sign up to our newsletter for further updates and details.
Extended Keynote Session: How We Got to Here: The Origins of 150 Years of Assembly-Line Factory Education
Smartbox Assistive Technology
Session Title: Working Towards a Communication-Friendly School
Session Title: Inclusive Leadership
Session Title: Becoming a Trauma Informed School
Session Title: A Parent's Story
Session Title: Communication Gaps and the Importance of Sign Language
Lunch, Exhibition and Networking
Afternoon Keynote: Alternative Provision
What’s the alternative: Applying a high quality, innovative, ambitious alternative provision to meet the needs of our most vulnerable students
Panel Discussion: Tackling Challenging Behaviour
Session Title: The Benefits of Emotional Wellbeing for Children and Adults
Discover how emotional wellbeing shapes the future of children and supports the resilience of adults.
This talk explores:
Session Title: Transitions
Director of Pedagogy and Professional Development, Educational Author, Educational Consultant, Director of Professional Development
Headteacher, Deputy heads, Careers advisors, Safeguarding officers, Teachers, Equalities Officers, Learning Mentors, Online tutors, Teaching Assistants, Youth Workers.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/sepsis-conference-2025:
Salford Professional Development’s Sepsis Conference took place on 31st July, 2025, bringing together leading experts, survivors and advocates to raise awareness, share research and drive improvements in the recognition and treatment of sepsis.
The event was hosted at Adelphi House at University of Salford, providing the best setting for a day of insightful talks, heartfelt stories and collaborative discussions.
The conference opened with remarks from Chair Irrum Afzal, Digital Health Transformation at HCA UK, Vice Chair for Research and Innovation at NOA, AI in Healthcare researcher, who set the tone for a day dedicated to tackling one of the most urgent and life-threatening medical conditions.
The morning began with an extended keynote from Ron Daniels, Founder and Joint Chief Executive Officer of the UK Sepsis Trust.
Ron highlighted the indiscriminate nature of sepsis, a condition that can affect anyone from the very young to the otherwise healthy, and the critical importance of early recognition.
His keynote highlighted the UK Sepsis Trust’s mission to empower both healthcare professionals and the public to ask the vital question: Could it be sepsis?
Delegates then heard from event sponsor B Braun Ltd, where Sam Hodgson, Ready-to-Use Product Manager, explored “Driving efficiency and releasing time to care: The case for ready-to-use medicines”.
His session covered an introduction to B Braun Medical, the value of ready-to-use products, and their applications for sepsis.
This was followed by refreshments and networking.
The late morning sessions included a moving personal testimony from Aaron Speer, UK House of Lords Private Secretary to the HR Director, who shared his journey as a sepsis survivor and explored the question, What does life after sepsis look like?
This was followed by Claire Burnett, Sepsis Lead Nurse at Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust, who delivered a practical session on improving sepsis awareness, practice and patient management.
A thought-provoking panel discussion titled How do you know it is sepsis?
brought together Claire Burnett, Aaron Speer, Dr Nveed Chaudary and Professor Paul Dark, giving delegates a multi-perspective view of diagnosis challenges and examples of best practice.
Following lunch and further networking, the afternoon keynote was delivered by Dr Nveed Chaudary, Chairperson of the JCSR Foundation.
In his deeply personal session, In Honour of Jibraan: Turning Tragedy into a Mission for Sepsis Innovation , Dr Chaudary shared his late son’s story and discussed the urgent need for faster identification of sepsis in cancer patients, the role of antibiotics and the link between blood cancer and sepsis.
The final session of the day was led by Professor Paul Dark, Vice Dean for Health and Care Partnerships at the Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health at The University of Manchester.
His presentation on the ADAPT Sepsis UK multi-centre clinical trial explored biomarker-guided antibiotic treatment, outlining the trial’s aims, results and potential to transform patient care.
Chair Irrum Afzal closed the conference with thanks to all speakers, delegates, sponsors and the dedicated SPD team who made the event possible.
The day offered numerous opportunities for networking, knowledge exchange and professional collaboration.
With the passion and expertise shared in each session, the Sepsis Conference proved to be an important platform for driving change in the fight against sepsis.
Salford Professional Development looks forward to welcoming delegates again at the next Sepsis Conference.
Keep an eye out for announcements and registration details to secure your place.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/send-conference-2025:
Salford Professional Development's SEND Conference took place on Thursday, June 19th, 2025, at Adelphi House.
The event was met with widespread acclaim from attendees, exhibitors, and speakers alike, with Adelphi House providing the perfect setting for the SEND Conference.
The conference was abuzz with an array of exhibitors eager to network and showcase their products to attendees.
Smart Box, one of the exhibitors, shared their enthusiasm for the event, stating, “I think a lot of the talks today show the variety of topics people are here to learn about, as well as the potential for exhibitors in different areas.
Also, I believe this is a great opportunity to network and meet other professionals in the field, because often we feel like we're fighting this battle on our own.”
Attendees were treated to insightful presentations from industry experts, including:
Andrew Hammond, Director of Pedagogy and Professional Development, Educational Author, Educational Consultant, Experienced Headteacher
Jessica MacRae, AT Specialist
Sherann Hilman MBE, National Lead for Children and Families, Head of Family Services
Vanessa Jenkins, Senior TISUK Trainer
Laura Lawtom, Parent
Lorenza Pye, Founder, Eliza Says
Stephen Steinhause, CEO, Solihull Alternative Provision Multi Academy Trust
Melanie Appleyard
Joanne Sprugeon, Representative, British Association for Supported Employment (BASE)
Topics ranged from Andrew Hammond’s exploration of the origins of 150 years of assembly-line factory education and the importance of embracing neurodiversity in schools, to Jessica MacRae’s session on working towards communication-friendly schools by embedding assistive technology to support students using AAC.
Sherann Hillman MBE discussed inclusive leadership and its role in improving outcomes for children and families, while Vanessa Jenkins shared insights on becoming a trauma-informed school to create nurturing environments for children who have experienced trauma.
Laura Lawton provided a heartfelt parent’s perspective on navigating the SEND education system and the challenges families face in securing support.
Lorenza Pye addressed communication gaps and the importance of sign language in schools, debunking myths and offering teaching strategies.
Stephen Steinhaus spoke about innovative, high-quality alternative provision as a means to meet the needs of vulnerable students, followed by a panel discussion featuring Jessica MacRae, Sherann Hillman, Lorenza Pye, Stephen Steinhaus, Vanessa Jenkins, Joanne Spurgeon, and Melanie Appleyard, focusing on tackling challenging behaviour and supporting educators.
Melanie Appleyard’s presentation highlighted the benefits of emotional wellbeing for children and adults, exploring how early emotional support fosters resilience, and Joanne Spurgeon detailed the crucial steps schools should take to support pupils through transitions out of full-time education.
The day offered numerous networking opportunities, allowing delegates from across the country to share ideas and engage with colleagues and other professionals.
The event was made possible thanks to the support of exhibitors, sponsors, speakers, delegates, and the dedicated team at SPD.
As a testament to its success, Salford Professional Development is thrilled to announce that The SEND Conference will return on June 18th, 2026.
Register now to stay updated on the latest developments and secure your spot at next year’s event!

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/do-you-need-director-level-qualification:
Directors do not only manage teams, but they must also lead with strategic vision, resilience and a deep understanding of organisational change.
This is why more senior leaders are turning to professional development and formal qualifications to sharpen their edge.
Is experience enough?
Is a high-level qualification like the CMI Level 8 Certificate in Strategic Direction and Leadership actually worth it?
Here are why director-level qualifications are growing in demand, and whether this one’s right for you.
Best Qualifications for Directors
Executive learning is no longer limited to MBAs or short workshops.
There’s a rising demand for qualifications that offer practical leadership skills, strategic thinking and real-world impact.
Senior leaders are expected to navigate change, lead digital transformation and influence diverse stakeholder groups.
To do that well, directors need a structured, research-backed approach to leadership and good intuition.
If you are preparing to lead strategy, change or transformation at a senior level, the CMI Level 8 provides a respected and recognised qualification that strengthens your leadership credibility and enhances your impact.
CMI Level 8 vs CMI Level 7
CMI Level 7 is for senior managers leading change within one organisation.
It’s hands-on, workshop-led, and focuses on applying proven frameworks to real challenges.
You pick the units that match your goals and complete one major assignment per unit—typically finishing in 3–5 months.
CMI Level 8 is for directors shaping strategy across organisations, regions or sectors.
It demands independent research, critical thinking and two substantial written projects based on live strategic issues.
It’s intellectually rigorous—at the same level as a doctorate—but designed to be completed part-time in 4–6 months.
Choose Level 7 if you want to drive internal transformation and build toward an MBA.
Choose Level 8 if you already operate at board level and want recognition for high-level strategic leadership.
Both routes can lead to Chartered Manager status and deliver practical, respected credentials—but they serve different levels of responsibility.
Is CMI Level 8 Worth It To Me?
The CMI Level 8 in Strategic Direction and Leadership is the most advanced qualification offered by the Chartered Management Institute, designed for senior executives who are responsible for defining and steering the strategic course of their organisations.
This programme is tailored for professionals who operate at or near board level, including those in roles such as Chief Executive, Managing Director, or Director, as well as individuals preparing to step into such high-level positions.
It is particularly suited to those who oversee complex organisational structures, lead cross-functional teams, and are tasked with delivering transformational change on a significant scale.
Participants in the Level 8 qualification will develop a deeper mastery of strategic thinking, organisational design and high-level leadership, with a focus on applying theoretical insight to real-world business challenges.
The curriculum encourages critical reflection on areas such as ethical leadership, stakeholder engagement, global competitiveness and corporate governance, providing a structured yet flexible framework for senior leaders to enhance their effectiveness.
Through this qualification, learners will be equipped to lead with confidence, align organisational culture with long-term strategy, and drive sustainable performance across departments, regions and industries.
The programme is highly practical in nature and rooted in real-world application, ensuring that the knowledge gained translates directly into measurable leadership impact.
Recognised across industries, the CMI Level 8 serves not only as a testament to professional expertise but also as a stepping stone toward Chartered Manager status, the most prestigious designation awarded by the CMI.
For those seeking to validate their strategic capabilities and enhance their influence at the highest levels of leadership, this qualification offers a powerful and credible route for personal and organisational advancement.
Still exploring your options?
Speak to a course advisor to find out if it's the right fit for your goals.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/freedom-information-privacy-policy:
Content
Our Commitment to Privacy
Here at Salford Professional Development (SPD) we work hard to ensure that you receive the very best experience without having to worry if your information is safe.
Outlined below is how and why we collect, use and share your personal information, and your rights in relation to that data.
We know that there’s lots of information here, but we want you to be fully informed – we hope the following sections will answer any questions you have, if not, please do get in touch with us at unsubscribe@salford-spd.co.uk
A Bit About Us
Salford Professional Development is the “Data Controller” of your personal data and is subject to the UK General Data Protection Regulation (“UK GDPR”).
We are registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”) registration number ZA092210
Why Do We Collect Your Information?
Under the UK GDPR we have to have justification (“legal basis”) for obtaining and processing your information.
Data used for marketing campaigns is leased under licence from 3rd party data providers or is sourced directly from social media platforms with opt-in consent.
Data is procured under licence from 3rd party data providers who source their data from the public domain.
SPD carry out the following checks to ensure it is complete and accurate, and that we are compliant with both GDPR and PECR.
Checks carried out are:
Only once these tests have been passed do we accept the licence for the data and from this point we then map the data into suitable marketing lists based on job title and industry, and data will only be used if it is deemed as a good fit for a specific campaign.
The basis of us processing this data is legitimate interest and the basis of marking with the data is consent and only for a business-to-business contact.
Data is checked monthly and any contacts that are no longer valid are disposed of securely from our database, except for our unsubscribe list.
When Do We Collect Data?
We collect personal data about you at various stages in your relationship with us.
We only collect and use your personal data when you specifically agree that we should do so.
Some of the information you will provide, and some we collect automatically.
The analytics we collect are to help us improve our online products and your browsing experience.
However, the data that we collect automatically is not personal data.
For example, just by browsing our site or downloading information, our system will automatically gather and store certain information about your visit.
This information does not identify you personally, and we do not link it to any personal data.
It is used to help us improve our website.
What Sort Of Data Do We Collect?
1: Information that helps identify you:
2: Sensitive personal data, including:
3: Information that helps us manage the contract such as
How Do We Use Your Information?
We will process your personal information for a range of purposes associated with your contract.
The primary purposes are:
All bookings have a privacy notice which sets out how long data will be stored as this can vary dependent on the type and nature of course attended.
How Long Do We Keep Your Data for?
Data is retained for as long as it is required to perform its purpose or for as long as is required by law (see the link below).
At the end of that retention period, your data will be disposed of securely.
Here is our Record Retention Schedule click here
Who Do We Share Your Information With?
Sometimes we share your personal data with trusted third parties, in order to meet our contractual needs or to improve our services; For example, a printer to produce name badges, auditors, organisations that you have subscribed to in order to promote your career progress (for example, professional bodies), and your employer if they have sponsored your attendance or with our parent company, the University of Salford.
Here is the policy we apply to those organisations to keep your data safe & protect your privacy:
Your Choices Regarding Your Data
If you choose to become a member of any of our online communities or to receive our email communications, it is always your choice as to whether you want to continue receiving information from us.
If you do not want us to use your personal information in this way or to contact you, please let us know by emailing us on unsubscribe@salford-spd.co.uk .
On our online portals, we offer settings to change your membership.
On the email you can click the unsubscribe link.
Updating Your Contact Details
You can let us know about any changes in your contact information at any time by emailing: unsubscribe@salford-spd.co.uk .
How can you find out what information we hold on you?
You have a right of access to your personal data held by SPD.
You are entitled to:
All the above must be returned to the requesting individual within one month and at no cost.
If you would like to exercise your right of access please submit a request by emailing unsubscribe@salford-spd.co.uk .
This Statement
From time to time we may make changes to this statement because the way in which we are processing your personal information may need to change.
Where we have a valid email address for you we will periodically email you to inform you of any substantial changes and/or to send you a link to our current privacy statement.
This statement was updated on 01 May 2024.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/terms-and-conditions:
Terms and Conditions of business for all Open Courses, Conference and Room Hire delegates
In these terms and conditions the following expressions have the following meanings:
"Event" means the training course, programme, or event/conference which you book as referred to in our booking confirmation under condition 2.
Where you book one Event but transfer to another, reference to Event will be to the one to which you transfer.
"Event Fee" is the fee for the Event which you accept when booking and, if you transfer the Event, reference to the Event Fee after that transfer will mean the total amount which you pay under condition 5(c).
“Terms” are these terms and conditions.
“Transfer Fee” is the total amount that is payable under condition 5(c).
“We/Us/Our” means Salford Professional Development Ltd.
“working day” means Monday to Friday excluding bank and public holidays in England.
Booking
Bookings for our Events must be made online or by email or telephone.
Where an organisation makes a booking for one or more employees, then: (a) our contract is with the organisation and the employees; (b) you must require each employee to observe and comply with these Terms; and (c) if any employee breaches these Terms, then it will be treated as a breach by you.
Each booking is subject to availability and is only binding if we send you confirmation by email or post that your booking is accepted.
Statutory right to cancel
Where you have booked the Event online or by email or telephone, we would remind you of your statutory right to cancel the booking within 14 days starting on the day after we send you a booking confirmation (‘cancellation period’).
To cancel you must send us a clear statement (e.g.
by letter sent by post to Adelphi House, The Crescent, Salford, M3 6EN or by email to enquiry@salford-spd.co.uk ) or you may use the cancellation form .
We advise that you contact us to confirm receipt of your cancellation by calling 0161 295 3000.
If the Event is scheduled to finish during the cancellation period, you must exercise your right to cancel before the Event finishes.
If you cancel during the cancellation period and before the Event has started, we will give you a full refund.
If you cancel during the cancellation period, but after the Event has started, we will only refund the difference between the full Event Fee and the amount we calculate to reflect the proportion of the Event (including materials) which has been delivered.
We will refund any Event Fees you have paid within 14 days after the day on which we receive notice of your decision to cancel the Event.
If you book for one Event and transfer to another, your statutory right to cancel only applies to the first Event on which you booked.
Cancellation of all Events
You may cancel the Event, and receive a full refund of the Event Fee, by giving us written notice if (a) we are in serious breach of any of our obligations to you and either (i) such breach is incapable of correction; or (ii) where such breach is capable of correction, we fail to correct it within 14 days of you requesting us in writing to do so; (b) we make any alteration to the Course which is materially adverse to you.
If you fail to give us the correct notice for your statutory right to cancel, or you give us notice of cancellation in any other circumstances, then the table below sets out the percentage of the Event Fee which is payable or, if you have already paid 100% of the Event Fee before cancelling, shows if you are owed a refund and if so, how that refund will be calculated.
If you owe us less than 100% of the Event Fee on cancellation, then the percentage you owe will be deducted from the refund we give you.
If you had transferred (without charge) to the Event you are cancelling, then no refund will be payable.
Event
Event Fee percentage payable
Cancellation of a Training Course 50% of the Event Fee for the Course where we receive your notice of cancellation more than 30 working days before the Event starts.
100% of the Event Fee where either (a) the Event has already taken place or started when we receive your notice of cancellation; or (b) we receive your notice of cancellation 30 or fewer working days before the Event starts; or (c) you fail to attend the Event.
5.
You may not transfer any Event booking if it has already taken place or started when we receive your request for a transfer, and the Event Fee you have paid for that Event will not be refunded.
In other cases, you may transfer only if the following conditions are satisfied: (a) you pay the Event Fee for the Event you are transferring from by the original due date for payment; (b) you give us notice of your request in writing (c) you pay us the additional amount (if applicable) set out in the table below (d) there is availability on the Event to which you wish to transfer; and (e) the Event to which you wish to transfer must be scheduled to take place within 90 days from the date we receive your written transfer request.
Transfers
Transfer Fee
% Of Event Fee                              Number of working days before Event start date
0                                                      30 or more
20                                                    Within 30
50                                                    Within 15
100                                                  Within 5
Once you have transferred, you cannot transfer again, and you will not be refunded the cost of your booking if you fail to attend on the date(s) to which your booking was transferred.
You may nominate an alternative person from your organisation to attend the Event, at no extra charge assuming that the substitute person is, in our opinion, eligible for the Event.
All requests for substitutions must be made to us in writing at least 14 days before the start date of the Event.
Should a substitution not be possible, cancellation charges will apply.
Payment
6.
VAT is payable on Event Fees at the prevailing rate.
You must pay each invoice we issue within 30 days starting on the date you receive it or, if there are fewer than 30 days before the start of the Event, at least 7 days before the Event starts.
In the case of an invoice for an additional fee under condition 5(c), the start date of the Event you are transferring to will be used to calculate the 7-day period.
We may charge interest at the rate of 4% above the then-current base rate of Barclays Bank PLC on the whole or any part of any invoice which remains unpaid calculated from the due date for payment until the date on which payment is made (both before and after any judgment).
(*If an Event will be delivered over more than one session/day, reference to the start of the Event is to the start of the first day/session).
7.
We may withdraw you/your delegates from the Event if you fail to pay the Event Fees in whole or in part or you do anything unlawful, malicious or discriminatory or which causes a nuisance, offence or annoyance to us, any delegate or any other person or which damages the reputation of SPD and/or the University of Salford.
No refund of Event Fees is payable where you/your delegates are withdrawn on such grounds.
8.
We reserve the right, without incurring any liability to you, to alter any or all of the content, lecturers, speakers, timing and venue for the Event for any reason beyond our control.
9.
We may cancel, suspend, or terminate the Event if any circumstances beyond our control prevent or delay its delivery (including but not limited to staff shortage) or if delegate numbers fall below a sustainable/viable level.
Apart from the return of the Event Fees you have paid where we terminate the Event, we will not have any liability to you for any loss or damage you may suffer or incur as a result of the cancellation, suspension or termination of the Event, including but not limited to any increased costs or expenses or any loss of profit, business, or contracts, or any special, indirect or consequential loss or damage.
10.
All intellectual property used or created by or for us in the design and delivery of the Event (including but not limited to methods, techniques and processes) and in Event materials are our absolute property, and you undertake and warrant that neither you nor any delegate shall copy or reproduce the whole or any part of it other than for personal study purposes, nor transfer the whole or any part of it to any person.
11.
By booking on the Event, you are deemed to accept these Terms.
These Terms constitute the whole agreement between you and us regarding the Event and all other terms are excluded.
You have not been induced to make a booking by any statement which is not set out in the booking form, these Terms or elsewhere on our website.
The booking will be governed by English law and all disputes relating to the booking will be referred exclusively to the English courts .
12.
Notices from you under these Terms must be given in writing by email or post (contact details are accessible on our website).
If any term is held to be invalid in whole or in part, then that will not affect the validity of the remaining part of such term or any of the other terms.
No variation to these terms will be effective unless agreed in writing by us.
In these Terms, words in the plural include the singular and vice versa.
13.
Views and opinions expressed by facilitators or speakers during the Event are the views and opinions of those lecturers and we will not be liable for any loss or damage arising out of your reliance on such views and opinions.
Protecting your data
14.
It is your responsibility to provide us with contact details for you/your delegates (including UK address and landline/mobile telephone numbers) and updates to those details.
15.
We will process personal data we receive from you/your delegates in accordance with all applicable Data Protection legislation and our PRIVACY POLICY which details how the personal data will be processed and the purposes for which the data is collected.
Please ensure that the information that you provide to us is true, correct and complete and that you update it by emailing us at enquiry@salford-spd.co.uk when any details change.
Our Privacy Policy covers the sharing of information about you with certain third parties where we are required to do so.
By booking on the Event you confirm we are authorised to share with you relevant information about your delegates.
Photography/filming material
16.
You must not film or record Events for any purpose unless there is a good reason and you have obtained our prior written consent (e.g.
where recording is an agreed reasonable adjustment for a disabled delegate for study purposes).
Recordings which are authorised must not be passed onto anyone else.
17.
Recordings and/or images may be taken at the Event for promotional, teaching and research purposes.
These recordings can be in print and digital formats and can be shared across all international platforms including social media; including, but not restricted to: The SPD website, LinkedIn, and Twitter.
18.
You understand that images and recordings (media), once shared over the internet, can be viewed, and stored internationally and not just in the United Kingdom and that the rights of you/delegates as an individual may not be protected to the same level, as they are in the UK.
You also understand that we may keep your images and recordings within our archives.
19.
If you or any of your delegates does not wish to be filmed, recorded or photographed for promotional, teaching and research purposes you must inform us in writing prior to the Event.
Complaints
20.
Whilst we strive to achieve the highest standards in our services, we recognise that concerns and complaints may arise from time to time.
Our complaints procedure is an opportunity for us to improve our services and we aim:
To view our full complaints procedure please click here
Download Complaints Form
In these terms and conditions the following expressions have the following meaning:
"Course" is the training course, programme, or event/conference which you book as referred to in our proposal;
"Course Fee" is the charge for the Course in our proposal which you accept when booking
“Terms” are these terms and conditions
“We/Us” means Salford Professional Development Ltd;
“You/Your” means the organisation or individual entering in to contract with Salford Professional Development via the acceptance of these terms and conditions.
Bookings for Courses must be made by email or telephone.
Where an organisation makes a booking for one or more employees, then: (a) our contract is with the organisation and the employees; (b) you must require each employee to observe and comply with these Terms, and (c) if any employee breaches these Terms then it will be treated as a breach by you.
Where you have booked the Course we would remind you of your statutory right to cancel the booking within 14 days starting on the day after we send you a booking confirmation (‘cancellation period’).
by letter sent by post to Adelphi House, The Crescent, Salford, M3 6EN or by email to enquiry@salford-spd.co.uk ).
% Of Event Fee                            Number of working days before Event start date
0                                                    30 or more
50                                                  Within 30
100                                                Within 15
Bespoke Course Development
3.1 No course development will commence within the 14-day cancellation period, unless the course is due to take place within the next 30 days, of which we will only refund the difference between the full Course Fee and the amount we calculate to reflect the proportion of the Course (including materials) that has been created and delivered.
3.2 If the Course is scheduled to be created and delivered during the 14 day cancellation period, you must exercise your right to cancel before the creation and delivery of the Course has started.
3.3 We will refund any Course Fees you have paid within 14 days after the day on which we receive notice of your decision to cancel the Course.
3.4 Any deviation from the original order form may come at an additional cost if further costs are incurred by us
Pre and Post Course Workshops and Coaching
3.4 Any pre course or post Course support included within the order form part of these Terms and Conditions
VAT is payable on Course Fees at the prevailing rate.
You must pay each invoice we issue within 30 days starting on the date you receive it or, if there are fewer than 30 days before the Course, at least 7 days before the Course starts*.
(*If the Course will be delivered over more than one session/day, reference to the start of the Course is to the start of the first day/session).
We may withdraw you/your delegates from the Course if you fail to pay the Fees in whole or in part or they do anything unlawful, malicious or discriminatory or which causes a nuisance, offence or annoyance to us, any delegate or any other person or which damages the reputation of SPD and/or the University of Salford.
No refund of Fees is payable where you/your delegates are withdrawn on such grounds.
We reserve the right, without incurring any liability to you, to alter any or all of the content, lecturers, speakers, timing and venue for the Course for any reason beyond our control.
We may cancel, suspend or terminate the Course if any circumstances beyond our control prevent or delay its delivery (including but not limited to staff shortage) or if delegate numbers fall below a sustainable/viable level.
Apart from the return of the Course Fees you have paid where we terminate the Course, we will not have any liability to you for any loss or damage you may suffer or incur as a result of the cancellation, suspension or termination of the Course, including but not limited to any increased costs or expenses or any loss of profit, business, or contracts, or any special, indirect or consequential loss or damage.
All intellectual property used or created by or for us in the design and delivery of the Course (including but not limited to methods, techniques and processes) and in Course materials are our absolute property, and you undertake and warrant that neither you nor any delegate shall copy or reproduce the whole or any part of it other than for personal study purposes, nor transfer the whole or any part of it to any person.
By booking on the Course, you are deemed to accept these Terms.
These Terms constitute the whole agreement between you and us regarding the Course and all other terms are excluded.
The booking will be governed by English law and all disputes relating to the booking will be referred exclusively to the English courts.
No variation to these Terms will be effective unless agreed in writing by us.
Views and opinions expressed by facilitators or speakers during the Course are the views and opinions of those facilitators or speakers and we will not be liable for any loss or damage arising out of your reliance on such views and opinions.
Photography, filming material and Social Media
You must not film or record the Course for any purpose unless there is a good reason and you have obtained our prior written consent (e.g.
where recording is a reasonable adjustment for study purposes).
We may arrange for photographs and/or video footage to be taken at events and used for promotional purposes.
This may include printed documents or media, editorial coverage, advertising press and use on the internet.
You also understand that we may keep images and recordings within our archives.
You understand that anyone who does not wish for their images/brand/logo to be used in this manner must notify us prior to the event.
It is your responsibility to provide us with contact details for you/your delegates (including UK address and landline/mobile telephone numbers and email addresses) and any subsequent updates to those details.
By booking the Course you confirm we are authorised to share with you relevant information about your delegates.
Terms and Conditions of business for Sponsorship and Exhibitor Sales
Introduction
1.1 The event is organised and managed by Salford Professional Development Ltd, a company registered in England and Wales with registered office at 5th Floor, Maxwell Building, University of Salford, Legal & Compliance Services, The Crescent, Salford, United Kingdom, M5 4WT.
1.2 In these terms and conditions, “organisers/we/us/our” means “Salford Professional Development Ltd” “exhibitor/you/your” means any person, company or organisation, and the staff or agents of that company taking display space; “event” means the Salford Professional Development Event, “event fee” the amount of sponsorship you have agreed to pay or the fee we have agreed to charge you for exhibiting at the venue; “Terms” means these terms and conditions; “venue” means the place at which the event will take place which will vary according to the event type.
1.3 You acknowledge and accept that we have the right to publicly announce our business relationship with you which shall include but not be limited to announcements on social media.
Such announcements shall not be disparaging or otherwise adverse to your organisation.
2.1 Each request for a sponsorship or exhibition package is only binding if we send you confirmation by email or post that your request is accepted.
2.2 If we agree to hold a provisional space booking; we reserve the right to sell that space to another exhibitor should you be unable to confirm your booking on request.
2.3 By submitting a request to be sponsor or to exhibit at the venue, you accept these Terms (which shall apply to the exclusion of any terms that you seek to impose) and also agree to be bound by the following which will be made available to you before the event or at the venue:
3 Exhibition Floor Plan
3.1 We reserve the right to alter the layout of the exhibition and display spaces at any time and in any respect.
3.2 Display space will be allocated to exhibitors by the organiser.
Requests for location will be considered where possible but cannot be guaranteed.
3.3 Exhibition displays must always stay within the allocated floor space.
4 Health & Safety
4.1 It is the responsibility of the exhibitor to ensure that their staff and any supplier/contractor working on their behalf, are familiar with and abide by all applicable health and safety laws and best practice.
The exhibitor is responsible for the health and safety of their stand during installation, use and dismantling.
This includes the provision of Risk Assessments, Method Statements and copies of public liability insurance where applicable, copies of which must be provided to the organiser [at least 7 days] before the event.
4.2 In order to create and always maintain a safe environment, all exhibitors and contractors must abide by all reasonable instructions from the organiser and the venue respectively.
5 Security/insurance/liability
5.1 Each exhibitor is responsible for the security and insurance of their own display and its contents.
The organiser accepts no responsibility for loss of or damage to any property of the exhibitor other than that which may be caused as a direct result of any negligent or fraudulent act or omission of, or any breach of statutory duty by, the organiser.
Any damage or loss which is caused by the exhibitor, or any of its employees, agents or contractors, to the venue building or contents is the full responsibility of the exhibitor and the exhibitor shall indemnify and keep indemnified the organiser from and against all reasonable actions, claims, demands, costs, losses, charges, damages and expenses incurred by organiser which arise by reason of accident or injury to any persons or damage or loss of any property where such accident, injury, damage or loss results from any act or omission of the exhibitor in connection with the event.
6 Set-up and dismantling
6.1 Each delivery to the venue prior to or on the day of the event must be arranged with the organiser prior to actual delivery.
6.2 Exhibitors must not fix any signage, posters or other items to any wall, glazing or similar.
6.2 No items may be removed or display dismantling commenced before the official closing time of the exhibition.
6.2 Any exhibitor failing to vacate the venue and remove their stand and all other items by the prescribed times notified to the exhibitor will be held liable to pay any penalties that may be imposed by the venue.
No responsibility is accepted for any items which are left behind.
6.5 The exhibitor may only bring electrical equipment into the venue if it has passed applicable portable appliance testing and certification of such testing is provided to the organiser.
7 Staff identification
7.1 All exhibitor staff must wear at all times during the event the identification badges issued by the organiser.
Additional staff will be permitted upon payment of the relevant registration fees.
8 Stand fittings
8.1 All materials and stand fittings must be non-flammable or impregnated with a fire-proofing solution in a way that complies with all current safety requirements.
9 Damage
9.1 The exhibitor shall not cause any damage to the venue or contents and shall make good any such damage at its own expense.
10 Payment terms
10.1 Payment is due 30 days from the date of the invoice.
VAT is payable on event fees at the prevailing rate.
You must pay each invoice we issue within 30 days starting on the date you receive it or, if there are fewer than 30 days before the start of the event, at least 7 days before the event starts.
Any exhibitor who has not paid the invoice by the due date for payment will not be permitted to be a sponsor or to exhibit and the booking will be cancelled.
(*If the event will be delivered over more than one session/day, reference to the start of the event is to the start of the first day/session).
Any exhibitor not having made payment by the time of the exhibition will not be permitted to exhibit.
11 Cancellation by the exhibitor
11.1 All cancellations must be submitted in writing to the Organisers.
11.2 In the event that an exhibitor wishes to cancel the space booking or fails to meet any of the payment obligations (whether as to the amount or dates of payments), then the organisers reserve the right to apply the following cancellation charge after 14 days and to re-sell the space.
The cancellation if received outside of 14 day cooling off period - 100% of total stand cost to be applied.
Where a booking is made within 30 days of the event, the exhibitor will have the right to cancel but will not have the right to receive any refund.
Cancellations made in writing within 14 days of the agreement will be exempt from cancellation charge.
11.3 Any payments already made to the organisers over and above the applicable cancellation charges will be refunded.
Should monies not, at the time of cancellation, already have been paid to the organisers the cancellation fee will still apply.
12 Cancellation by SPD
If the event has to be cancelled because of an insufficient number of delegates to make the event viable or because of any other factors outside our control, our only liability to you will be to refund the amount you have paid less a reasonable deduction (to be calculated by us) reflecting the value of the contract you have already received prior to cancellation.
If, instead of cancellation, the event is re-scheduled, you will have the option of proceeding with the new date or cancelling and having a refund as set out above.
12 Bankruptcy or liquidation
If you become bankrupt or insolvent or enter into liquidation or have a receiver, administrator, sequestrator or trustee appointed over any of your assets, we may terminate the contract with you immediate effect by giving you written notice in which case the cancellation charges in condition 11.2 shall apply.
13 Force majeure
13.1 We shall not be liable to you for any failure to perform, or delay in performing, any of our obligations under the contract if the event is abandoned, cancelled or suspended in whole or in part by reason of any cause beyond our control including, without limitation, war, fire, flood, explosion, national emergency, terrorism, labour dispute, strike, lock-out, civil disturbance, acts or regulations of national or local governments or the non-availability of the venue.
We may at our entire discretion, repay the [space rental] you have paid, or part thereof, but shall be under no obligation to do so.
13.2 It is recommended that exhibitors take out appropriate insurance against cancellation.
14 Use of logo
You grant us a non-exclusive and royalty free licence to use your name and logo and branding for the purpose of the event.
14 General
14.1 By submitting a request for sponsorship or exhibition space at the event, you are deemed to accept these Terms.
These Terms (and our booking form) constitute the whole agreement between you and us regarding the event and all other terms are excluded.
14.2 The organiser and the exhibitor agree to the fullest extent permitted by law that the terms and conditions in the contract are in the place of any warranties, undertakings, obligations or conditions implied by the common law statute, trade usage, custom or otherwise as to the fitness for any particular purpose of the goods and services being supplied under this contract.
14.3 The booking is personal to the exhibitor and must not be transferred, sub-contracted or shared in whole or in part.
The organiser may transfer or sub-contract its rights and obligations in whole or in part.
14.4 If a court finds that any of these Terms is not enforceable in whole or in part, this shall not affect the other Terms or the remainder of any part of a Term.
14.5 These Terms shall be governed by English law and the organiser and the exhibitor agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
where recording is a reasonable adjustment for a disabled delegate for study purposes).
These recordings can be in print and digital formats and can be shared across all international platforms including social media; including, but not restricted to: The organiser’s website, LinkedIn, and Twitter.
You understand that images and recordings (media), once shared over the internet, can be viewed, and stored internationally and not just in the UK and that the rights of you/delegates as an individual may not be protected to the same level, as they are in the UK.
You also understand that we may keep my images and recordings within their archives.
If you or any of your delegates does not wish to be filmed, recorded or photographed for promotional, teaching and research purposes you must inform us in advance and in writing.
We will process personal data we receive in connection with the event in accordance with all applicable Data Protection legislation and our PRIVACY POLICY which details how the personal data will be processed and the purposes for which the data is collected.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/partners:
Salford Professional Development and Salford Business School have a close working relationship in several areas.
We have worked in collaboration to develop exceptional training programmes for the Business, Media and Further and Higher Education sectors.
The programmes are delivered by academic experts and industry insiders, offering a mix of both academic and hands on development.
Salford Professional Development is also involved in organising and promoting many Salford Business School events to increase student numbers across all post-graduate programmes, particularly the Salford MBA.
Salford Business School won the Business School of the Year title at the Times Higher Education (THE) Awards 2014.
This was in recognition of its sector-leading work in supporting small and medium-sized businesses and offering students innovative industry experiences.
DMI is the global standard in Digital Marketing Certification.
Our mission is to support marketers achieve their learning ambitions and help them realise their full potential.
The DMI are the world's leading provider in Digital Marketing Courses, with a proven track record in transforming the skills of digital professionals to help build successful careers and promote continuous learning, to shape the workforce of the future.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/spd/find-us:
SPD is just a mile and a half from Manchester city centre.
Salford Crescent railway station is on campus and there are regular bus services.
Trains from Manchester International Airport run hourly and take 30 minutes to campus.
The airport can also be reached by car within 20 minutes.
There is a car park at the back of Adelphi House.
Instructions on how to pay are listed below:
PayByPhone is the most convenient way to pay for parking.
It’s easy; either do it online, use the PayByPhone app, or call 0161 880 0100.
Please have the car park location code ready which is displayed on the signs in each car park.
Please note, parking at the front of the building is reserved.
Anyone parking in the front car park without the appropriate permits will receive a penalty charge notice.
The PayByPhone system does not cover the front car park.
Disabled parking:
Blue badge holders are exempted from any fee.
You must display your blue badge clearly on your vehicle.
Overflow car park:
You can also park in Farmer Norton car park.
Please see attached map for directions.
Farmer Norton code: 59323

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/fashion-image-making-and-styling:
From magazines to Instagram, to films to music videos – images are the new currency.
Fashion images define the zeitgeist of the times we live in - in terms of how we dress, how we live and how we think – how do you want your times to be defined?
As one of the original courses within this field our Fashion Image Making and Styling degree course is both respected and supported by industry leaders.
We have a track record of producing successful graduates who have transformed the way we experience Fashion across the UK and globally.
We have an established network of industry partners providing live projects, collaborative opportunities and opportunities to showcase student work, these include Matty Bovan, Selfridges, The Face, Dazed and Liam Hodges.
We’re located in one of the UK’s fastest-growing and exciting cities.
A 15-minute walk from our stunning New Adelphi campus and you’re in the heart of Manchester – known for its thriving music scene, café life and shopping culture!
Not only this, but Manchester is a youthful city well known for tolerance, diversity and revolution from the suffragettes to Factory Records.
You’ll be following in the footsteps of legendary rule-breakers, liberal thinkers and instigators – maybe you’re next?
From your first year with us, you'll be taught by a range of staff who are themselves key game-changers within the field – here you will learn core skills from lighting and studio setup through to layout and fashion moving image – both working individually and as part of a team.
We will support and guide you in developing your own unique personal voice and vision.
In the second year you will have the opportunity to partake in an internship within the industry from New York, Paris, London and beyond you will have the opportunity to work with famous stylists, photographers and publications.
In year three you will be working directly with industry on external projects and on modules that inform your final portfolio – you’ve made it – now it is over to you to change the world with your vision!
99 percent of students studying BA (Hons) Fashion Image Making and Styling at the University of Salford were positive about the teaching on their course.
- National Student Survey
We are one of the few courses in the country to have its own magazine.
In FIMS you will have the opportunity to be published and have your work distributed throughout the UK.
Fashion Image Making and Styling (FIMS) is a progressive, creative and dynamic course that informs your employment opportunities within the industry.
This is a hands-on, practical course, where you will be creating images, experimenting, learning techniques and then undoing them.
All moving towards finding your own unique style and vision that will enable you to create amazing contemporary fashion images, build on your core skills and showcase your individual vision.
Check out these links to see what our students have been up to:
Want to find out more about our Image-making and Fashion Styling courses?
You can sign up for an Open Day follow us on Instagram and attend a campus tour.
You have a passion for fashion photography, styling and image making.
You want to launch a professional career in fashion photography, PR, film, TV or media.
You want to develop your creative aesthetic and gain a deeper understanding of styling and image making.
So, what does image making and fashion styling at university involve?
You’ll begin by developing your technical and knowledge-based skills, including styling, photography, casting, promotion, publication, layout, curation and moving images.
As your degree progresses, you’ll define your individual aesthetics by undertaking work placements in leading fashion cities around the world.
You’ll receive individual critique from renowned industry professionals, helping you to inform and strengthen your personal development.
As an emerging practitioner, you’ll spend the final year of your course critically reflecting on your personal journey.
You’ll use the skills you’ve developed to create a body of work that reflects the key themes of relevance, authenticity and social awareness.
Not only will this project give you the opportunity to pursue the area of fashion styling that interests you most, it will also help you to build a portfolio that can be used to establish your reputation as a fashion professional.
Want to find out more about our image making and fashion styling degree courses?
Gain a deeper understanding of what you’ll explore within each module below.
Good Taste/Bad Taste
The aim of this module is to introduce you to the basic aspects of fashion styling and image making in order to learn how to become a fashion tastemaker.
Experimentation and creative risk taking are encouraged as the meaning of taste is subverted and explored in relation to both styling and casting.
Tasks include casting, styling a model and doing a mini shoot.
Fashion A-A: From Aesthetics To Activism
In this module you will be introduced to the core research and critical skills you will need to develop the holistic creative thinking required of all modules on the programme.
You will gain an understanding of key aesthetics and practitioners in fashion.
You will also explore numerous social and cultural themes affecting and shaping contemporary fashion.
Tasks will include giving a group presentation to your peers on designers who are “breaking the rules” and producing an individual text project from a choice of sustainability, gender, feminism and race.
Collaboration: Learning & Sharing Together
This module will introduce you to the importance of collaboration and team work in industry.
You will be participating in collaborative processes in partnership with others to develop the practical and creative skills necessary to working collaboratively in industry.
This is a questioning and thinking module with the ethos of sharing at its heart.
Print’s Not Dead
In this module you will be working on a group project to devise and create your own magazine while also considering the history, importance and role of print publications in industry.
You will be introduced to the basic art direction, production, photographic and styling skills necessary to make a magazine from initial concepts through to creating fashion editorials and a final printed publication.
Fashion Film
For this module you will be introduced to the basic fashion film making techniques that will enable you to devise, film, edit and art direct your own fashion film from casting, styling and concept through to final product.
You will have the creative freedom to explore issues and themes that are both personal to you and resonant with contemporary fashion.
Family of Man: Photography & Emotion
This module will introduce you to the importance of emotions in photography and their role in creating impactful images with the power to make a difference.
You will explore iconic art and fashion photographers past and present.
You will also consider what it means in an ever-changing world to create a photographic document of what family means to you.
Taking inspiration from your photographic document, you will develop a related concept that will allow you to create a complementary fashion editorial and introduce you to casting and styling to shooting on location, editing and visual story telling in addition to learning dark room and film developing skills.
Art & Fashion
In this module you will be building on basic skills acquired in level 4 to now start to define your own original aesthetic, learning the importance of developing themes that are both personal to you and relevant to fashion.
You will be deepening your understanding of fashion and the ways in which it is informed by and intersects with art.
Taken inspiration from a visit to international art fair Frieze London, you will be developing and producing a shoot appropriate for publication in leading contemporary art and fashion publication Purple.
Create A Zine
This module is co-created with leading art book store Magma.
You will have the creative freedom to create a zine (self-published printed photographic book) from initial concept through to shooting, art direction, presentation and layout.
The best zines will be sold alongside the industry greats in Magma, allowing students the opportunity to place their work in a professional, real-world setting.
Culture Now
The aim of this module to gain the wider inter-disciplinary and trans-disciplinary cultural awareness necessary to inform the research and development of your creative modules.
Seminars and group discussions will enhance your critical thinking skills through the evaluation of fashion and contemporary culture while peer learning will allow you to be informed by the perspectives of others.
Building on research skills acquired in level 4, tasks will include keeping a digital log of your weekly consumption of art, fashion, music, books, magazines, newspapers etc; giving an individual presentation of cultural highlights to your peers and producing a report on a socio-cultural theme of your choice that is shaping fashion and beyond.
Styling and Image Making: Comparative Shoot
In this module you will develop an understanding of the image-maker and stylist’s role in spotting and instigating new cultural trends, developing an awareness of fashion’s place within wider culture.
You will also research a wide variety of fashion publications in order to understand different markets within fashion.
Building on your research into emerging cultural trends, you will develop a concept that will inform a shoot for two contrasting magazines of your choice.
Throughout this module you will be initiating your personal direction in preparation for your final year, while also learning to develop a flexible approach in order to adapt your work to different markets.
Internship
This is a self-directed module undertaken after the completion of Industry Ready, in which you will do a six-week full time internship in industry.
Students intern with both leading and emerging practitioners and publications in London as well as international fashion hubs such as Paris, Berlin, New York and L.A.
You will also have the opportunity to apply for the exclusive FIMS paid internship with Manchester Selfridges.
The aim of this module is not only to add to your knowledge of your chosen discipline but also to enhance future employment prospects.
It allows you to apply and develop knowledge and skills gained on the course while offering an understanding of relevant professional activities.
Live Project
This is a self-directed module and is offered as an alternative to Internship.
Students will research a directional fashion brand which they have identified they would like to work with in order to write an in-depth report.
Based on their research, students will also devise, art direct and shoot a photographic campaign for their chosen brand.
The aim of this module is not only to add to your knowledge of your chosen discipline.
It allows you to apply creative and technical skills through a simulated brief that mirrors industry practice.
External Brief
This module is co-created in an exclusive partnership with Selfridges.
You will respond to a professional standard brief with the aim of developing advanced creative problem-solving skills to produce multiple creative outcomes including a sketchbook, visual book and fashion editorial.
You will extend and refine your understanding of styling and image making in order to develop a personal and informed body of work, developing the integrity, authenticity and professionalism that will underpin the rest of your final year.
Create A Character
You will research and explore a character of your choice to develop an original and contemporary body of visual work.
You will gain an advanced understanding of the process of producing a collection of images and explore the full potential of styling and image making as a creative process.
This will allow you to develop key professional tools through the creation of a visual book, collage book and fashion editorial.
Final Major Project
The final major project is designed to allow you to synthesise your experiences on the course through the definition, research and implementation of a self-directed project based on a unique, culturally resonant theme of your choice with sufficient depth and scope to result in six separate editorial shoots.
The primary responsibility for the implementation of the project lies with you, and you will be assessed on your capacity to undertake a detailed examination of the theme you have identified supported by extensive research.
Effectively, this project provides a framework through which you are able to produce a substantial body of industry-ready visual work that clearly identifies a personal aesthetic and vision resonant with fashion and wider cultural trends.
Printed Matter
On this module you will create a progressive visual publication – either individually or as a group – to promote a summation of your work up to an industry standard.
You will have the creative freedom to work independently as you learn to establish yourself as a next generation professional.
Independent Research Project
This module provides an opportunity for you to engage in a detailed examination of an aspect of visual culture that is of interest to you.
You are encouraged to explore connections between your proposed study and your creative practice, underpinning and strengthening your own practice and providing an intensification of your critical and contextual understanding.
Dissertation
As part of your fashion image making and styling degree, you’ll be provided with a timetable that’ll include a breakdown of your scheduled lessons with timeslots for you to explore your independent research interests.
Your classes will be based at our New Adelphi building.
You’ll be studying in a progressive and forward-thinking environment where you’ll learn from highly creative and attentive teaching staff who will guide you from day one to graduation.
Clients you could be working with during your studies here include:
Marine Serre, Brother Models, Another Man, Crotch Magazine, Selfridges, House of Fraser, Heather Glazzard, Open Eye Gallery, Format International Photography Festival, Cottweiler, Frieze Art Fair, Attitude, Saint Luke, Ryan McGinley, Revolt London, The Face, Colliana Strada, Depop, Dazed, Sunday Times Style, JD Sports and many more.
We also have links with Sino Uk in China, opportunities in teaching and interning are available both whilst studying and beyond.
An important part of our fashion styling courses is how we assess you.
To showcase your academic strengths, we’ll ask you to produce assignments including coursework, projects and a final year dissertation based on a subject of your choice.
Michael Mayren
Owner and founder of Brother Models, www.brothermodels.com
All our Fashion courses are delivered by the School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology .
We are a creative community with a focus on creating a collaborative environment where you can thrive and gain the skills needed to pursue your dreams.
Our Engagement Team coordinates school-wide events such as the Create Student Awards , academic conferences, networking and volunteering opportunities, welcoming and wellbeing fairs and exhibitions like our annual Degree Show.
For non-course matters, you will have access to our university-wide support service askUS , who will support and guide you to be successful in all aspects of your life.
Throughout your time at Salford, you’ll be mentored and supported by experts.
And once you graduate, it won’t end there.
You’ll join a thriving alumni network across Greater Manchester and beyond, meaning you’ll be supported professionally and personally whenever you need it.
This fashion image making and styling course is based at our £55 million New Adelphi building, the home of design and creativity on campus.
When you study with us, you’ll learn from our experienced tutors and demonstrators, who’ll teach you how to use our design facilities.
Studio space – dedicated areas for each course, giving you room to think and create.
Marker Space workshop - create digital rapid prototypes using 3D printers, CNC machines, laser cutters and more.
Photography studios - industry standard photographic studios, which you can use in conjunction with darkrooms and digital printing facilities.
Workshops – from print to textiles, wood to metal, our range of workshops allow you to take your ideas from page to reality and work in a variety of media.
Mac suites - equipped with the industry-standard software you’ll need during your studies and in the world of work.
Want to explore our Fashion Facilities?
Take a 360 tour of our New Adelphi building or sign up for an Open Day .
Are you looking to learn more about the background of our fashion tutors and demonstrators, or put a face to a name?
Sign up to an Open Day and find out who'll work with you throughout your academic journey at the University of Salford.
A degree in fashion image making and styling provides you with a combination of theoretical and technical skills that are transferable to a whole host of professional roles within the creative industries.
Our recent graduates have gone on to establish successful careers in a range of related areas, from editing to personal styling and creative directing.
Many of our previous students have also secured roles as photographers, model scouts, merchandisers, publishers and artists for reputable brands like Frank Ocean, Tom Ford, Adidas, Mulberry, Burberry, Dazed and Confused, MTV and Polydor.
Graduates showing strong academic and research skills can pursue a further postgraduate path through our Postgraduate programmes on a full-time or part-time basis subject to a satisfactory proposal.
A fashion photographer
A stylist
A creative director
A visual merchandiser
A publisher
You will have the opportunity to meet and collaborate with a wide range of industry professionals.
The course has a network of professional contacts with leading fashion brands, publications and practitioners including Magma, X-Factor, Selfridges, Pop, Dazed & Confused, Man About Town, Tissue Magazine, Brother Models, JD Sports and Ryan McGinley.
The valuable knowledge and experience this brings, ensures that you are kept informed of the current changes and demands within the fashion industry.
To gain a place on this course, applicants are usually required to bring along their portfolio of work to a selection visit.
Personality, enthusiasm, passion and dedication are what we look for in our prospective students, as well as an ability to communicate visually.
An interest in photography, styling and image making is essential.
You’ll also have to submit a personal statement and meet our entry requirements.
A personal statement is a personal summary (up 4,000 characters) of your academic, professional/life experience and future goals.
We’ll want to understand:
As part of your application, we will need to see a portfolio of work to provide opportunity for you to share your creative practice with us.
Any offers will be conditional upon our subject team having the opportunity to review your portfolio, and we look forward to viewing your work.
For some applicants, you may also be asked to take part in an informal group seminar discussion or interview– either live or on camera – to demonstrate your skills.
Once you’ve made your application to study with us, we’ll contact you and let you know the next steps.
English Language at grade C/level 4 or above (or equivalent) is required.
Maths at grade C/4 or above (or equivalent) is preferred but not essential.
You must fulfil our GCSE entry requirements as well as one of the requirements listed below
104-112 points
A level
T level
Merit
DMM including Art & Design
Applicants may be considered for entry into level 5 (year 2)
Applicants may be considered for entry into level 6 (year3)
Foundation Diploma in Art and Design
Distinction = 112 UCAS points - if you have a Pass (80 points) or Merit (96 points), you must have additional qualifications to a total of 112 points.
Pass Level 3 Access to HE Diploma with 112 points (relevant subjects)
112 points including an art and design subject
31 points including an art and design subject
Pass in Diploma with at least 73% overall (relevant subject)
International students
We accept qualifications from all around the world.
Find your country to see a full list of entry requirements.
If you are an international student and not from a majority English speaking country, you will need IELTS 6.0 with no element below 5.5.
We also accept a range of other English language qualifications .
If you do not have the English language requirements, you could take our Pre-Sessional English course .
Or if you have finished high school in your country but don’t have the qualifications to gain entry to this course, you can take our International Foundation Year as a pathway to this degree.
Your tuition fees are regulated by the UK government who has proposed changes to tuition fees for UK students studying in England from 1 August 2025.
The fee stated reflects this proposed change, but remains subject to parliamentary approval.
Your tuition fees may increase in your first and each subsequent year of your programme to the maximum amount permitted by UK law or regulation for that academic year.
If you are a high-achieving international student, you may be eligible for one of our scholarships.
Course ID W227
Institution S03
From sustainability to the future of the high street, there are a range of issues that can...
The course aspires to create flexible, resourceful and creative fashion practitioners with...
By providing you with a solid foundation in photographic theory and practice, this course...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/fashion-design:
Fashion is a fast-paced and exciting industry, but where do you start?
Embark on a transformative journey with our leading Fashion Design degree at the University of Salford.
Located in the heart of Greater Manchester at our New Adelphi campus, you’ll be studying within one of the most vibrant centres of the UK.
This course offers innovative methods and industry-standard approaches to research, design, digital and making skills, empowering you creatively and technically.
You'll benefit from access to our purpose-built studios, cutting-edge technology, and industry-standard equipment.
The course also offers work placement opportunities where you can gain invaluable work experience, preparing you for a successful career in the fashion industry.
Our students have worked with leading design houses including Alexander McQueen, Armani, Hugo Boss, JW Anderson, Karl Lagerfeld, Mary Katrantzou, Philip Treacy, Vera Wang, Viktor & Rolf, and Vivienne Westwood.
In year one you’ll learn research, design and construction skills and develop a good understanding of the design process.
In year two, you’ll have the opportunity of work experience, to gain an essential understanding and knowledge of how brands and design studios work.
In your final year, you’ll develop your own collection alongside opportunities to show your work in outfacing environments.
We have previously shown at collections in London, Paris and New York Fashion Weeks.
We also provide a range of study visits for you to experience other fashion hubs around the world, previous trips have included London, Milan, Paris, Antwerp, New York, Tokyo and Shanghai.
The fashion industry is a global community, and we will help you begin this networking journey.
Our open-access studios have an atelier atmosphere, where you work alongside other year groups, sharing a professional space.
Beyond graduation, you’ll become part of our alumni network where job opportunities can become available.
Throughout the course, we invite industry professionals to work with students through live projects, presentations, or networking events.
Previous contributors have included guests from Adidas, H&M, Max Mara, Levis, Fred Perry, Iceberg, Superdry, Umbro, Harvey Nichols, Dr Martens, New Balance, and Patagonia.
Our academics are experienced designers and educators, supported by highly skilled technical demonstrators who will guide your journey as a designer.
With us, you’ll gain valuable entrepreneurial skills and professional experience essential to realising your potential as a future Fashion Designer.
As part of our award-winning Fashion Design degree course, you’ll gain the necessary skills and knowledge to be part of this exciting global fashion network, leaving the course with confident and strong design voices, be resilient and have a diverse understanding of how you can impact the future of the industry.
Collectively we aim to produce graduates with confident and strong design voices, with soul, diversity, and resilience.
Interested in learning more about studying Fashion Design at the University of Salford?
You can sign up for an Open Day follow the Fashion Design Instagram and attend a campus tour.
You want to study on a fashion design course that’s well-established, has great graduate prospects and is highly ranked in the United Kingdom.
You want to be able to come up with and present fashion designs to a professional standard.
You want to study in an environment that will develop your personal talent and unlock your full potential.
You want the opportunity to showcase your work in fashion shows.
You want the opportunity to show your work in major international fashion cities.
Year one is all about introducing you not only to the fundamentals of fashion design and giving you the opportunity to develop your skills in a hands-on project-based environment but realising the impact of risk taking and experimentation.
You’ll learn to illustrate, design, cut patterns and construct garments.
As well as this, you’ll also look at the perspectives and contexts surrounding fashion design.
By the end of your first year, you’ll be able to communicate your ideas to a professional standard and have the technical skills to make them a reality.
In your second year, the focus of your learning turns to the fashion industry.
You’ll undertake a live project, working with a fashion house or label.
This will give you chance to put what you’ve learned so far into practice in a real-world scenario, as well as give you first-hand experience of working with fashion design professionals.
You’ll develop your understanding of markets and design trends through research, analysis and practical projects.
At the end of year two, you’ll undertake a work placement to develop your awareness and understanding of the fashion industry.
Work placements offer the opportunity for regional, national or international experience in fashion-related organisations.
Your third year on our bachelor’s degree in fashion design provides the opportunity to personalise your studies to align with your interests and career goals.
All your hard work will be put into practice in your final project.
You’ll have the freedom to take your project in any direction you wish, and your work from this final module will be exhibited at a fashion show in Manchester.
Some students will also be selected to take part in our prestigious annual fashion show in London or other international destinations.
Introduction to Fashion Design
This module introduces you to the foundational principles of fashion design, focusing on the development of personal and innovative concepts in response to design briefs.
Throughout the module, you will investigate and apply a diverse range of media and construction methods, enhancing your technical skills and understanding of contemporary fashion practices.
The module emphasises the importance of research methodologies to guide and inform design decisions, encouraging you to apply your findings creatively.
You will learn visual and verbal communication skills, essential for effectively presenting and articulating your design ideas.
Fashion Design: Principles
This module introduces you to the primary principles of the 2D fashion design process.
Through a series of short lectures, you will engage in discussions around the fundamentals of fashion practices and their application within the industry context.
These lectures will provide a theoretical foundation, covering key concepts and methodologies essential for understanding the fashion design process.
Workshops and mini projects are integrated into the module to support these topics, allowing you to experiment and develop different aspects of your portfolio outcomes.
You will be encouraged to generate personal and innovative concepts in response to design briefs, utilising research methodologies to guide and inform your design decisions.
Fashion Contexts
The Fashion Contexts module develops your knowledge and understanding of the wider contexts surrounding fashion design and will develop your skills in critical thinking, visual analysis, research, communication and professional practice.
You will join a range of lectures, workshops and seminar sessions to support your individual exploration of the critical, ethical, cultural, political and/or commercial issues which shape contemporary fashion and wider visual culture.
Field trips, independent and group work tasks also support you in establishing a deeper understanding of fashion and ultimately, identifying potential areas for further enquiry at Level 5.
Introduction To Pattern Cutting and Construction Techniques
This skill-based module is primarily conducted within the workshop or studio environment through a series of demonstrations and lectures.
You will be introduced to various materials, workshop machinery, and studio equipment via structured demonstrations and practical exercises.
Assessment will be project-based, typically requiring you to compile a body of work that demonstrates your understanding and application of techniques, materials, and practical skills.
This body of work is generally presented in the form of a project file developed throughout the module.
Fashion Illustration & CAD 1
This module is designed to immerse you in various approaches to fashion communication, with a particular focus on drawing and sketching.
Emphasis is placed on both digital and hand-drawn methods of fashion design.
Learning is facilitated through workshops that include practical drawing for fashion and the use of industry-relevant computer software.
3D Approaches to Design Research
In this module, you will develop an understanding of research concepts and methodologies pertinent to fashion design.
You will demonstrate an awareness of design principles that can lead to innovative three-dimensional fashion outcomes.
Additionally, you will begin to expand your foundational skills in creative pattern-cutting methods and production techniques.
Fashion Illustration & CAD 2
This module builds upon the foundational skills acquired in Year 1, with a heightened focus on Adobe Illustrator and an introduction to digital design.
You will enhance your proficiency in both digital and hand-drawn methods.
Teaching will focus on and emphasise advanced techniques in Adobe Illustrator, alongside practical drawing sessions and the use of cutting-edge digital design tools relevant to the fashion industry.
This comprehensive approach ensures you are well-equipped with the skills necessary for modern fashion design and communication.
Critical Dialogues
Critical Dialogues asks you to investigate and share an informed critical perspective on a selected topic in fashion, clothing and their wider contexts.
Taught content introduces the ethical and theoretical considerations facing the 21st Century fashion designer to support you in identifying your unique position and establishing an independent enquiry into an area relevant to your emerging creative and/or professional practice.
Workshop, seminar sessions and formative review points support you to establish clear and confident communication of their findings and ideas.
Fashion Design Specialism
Fashion Design: Specialism will enable you to develop and realise your personal direction within the fashion industry and allow exploration of specific skills and techniques.
Through developing a personally derived concept and/or narrative, you will consider how your individual creativity and aesthetic expression can be applied to the fashion design process.
Through a succinct merging of 2D and 3D design principles you will produce a body of work which will support your progression into the final year of studies.
Work Placement: Fashion Design
Placements within industry not only add to your knowledge and appreciation of your chosen discipline but can also enhance future employment prospects.
This module encourages a liaison between you and the industry – allowing you to apply and develop your knowledge and skills gained on the course while gaining an understanding of the relevant working procedures of industry and the professional activities of design.
You will be supported to identify a placement that supports your chosen design field and future career aspirations.
Digital Fashion Design
This module is designed to bridge the gap between traditional fashion design and the digital future, ensuring you are well-prepared to lead and innovate in the fashion industry.
It aims to equip you with the knowledge and practical skills, understanding and proficiency in digital fashion design.
You will explore digital design-based software, 3D modelling, virtual garment creation, and digital pattern making.
Emphasis will be placed on sustainability, innovation, and the ability to adapt to the ever-changing demands of the fashion industry.
By the end of this module, you will be adept at creating digital fashion garments/collections that are aesthetically pleasing and technically proficient.
Fashion Design Professionalism
This module aims to enhance your understanding of fashion design and establish a solid foundation for creating a professional portfolio.
You will acquire the technical skills essential for effectively realising concepts within this discipline, encompassing research and concept development, the design process, garment construction, and portfolio skills.
The module emphasises professional strategies and approaches necessary for achieving practical yet creative outcomes, which are crucial for comprehending fashion design and preparing for work placements and the broader industry.
Design and Research for an External Brief
This module offers you the opportunity, to develop a comprehensive body of creative work that reflects a deep understanding of the contemporary fashion industry's realities and expectations.
It’s designed to prepare you for professional engagement by responding effectively to the constraints and demands of an external brief.
It also aims to foster an appreciation of the fashion industry's current trends, challenges, and opportunities.
This includes understanding market demands, consumer behaviour, and the impact of global fashion movements.
Pre-collection
This module serves as a prelude to the negotiated major project, where you will define your initial ideas and concepts for their final collection.
You will develop an understanding of creative pattern cutting, exploring the full potential of 3D design interpretation and considering pattern cutting as a creative process.
Portfolio Module: Fashion Design
Portfolio module is an opportunity to consolidate learning from the entire degree to compile a professional portfolio of your strongest work.
This diverse portfolio will include both edited existing projects alongside new, additional and refined 2D work that will act as an industry-ready, printed and digital portfolio.
We expect work within this module to be considerate of professional and contemporary presentation conventions.
Your portfolio will define the overall direction you wish to take into the industry, ready to show potential employers upon graduation.
Negotiated Major Project: Collection
Negotiated major project, is structured to integrate and synthesise cumulative learning experiences acquired throughout the course.
Students are encouraged to identify a specific issue or set of issues to focus their design investigation.
This project involves the definition, negotiation, and execution of a self-directed program of independent design investigation, research, and development, culminating in the presentation of a comprehensive collection of garments.
Major Project Proposal
This module will support you in the generation and development of a personal concept for your Negotiated Major Project collection.
Through exploring a range of research sources that inform your idea, you will navigate a written proposal that considers the implications of this research on your professional studio practice.
As part of this undergraduate degree in fashion design, your timetable will include a breakdown of your scheduled lessons with timeslots for you to explore your independent research interests.
As part of this course, you’ll be encouraged to create drawings, produce garments and compile visual and written notebooks in order to document your design process and the progress of your learning.
An important aspect of this course is having the freedom to find your own path in your studies, however there will be tutor guidance and support available to you throughout.
You’ll learn how to research effectively using the internet and university library resources.
Finally, you’ll work on workshop and studio projects where you’ll learn and develop technical skills that are essential for fashion design.
Assessments are an important part of your academic journey, giving you the chance to put the skills and knowledge you’ve learned into practice.
Throughout your fashion design course at University of Salford, you’ll be assessed through a variety of different methods including coursework, presentations and essays.
Georgie Wood
BA (Hons) Fashion Design
Natalie Slater, Junior Designer, John Lewis
Ellie Tait-Smith, Designer, Max Mara
Nneka Okorie, Apparel Designer, Adidas (Germany, Collaborations Designer)
Luke Clarke, third year student
Erin Stokes, third year student
Our Engagement Team coordinates school-wide events such as the Create Students Awards , academic conferences, networking and volunteering opportunities, welcoming and wellbeing fairs and exhibitions like our annual Degree Show.
For non-course matters, you will have access to our university-wide support service askUS , who will support and guide you to be successful in all aspects of your life.
Throughout your time at Salford, you'll be mentored and supported by experts.
And once you graduate, it won't end there.
You'll join a thriving alumni network across Greater Manchester and beyond, meaning you'll be supported professionally and personally whenever you need it.
This fashion design degree is based at our £55 million New Adelphi building, the home of design and creativity on campus.
When you study with us, you’ll learn from our experienced tutors and demonstrators, who’ll teach you how to use our design facilities, including specialist industrial machinery for fashion production.
Maker Space workshop - create digital rapid prototypes using 3D printers, CNC machines, laser cutters and more.
Take a 360 tour of our New Adelphi building or sign up for an Open Day .
Sign up to an Open Day , and find out who'll work with you throughout your academic journey at the University of Salford.
Your career options with a fashion design degree span everything from working as a designer, pattern cutter, stylist, through to becoming a buyer, visual merchandiser, illustrator or work within the retailer and management sector, to name just a few roles.
Graduates have gone on to work for renowned companies including Adidas, Fred Perry, John Lewis, Levi’s, Max Mara, New Balance, Puma, Zara, H&M and many more.
We’ve also had graduates go on to set up their own businesses using the skills they’ve gained on this fashion design degree.
A Fashion designer
A Visual merchandiser
A Buyer
An Illustrator
A retail manager
and more...
Students have the opportunity to meet and collaborate with a wide range of industry professionals.
The valuable knowledge and experience that visiting speakers bring ensures that you are kept informed of the current changes and demands within the fashion industry.
You’ll benefit from hearing a professional perspective which complements your learning and development while providing inspiration and an acute awareness of the fashion world.
Our visiting industry consultants and speakers are a valuable asset to the course and help us to maintain our contemporary outlook.
Recent guests have included the iconic fashion designer Romeo Gigli, the H&M design team, Emma Davidson director of Denza International, design teams from Max Mara Fashion Group, Lee Lapthorne, creative director of Doll & On-Off.
These guest speakers were invited as part of a lecture series, workshop or live project
Ready to apply for this fashion design course?
First and foremost, you’ll have to submit a personal statement and meet our entry requirements.
A personal statement is a personal summary (up to 4,000 characters) of your academic, professional/life experience and future goals.
We’ll want to see your personality and understand:
In addition to this, we’d also like to see examples of your previous work in a well-presented portfolio.
We want to know who inspires you, which brands and designers do you admire, and why?
Your portfolio can take the form of sketches or images of your textile creations.
We don’t expect you to be an expert - as you’ll learn new creative and technical skills on this course - but we’d like to see that you have some experience in a relevant area.
and that you can demonstrate a clear design process.
When reviewing your portfolio, we’ll be looking for examples of drawing and colour usage, design/idea development, sketchbooks and notebooks, photographs, as well as 2D and 3D work.
At this stage in your career, we would much rather see experimental and playful drawing and developmental work than all finished work showing a final solution.
We don’t need to see all the work you have produced - around 20-30 samples in your main portfolio would be ideal as well as some sketchbooks.
Applicants may be considered for entry into year two
Applicants may be considered for entry into year three
If you are an international student and not from a majority English speaking country, you will need IELTS 6.0 with no element below 5.5.
Students should expect to pay their studio levy each year.
Most undergraduate students will receive £150 per year from the Salford Inspire scheme which can be put towards your studio fee.
In addition, in year three of study, students will also incur a cost to participate in shows.
For optional trips, you should expect to pay from £350 to £1,200.
Costs are approximated based on the current academic year.
Course ID W225
This is as progressive course that works with your individual talent and ability...
Bring characters to life on the screen and stage with your artistic skills.
Study Costume...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/robotics-and-automation:
The rise of robotic intelligence is reshaping our world.
From transport to healthcare to manufacturing, organisations are discovering ways to improve task delivery and solve complex challenges.
Join the revolution with our MSc Robotics and Automation postgraduate degree.
Providing a strong foundation in control engineering and intelligent systems concepts, this practical and relevant course is recommended for industry professional and engineering-based graduates seeking to develop specialist knowledge and build a robotics-focused skillset.
Available with full-time and part-time study paths, course content will broaden your understanding of what robotics can do.
You will examine control technology and practices, and explore virtual reality systems.
As you progress, you will look at artificial intelligence and see how this is applied in the development of mobile robotics.
International applicant?
Please check international intakes for the latest information and application dates.
Start your MSc Robotics and Automation study journey
Register for our next Open Day where you can learn more about the course, tour our new engineering facilities and meet the tutors
You are a professional with a strong engineering background looking to develop specialism in robotics and automation for career progression or diversification
You are engineering-based graduate seeking to build specialist knowledge for a future career shaping the future of robotics
You are an engineering or computer science-based professional eager to learn how you can apply robotics and automation to develop solutions in industry
Drawing on our position as a leading UK robotics research centre, our MSc Robotics and Automation course is delivered through a range of highly-focused modules.
The 180-credit MSc award comprises four taught modules, plus a research dissertation.
The 120-credit PgDip comprises four taught modules.
This programme is designed to meet the requirement of the Engineering Councils Accreditation of Higher Education Programmes (AHEP).
Flexibility is at the heart of our learning approach.
You can choose to study this postgraduate course full-time or part-time on campus, with start dates in January and September:
The course timetable is designed to allow students with other commitments to structure their week around teaching sessions.
The course approaches robotics by providing a grounding in control engineering and intelligent systems concepts with practical experiences in hardware/software-based mobile robotics.
Led by a research-active academic and technical team, the course is delivered in our advanced robotics laboratories.
Practical experiences enable you to use robotics platforms, MATLAB toolboxes and programming languages, to produce hardware or software-based mobile robotics.
Current course topics include automation control systems, interactive visualisations, artificial intelligence and mobile robotics.
The dissertation module is your opportunity to plan, manage and implement a robotics or automation project.
Learn more about the current course modules in the section below.
The Robotics and Automation postgraduate course is delivered by an academic team with exceptional research experience and extensive professional connections.
Course leader: Dr.
Theo Theodoridis
Automation and Robotics
You will be provided with comprehension knowledge and understanding in robotics theory and practices including classical robotic manipulator kinematics, PID-based robotic manipulator control, and ABB Industrial Robot Programming and Simulation.
Mechatronics
Gain a comprehensive knowledge of the core mechatronic engineering discipline.
On this module, you will explore a range of closely-related subjects and applications, such as electro-mechanical system modelling, technological advances and usage of sensors and actuators, Real Time concepts and embedded systems, and robot control algorithms.
This module content provides awareness and preparation for a wide range of career opportunities in the automation, manufacturing, and electronic engineering industries, and for further study and research in Mechatronics.
Artificial Intelligence
The aim of this module is to give you a comprehensive understanding of the role of artificial intelligence in control applications, and provide you with practical experience of using techniques such as fuzzy logic, artificial neural networks, and evolutionary computing in engineering applications.
Mobile Robotics
This module will teach you to critically review and analyse current autonomous intelligent robots, consolidate and extend knowledge in robotics applications and provide a practical understanding of robotic navigation and locomotion.
You will also be taught the theory and practice of autonomous intelligent mobile robots and how these techniques and technologies impinge on research and industrial activities.
MSc Project/ Dissertation (Robotics and Automation)
You will work under the direction of an academic supervisor to carry out an advanced research or development project related to robotics and/or automation.
As part of this project you will be expected to:
Lectures and workshops introduce topics, providing opportunities to discuss them with your tutors and other students to develop your understanding.
Many topics are taught using extensive hands-on practical laboratory-based sessions .
Practical experiences include the use of robotics platforms, MATLAB toolboxes and computer programming languages.
Alongside formal teaching, you will also have regular meetings with your personal tutor, where you can discuss elements of the course, your progress and potential research topics.
Assessment strategies are designed to develop your skills for future employability and assessment success.
Feedback is regularly provided.
The typical assessment approach for this course is coursework (70%) and examinations (30%).
Laurent Teyssie
Industrial Development Manager, Intertechnique (Zodiac Aerospace)
Rising to the challenge of a changing world, our postgraduate courses are designed to shape the next generation of urbanists, scientists, engineers, consultants and leaders.
Driven by industry, and delivered by supportive programme teams, you can develop the knowledge and skills to take your career potential further.
A National Advanced Robotics Research centre since 1987, Salford is equipped with advanced facilities you will use to develop your knowledge and skills.
Our Autonomous Systems and Robotics laboratories feature an array of advanced equipment which include industrial robot arms (ABB Flexpicker, a six jointed Nachi arm, and a human-scale CRS robot), conveyor belt systems based on industry versions, plus a selection of wheel and leg-based mobile robot platforms.
When you start this degree, you are also joining a community making a difference in industry, our local region and in our wider society.
Many of our academics and technicians who support your course also deliver collaborative, interdisciplinary, high-impact projects and research that spans engineering, robotics and automation.
Supported by two decades of experience in automation and robotics, our Autonomous and Advanced Robotics (ASAR) Centre hosts one of the UK's largest international industrial-sponsored postgraduate programmes in robotics and automation.
The Centre also provides degree apprenticeship training for Siemens.
Something exciting is on its way in 2023.
Our new North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) will be a focal point of our commitment to industry collaboration, innovation, and skills in an established and continually expanding area of expertise by providing a hub which adds value to the University’s and wider Greater Manchester technical infrastructure.
NERIC will be a beacon for the University’s robotics and automation specialisms, with the £16 million facility serving as a hub for small to medium-sized industries (SMEs) looking to design, test and validate innovation in this rapidly growing area.
At the heart of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), robotics and automation is rapidly developing, and adoption across a wide range of sectors and industries, including healthcare, retail, manufacturing and logistics, is gathering pace.
There is huge career potential in areas of robotic design, control systems integration and design, factory automation, and engineering management.
As a robotics postgraduate, you can expect to find new and emerging engineering, technical and operational-based roles.
Read about Vincent's role at Dassault Aviation.
You might also choose to take your subject interest further with postgraduate research.
Home to PhD and Research Master’s opportunities, our Autonomous Systems and Advanced Robotics (ASAR) Centre has internationally recognised research excellence in Robotics and Artificial Intelligence (RAI).
A National Advanced Robotics Research Centre since 1987, the Centre is a spoke of the EPSRC Future AI and Robotics for Space Hub.
A robotics designer
A robotics engineer
A software developer
A control systems engineer
A robotics operator
This course is recommended for engineering-based graduates and experienced professionals who are fascinated by robotics, and want to be part of shaping how they will be part of our future.
If English is not your first language, you must meet our minimum English language entry requirements.
An IELTS score of 6.0 (no element below 5.5) is proof of this, however we do accept a range of equivalent qualifications.
Undergraduate degree
A 2:2 honours degree, or equivalent qualification, in engineering or science.
International student entry requirements
Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL)
We welcome applications from students who may not have formal/traditional entry criteria but who have relevant experience or the ability to pursue the course successfully.
The Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) process could help you to make your work and life experience count.
The APL process can be used for entry onto courses or to give you exemptions from parts of your course.
Two forms of APL may be used for entry: the Accreditation of Prior Certificated Learning (APCL) or the Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning (APEL).
For more information or enquires about this scheme, please contact: AdmissionsSEE-PGT@salford.ac.uk
Learn more about the Salford Alternative Entry Scheme .
Learn more about our latest international scholarships .
Learn to shape the next generation of flight and aviation with our specialist Aerospace...
Advance your professional engineering knowledge with our professionally-accredited...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/aerospace-engineering:
Two year
Global aerospace is at the forefront of advanced engineering and technology.
As we take flight further, you can learn how to drive innovation, deliver new efficiencies, and set new benchmarks with our MSc Aerospace Engineering postgraduate degree.
We are delighted this programme is accredited by the Royal Aeronautical Society .
We focus our aerospace engineering course on the design and creation of aircraft, spacecraft and associated components.
Across a range of specialist modules, you will refine your analytical skills and practical knowledge of engineering components and devices that are deployed in the production of civil and military aircraft, spacecraft, and weapons systems.
Start your MSc Aerospace Engineering study journey
you are an engineering or numerate science graduate looking to refine your skills to develop a career in aviation and aerospace industries
you are an experienced industry professional looking to cement or enhance your existing knowledge for career progression or diversification
you aspire to be a leading aerospace engineer with long-term ambitions to work at a senior professional level in the aerospace industry
Our MSc Aerospace Engineering course is delivered through a range of industry-focused modules.
The 180-credit MSc award comprises four 30-credit modules plus a 60-credit research dissertation.
The 120-credit PgDip comprises four 30-credit modules.
The course starts each January and September.
You can choose to study full-time or part-time on campus:
During the 2024/25 academic year, full-time students were on campus 5 days per week:
While we cannot guarantee this exact schedule for future years, this provides an example of how we aim to deliver the course each year.
The curriculum explores a range of specialist engineering topics.
You will explore aerodynamics, engineering computation and aerospace system design, with options to explore aerospace assembly or flight dynamics and control.
This programme is designed to meet the requirements of the Engineering Councils Accreditation of Higher Education Programmes (AHEP).
With a focus on your future career in either research or industry practice, you will bring together all of your learning and strengthen your analytical skills by undertaking high-level academic and practical work to form part of your final assessment.
To maintain real-world relevance and learning outcomes, the course team draw on long-standing professional relationships with aeronautics and aviation industry in the north-west, the wider UK and overseas.
These links, developed through collaborative research, development projects and commercial testing of products/components, support teaching, foster networking and enhance your learning experience.
Aerodynamics
On completion of this module you should have a comprehensive understanding and systematic understanding of knowledge and concepts of aircraft performance by modelling aerodynamic loads and propulsion system performance, leading to key results in both steady and accelerated flight.
You will also learn how to predict and interpret optimal performance in cruise, climb and glide and to use predictive modelling techniques in propulsion system and airfield analysis.
You will cover:
Engineering Computation
This module provides a systematic understanding of knowledge on finite element analysis as a tool for the solution of practical engineering problems.
You will develop a comprehensive understanding of the development of appropriate finite element models of physical systems, and how to interpret the results of the analysis.
The module also covers advanced aspects of finite element analysis including harmonic vibration analysis and will give practical instruction in the use of an industry-standard finite element analysis program.
Aerospace System Design
In this module you will develop an in-depth knowledge of aerospace systems and subsystem integration.
As a case study which is representative of larger aircraft, an in-depth knowledge of design to market requirements of unmanned aerial vehicles and their associated systems is a cornerstone of the module.
You will design and implement system requirements relevant to integrated aerospace systems.
A key focus of this module is ‘design for manufacture’ and hence the design has to be built and tested at the end of the module.
You will develop a core competency of the design, build, integrate and test procedures of aerospace systems for future requirements.
You will be able to demonstrate an advanced knowledge of the operating principles of aerospace system design and prepare system specifications and integration plans.
Ground testing, documentation and flight operations manuals are produced in line with CAA guidelines and requirements.
You will also develop a critical understanding of aerospace system developments for future system requirements
MSc Project and Dissertation (60 credits)
In this module you will design and undertake a substantial and unique independent research project, to be presented as an academic dissertation.
The nature of the project will depend on which of the three MSc you are taking.
Aerospace Assembly
This module will expose you to real engineering problems in an industrial or aerospace environment.
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of the processes associated with the assembly of very large aircraft structures, including the techniques of forming, joining and fixturing, and an awareness of the regulatory and design standards that have to be met, and the processes that must be used to ensure conformity with those standards.
The majority of the teaching and learning will be delivered through lectures and tutorials.
Engineers from the industry will contribute to the specialist areas of the syllabus as guest lecturers.
Group laboratory work will be conducted in a purpose built aeronautics facilities and will be used to relate theory to practical application.
There will also be a strong emphasis in developing the skills for guided self-learning.
Some modules will include a structured factory visit to illustrate the processes and techniques and to enable investigations to be conducted.
Taught modules are assessed using coursework and assignments.
Typically, this is split 70% assignments and 30% coursework.
Michael MacGlashan
MSc Aerospace Engineering student
An an engineering student, you will also have access to an Aerodynamics Laboratory which features low speed and supersonic wind tunnels, and a Control and Dynamics Laboratory which features a range of programmable control to test damping and short-period oscillation analysis, forced vibration and controller performance.
We also have a Merlin MP520-T Engineering Flight Simulator and an Elite Flight Training System.
Aerospace is one of the world’s growth industries and is projected to continue experiencing ongoing growth.
In 2018 alone, 62.5 million tonnes of valuable and time-critical air cargo was flown around the world.
It is predicted that many as 7.8 billion passengers will use air travel by 2036 (in comparison to 4.4 billion in 2018).
The forecasts highlight the potential for you to develop a successful long-term career in this field.
Popular career routes for aerospace engineering graduates range from the design, manufacture and operation of aerospace vehicles to working for aerospace-associated companies and their suppliers, governments and research institutions.
Today, you will find Salford alumni working at leading companies, including Airbus, BAE Systems, Roll-Royce, Thales, and Royal Air Force.
Our graduates typically find roles at companies involved in the design and manufacture of major sub-units of aeroplanes and related aerospace vehicles, such as engines, structural parts, avionics or environmental control systems.
Our Innovation and Research Centre (SIRC) is home to PhD and Research Master’s opportunities exploring the advancement of engineering, robotics and technology for societal progress and economic growth.
Explore our Doctoral School to learn more about research training, support and opportunities.
A systems engineer
An aeronautics specialist
An aviation consultant
A aerospace technician
This course is recommended for graduates and experienced professionals with ambitions to become successful aerospace engineers working at a high level in industry.
International Students are required by the Home Office and/or the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) to apply for an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) Certificate before they begin studying their course.
You may need to obtain an ATAS Certificate before you come to the UK in order for you to comply with Home Office regulations.
Please refer to your offer conditions.
You can find out if your programme requires an ATAS by checking the FCO website with your JACS code which will be on your offer letter should you choose to make an application.
If you cannot find it please contact our Applicant Services team.
If you have any queries relating directly to ATAS please contact the ATAS team.
You can apply for your ATAS Certificate here.
For more information or enquires about this scheme, please contact: admissionssee-pgt@salford.ac.uk .
Learn more about the University of Salford Alternative Entry Scheme .
Prepare for an exciting career at the cutting-edge of robotics with a Robotics and...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/graphic-design:
Graphic design has played a key part in the application of new tools and technologies which innovate how visual content is created, communicated, and consumed.
Today, as digital software, platforms and environments continue to evolve and change and so has the role of design and the designer.
A Graphic Design degree at Salford will provide you with an exciting opportunity to learn about and engage with the professional world of design, and to develop an individual, highly skilled practice that matches your ambitions for life after graduation.
There is even the opportunity to undertake a placement year, or year studying abroad at the end of your second year, allowing you to tailor your degree experience to your future aspirations.
Studying in our state-of-the-art New Adelphi building and based in Greater Manchester you will benefit from a wide range of research and networking opportunities.
You’ll be surrounded by Design Studios, independent galleries, Museums and leading online brands and Social Media creatives.
You’ll engage with a mix of industry-related and externally partnered projects undertaking assignments that investigate the social impact and potential of design as a driver of change.
Our students have won awards from prestigious competitions, recent wins include a D&AD (Design &.
Art Direction) pencil winner, ISTD (International Society of Typographic Designers) and two student successes at the YCN (You Can Now) awards.
Many of our students have also won bids for incubation start-up grants to create and generate their own businesses via support from the University of Salford business grants scheme.
Want to learn more about studying on our Graphic Design degree?
You can sign up for an Open Day or attend a campus tour.
You already engage in graphic design but want to learn the skills you need to turn it into a career.
You’re eager to develop your practical and technical design work.
You want a rounded understanding of graphic design that includes digital and traditional methods, as well as an insight into the future of the graphic design sector.
Studying graphic design at university will prepare you for success in an industry that is constantly moving.
With digital media taking centre stage in today’s world, there’s never been a better time to study a graphic design degree in the UK.
You will be working with a diverse and experienced course team whose own work includes projects with Disney, Bloomberg, BBC, Guardian News and Microsoft.
In addition, our staff team have worked with major international magazine and publishing companies.
Working also with well-known figures from the music industry including New Order and The Doves; members of our team have also undertaken important funded projects exploring the role of identity within music.
In your first year, you will develop a broad understanding of the fundamentals of design practice, exploring a wide range of digital and traditional processes.
There will be plenty of opportunities to put your learning into action in your own creative work.
Our graphic design course is centred around practical projects with a strong ‘learn-by-doing’ approach.
In your second year, you will delve into advanced aspects of design, developing your knowledge further.
You will work on projects looking at the role design plays in society and have opportunity to engage in live, externally partnered briefs to develop your awareness of professional practice and build insight into the possibilities of working in the creative industries.
In the final year of this Graphic Design degree course you’ll complete a personal project to showcase your individual interests, where you’ll also have the opportunity to explore digital and traditional approaches to design and producing a range of outcomes that could include branding guidelines; prototypes for apps and websites; printed publications; social media materials; illustrations; typefaces; animations; and to build a unique portfolio of work that highlights your approach and abilities as a designer and an innovator.
Your final project will be negotiated with your tutor and you’ll have the freedom to take it in a direction that reflects your interests.
It is an excellent opportunity to really show what you can do and put all of your hard work into practice.
You’ll be taught by experienced professionals who regularly contribute to international conferences, exhibitions, books and papers.
You’ll cover a wide range of areas including typography, branding, art direction, user-experience (UX), printmaking, illustration and much more.
Find out what you’ll be covering in each module by taking a look at the course breakdown below.
MAKE (40 credits)
This module introduces a variety of approaches to developing an applied understanding of the fundamental design principles used within graphic design practice.
Through a series of practical workshops and projects you will explore/experiment with process and production.
The impact in relation to demographics and end users will also be explored to fully understand design problems.
THINK (40 credits)
This module aims to challenge and develop an awareness of the graphic design sectors.
You will be introduced to the constraints inherent in designing for specific purposes and encouraged to fully explore design problems.
Focus will be placed on the application of previous learning, the development of design processes and capabilities regards the generation of ideas and use of creative thinking.
ENQUIRE A (40 credits)
This module will introduce you to the key skills required for graphic design.
The introduction of several technologies and processes relating to graphic design will be the basis of the learning.
As part of the learning a critical reflection will form part of the submission which will inform the thinking and direction of your work.
DO (40 credits)
In this module you will engage with the various aspects of graphic design and identify where your main interests in graphic design are.
You will engage with multiple short live projects and industry focused workshops where you will be exposed to graphic design today.
These projects will give you the opportunity to explore things such as motion design, interface design, interaction design, branding design, illustration, and packaging, etc.
WORK (40 credits)
This module will challenge you to produce design outcomes that are relevant to your own personal aspirations.
Having identified the area of graphic design you aspire towards in the future you will produce a professional portfolio of work that aligns to these career aspirations.
You will also be required to develop and implement a strategy for your own personal promotion and employment.
ENQUIRE B (20 credits)
This module will introduce you to the current skills and thinking required in graphic design.
ENQUIRE C (20 credits)
This module will introduce you to the current thinking required to be a graphic designer.
By looking at the world of graphic design you will develop your own plans, and identify what this will look like.
At the end of second year, you might choose to take a placement year - working in the design industry - or a study abroad year at one of our partner institutions overseas.
EXPLORE (40 credits)
This module offers the opportunity to consolidate specialist interests by enabling you to select from a range of projects that allow flexibility of process, media, and outcome.
These projects will be either course set, industry partnered or from a range of design award schemes.
AUTONOMY (40 credits)
The Autonomy module is designed to allow you to bring together and synthesise your prior learning and experiences on the course through the definition, negotiation, and implementation of a self-determined programme of study.
ENQUIRE D (40 credits)
This module will introduce you to the future knowledge and skills required in graphic design.
The introduction of several new and emerging technologies and processes relating to graphic design will be the basis of the learning.
A positioning project and a critical reflection will form part of the submission which will inform the future thinking and direction of your work.
We use a range of teaching methods including:
For all studio modules, you will be assessed on 100% of coursework, which usually involves research, development work including ideas generation, design process, final outcomes and critical reflection and evaluation.
Enquire B will be assessed by a multiple-choice test.
Katie Riddell
Senior Editorial Designer Social Schain
Dan Teanby
Charly Harvey
David Williams
Type & Graphic Designer and Founder / Manchester Type
Summer-May Henry
BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduate
All our Art and Design courses are delivered by the Salford School of Arts, Media, and Creative Technology .
Our Engagement Team coordinates school-wide events such as the Create Student Awards , academic conferences, networking and volunteering opportunities, welcoming and wellbeing fairs and exhibitions like our annual Degree Show.
This Graphic Design course is based at our £55 million New Adelphi building, the home of design and creativity on campus.
When you study with us, you’ll learn from our experienced tutors and demonstrators, who’ll teach you how to use our art and design facilities.
Explore our Art and Design facilities at New Adelphi , or take a 360 tour of our New Adelphi building.
Are you looking to learn more about the background of our Art and Design tutors and technical demonstrators or put a face to a name?
Find out who'll work with you throughout your academic journey at the University of Salford.
Explore the Art and Design faculty at the University of Salford
After graduating, you will be well-equipped to go into several areas of graphic design, including branding, design for print, editorial design, illustration, web design, and many more.
If you choose to take the option of the placement year, then you will already have a year's experience under your belt and a network in the creative industries.
In addition, you will gain the skills you need to move into related careers within the ever-evolving creative industries in marketing, project management, social media, and account handling.
You may choose to work for an established business or secure your own work as a freelance professional.
Students from our graphic design undergraduate degree have gone on to work both nationally and internationally at companies such as Absolute, Aire Global, Allotment Productions, The BBC, BGN Agency, Cafeteria, Code Computer Love, Cube3, Dept, Dootrix, Factory Create, Havas Lynx, magneticNorth, Mighty Giant, Monterossa, Refinery, Social Chain, The Hut Group (THG) and Umlaut.
You can read Summer-May Henry’s – an experienced professional and graduate from this course – story about which projects she’s worked on since graduating.
Graduates showing strong academic and research skills can pursue a further postgraduate path through our Postgraduate programmes on a full-time or part-time basis subject to a satisfactory proposal.
A Graphic designer
An App designer
An Animator
We offer many opportunities to engage with industry and this graphic design degree has close links with a range of design companies and industry networks both locally and nationally.
Industry experience is also integrated into your modules, with live briefs and other opportunities such as print fairs and exhibitions at internationally acclaimed venues within the north-west and beyond.
Employers we have worked with include:
To gain a place on this Graphic Design bachelor’s degree, you’ll have to submit a personal statement and meet our entry requirements when you apply.
Within your Graphic Design degree personal statement (up to 4,000 characters), we’ll want to understand:
DMM arts and design or design and technology
Pass Level 3 Access to HE Diploma with 112 points (relevant subject)
112 points including Art & Design/Design & Technology
31 points including Art and Design/Design and Technology
Pass Diploma with 73% overall (relevant subject)
Course ID W211 BA/GR
The shared Foundation Year provides the perfect opportunity for people who want more time...
Give your interior design career a head starts with our BA in Interior Design.
Develop...
Advancements within the digital industry have led to a huge revival in animation...

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/international-partnerships-visitor-request-form:
If you are an overseas university who would like to visit the University of Salford to discuss opportunities for collaboration please complete our 'Visitor Request Form' below.
This will enable us to understand the nature of your enquiry or visit and help us to plan accordingly in order to maximise your visit to the most relevant departments, and with the most appropriate colleagues to meet you during your time in Salford.
Email: academic-partnerships@salford.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0)161 295 4642
Please complete this form at least 21 days prior to the date of your proposed visit.
Any information you provide will be securely held in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 and the University of Salford Data Protection Policy

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/working-for-us:
By joining Team Salford, you can be part of our ambitious journey and help to make a real difference to the people and communities we support.
We have answered the needs of industry since 1896, when we began as the Salford Royal Technical Institute - we’ve now been a leading university for over 50 years and are one of the fastest growing universities in the country.
We are proud to have more partnerships with SMEs than any other Greater Manchester university.
Our forward-thinking approach has powered progress for 125 years.
Strong partnerships with the likes of Siemens, NHS Trusts and The Lowry bring real-world industry opportunities for our students and make a real  difference to the communities around us.
Industry collaboration is at the heart of what we do.
It means we develop and nurture outstanding relationships with industry in all aspects of our business, from developing our curriculum and producing job-ready graduates, to research, consultancy and knowledge exchange.
Our location sets us apart.
We are just 2 km from Manchester.
Greater Manchester is one of the most diverse city regions in the UK with over 200 languages spoken.
Our colleagues live and work in one of the most vibrant regions in the UK, a hot spot of digital innovation, excellent schools and colleges, and with affordable city, suburban and rural living options to suit a wide range of lifestyle choices.
The city offers great transport links both in and around Greater Manchester.
Furthermore, a packed calendar of world-class events and festivals to discover.
We are a campus university, and our Peel Park campus is unique, offering lots of green spaces to explore.
There are an array of amenities on site, from eateries to our sports centre, museum and library.
On site is our £55 million New Adelphi building, a north-west hot spot for talent, academia, and creativity, alongside the recently opened £65 million new Science, Engineering and Environment building, a hub for discovery and innovation.
The campus also boasts some of the country’s leading test facilities such as Energy House 2.0, a world leading energy test house, and the North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC).
Our MediaCity campus is at the heart of one of the country's leading digital and media hubs - sitting right next to neighbours such as ITV and the BBC.
The campus is home to our undergraduate and postgraduate Film, TV and Media, Creative Digital Media and Gaming, and Journalism degrees.
This high-tech, sustainable and accessible MediaCity building is a north-west hot spot for talent, academia, and technology which is supported by a thriving media industry in Greater Manchester.
The School of Science, Engineering and Environment (SEE) is a centre of discovery and innovation.
Rising to the challenge of a changing world, our multi-disciplinary courses, research priorities and industry collaborations, will shape the next generation of urbanists, scientists, engineers and industry leaders.
We are one of the leading centres for practice-based education in the creative disciplines within the North West.
Combining innovative teaching with hands-on skills development, our School of Health and Society offers expert teaching staff, strong industry links and excellent facilities, for students to advance their research or careers.
We are a forward-thinking, dynamic school with a commitment to lifelong learning and real-world impact.
Our business, law and accounting degrees prepare our students for a fulfilling and successful professional career.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate courses provide opportunities to gain real-world knowledge and develop future-focused skills in a supportive and inclusive environment.
Along the way, our students learn to be curious, adaptable and confident, ready to meet the digital, ethical and sustainability challenges of the 21st century.
There are many ways we can support your development, find out more here
Find out more about the offer to you as an employee
Explore what it feels like to be part of Team Salford
Getting to our campuses is quick and easy More about travelling to our campuses
Getting to our campuses is quick and easy

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/reward-and-benefits:
Supporting the financial wellbeing of our colleagues is a key priority
Financial wellbeing support is just part of the way in which we support our colleagues to be at their best.
As an employee at Salford, there are many benefits, services and rewards available to you.
These are just some of the many ways in which you can benefit.
We have a range of family friendly benefits including maternity, paternity, shared parental responsibility, adoption and other special leave and support networks.
We also have a generous annual leave package which includes additional university closure days at Christmas and we support a Holiday Carry Forward scheme.
All colleagues also have the option to buy additional annual leave, to help you find the right balance.
In partnership with our Estate Planning and Will Writing specialists, we offer all colleagues a free will writing service to help plan for the future, protecting family and loved ones.
This free service is offered flexibly to colleagues either by telephone or video call, and colleagues are supported step by step through the process with a specialist adviser.
My Salford, our online employee benefit portal, is a one-stop-shop for discounts and colleague benefits with a huge range of discounts on high-street shopping, supermarkets, holidays and cinemas, along with additional seasonal offers.
As an employee at the University, you can also apply for a Totum (previously NUS) card to receive additional discounts.
In partnership with Specsavers, we offer colleagues vouchers for free eye tests and a contribution towards the cost of glasses.
We offer a wide range of benefits and discounted options for commuting, such as season ticket loans, parking discounts, first bus travel club, and even a car lease scheme.
For those who cycle to work, our Cycle to Work scheme which offers a range of discounts on bikes and accessories from top retailers.
One of the most valuable parts of your total reward package at Salford is your pension.
We operate very generous pension schemes with a range available depending on the grade of your role.
To help colleagues make the most of the financial wellbeing services available, we run a range of webinars and workshops for areas such as pensions, our online benefits platform or will writing, to help raise awareness and provide essential information and support.
Read more about our legacy and vision, and explore our campuses

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/training-and-development:
Advance your career with us.
Here at Team Salford, we are always learning.
We never stop!
We are curious and take on new experiences in order to be better.
By joining our team, you will be supported to develop individually and professionally to be at your best.
There are many ways in which we do this and here are just a few…
We recognise that everyone works differently.
We will give you the freedom to shape your work and your environment to allow you to perform at your best.
We are clear about roles and expectations but are flexible about how you achieve your goals.
With the support of your manager and colleagues, you can decide what development and support you need to succeed in your role, taking ownership of your learning and development.
There are many opportunities to engage, share and access a range of services to help you achieve this.
In today’s evolving, fast changing and digitally focused world, we need to be agile and adaptable to pick up new skills and stay relevant.
We encourage our colleagues to feed their curiosity and explore their development in a variety of ways from more traditional classroom offerings to on demand online learning across a wide range of topics.
There are a number of resources available for you to access to include LinkedIn Learning and extensive library services.
You may also have access to various subscriptions and online training programmes to ensure you’re up to date.
Whatever your role, you will have access to relevant training and support.
This may include the opportunity to sign up for specialist training programmes to help you stay at the forefront of your professional field.
There may also be the opportunity to complete a qualification such as an apprenticeship to help you upskill in your role.
We also run a range of internal leadership and management programmes, to include Salford Managers, find out more below.
Throughout your career journey with us, you will have dedicated time to discuss your development and future ambitions.
You will be supported to plan, shape and work towards your goals, as well as encouraged to broaden your experiences and skills to help you achieve them.
We provide regular reviews, feedback and opportunities for you to develop and to help you to be the best you can be, whatever your future ambitions.
Many of our colleagues progress onto different roles across the University as well promotional opportunities within their departments.
Did you know?
We offer a full subscription to LinkedIn Learning for colleagues to enjoy its suite of online learning collections at any time.
There are courses on the soft skills core to suit every role – like communication, project management, leadership – and for every skill level, from beginner to expert.
Find out more about our offer to you as an employee
Read about our legacy and vision, and explore our campuses

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/our-people-and-culture:
What does it feel like to work as part of Team Salford?
At Salford, all our people are important to us, and we have services dedicated to your mental and physical wellbeing.
We value diversity - in backgrounds and in experiences.
Our difference makes us stronger, and together we share a passion for improving students’ lives.
We offer you a rewarding career.
A career where everything you do will make a difference – to the students, our local community and the world around you.
We aim to create an environment where colleagues are trusted and empowered to work in a way that helps them perform at their best.
We support flexible ways of working and encourage colleagues to take on new experiences and challenges to develop themselves and achieve their goals.
We are not afraid of doing things differently and encourage innovation and creative thinking.
Partnerships and making connections are key to our delivery.
We collaborate, and together we achieve great things.
There is a real sense of belonging here at Salford.
We are proud of our diverse community.
We aim to raise the aspirations for all colleagues, providing a level playing field and inclusive opportunities.
We celebrate difference and embrace new ways of doing things.
This is what makes this a great place to work.
We are always looking to create opportunities to bring our diverse community together to network and share their ideas.
We also have a dedicated Faith Centre.
This is a unique space for those with or without faith to come together and build connections.
We have a range of networks available to support colleagues, raise issues, and be a voice to represent colleague interests.
The networks are an opportunity to meet other colleagues, develop and have a say in how we deliver on our ambition to create an inspirational, inclusive learning and working environment, celebrating the diversity of our university community in our everyday conversations.
There are currently five colleague networks – Parents Network, Salford Proud, BAME Network, Women’s Voice and SalfordAbility, with plans to launch more soon.
Here at Salford your voice and views are important to us.
We welcome feedback and input from different perspectives.
We connect, build communities and have a shared understanding through having great conversations.
There are a range of forums available to open up conversations and share our colleague voice, to include our Vice Chancellors Q&A session and our Colleague Forum, to name a few.
These forums are important for colleagues to share views, understand different perspectives and build relationships.
Saying thank you is important.
That’s why our ‘thank you’ colleague recognition scheme is all about that.
It gives colleagues across our university the opportunity to recognise peers and teams regularly.
We also run recognition events alongside our Vice Chancellor and Women's Voice awards.
We never miss an opportunity to celebrate the fantastic work that happens across the university and our unstoppable colleagues!
As part of our colleague community, there are many ways you can make a wider difference to our university and its people.
Ways in which you can contribute or volunteer include Give As You Earn initiatives for charitable causes and opportunities to volunteer at University-wide events such as graduation, student registration and open days.
Here at Salford, we are proud of our diverse community.
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is at the heart of everything we do.
There are many ways we can help your development, find out more here

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/wellbeing:
The wellbeing of our colleagues is at the heart of everything we do
Here at Salford, we strive to create an environment where all colleagues can thrive and their individual needs are met.
Colleague wellbeing is key to this, and we recognise that this looks different for everyone.
We offer a wide range of services, support networks and resources for colleagues to access in a range of different ways to suit them.
We encourage open conversations about wellbeing, so we can keep supporting our colleagues to be at their best.
We are committed to supporting both our students and colleagues with their holistic wellbeing goals, which is why the University has created an Institutional Vision Statement for Wellbeing.
The vision statement sets out our intentions for the future and positions wellbeing at the heart of everything we do.
You can read through our wellbeing intentions and how we are embedding a whole-university approach to the health and wellbeing of all our people.
We have over 65 trained mental health first aiders across the university who are available to talk to colleagues about any problems they may be facing.
They can also signpost to sources of help and support both within the university and externally.
We offer colleagues access to a 24-hour free , confidential help and advice service, as well as an in-house counselling, for those who would prefer a face to face appointment.
Colleagues can talk to qualified counsellors for support with any personal, work, or family issues they may be facing.
Our Mental Health Support Service provides colleagues with confidential support for stress, anxiety, depression, low mood and much more.
This support service from Access to Work is available to any colleague who is struggling with their mental health or wellbeing and it is affecting them in work.
At the University of Salford, we want a place where everyone can thrive.
We believe in zero stigma surrounding mental health and encourage open discussions so that we can offer the type of support to colleagues that really makes a difference.
Alongside our support services, we run a wide range of events and awareness campaigns to help educate and support colleagues, and to encourage positive conversations.
We also have a wide range of resources such as mental health support and wellbeing apps to help track mood, support wellbeing goals and manage stress.
Our Sports Injury Clinic is free for colleagues to access and provides expert advice and support for injury or musculoskeletal problems.
Colleagues can also access a wide range of podiatry treatments from our fully supervised student clinic including help with foot problems, nail surgery, biomechanical issues, and sports-related foot injuries.
Whether you are interested in swimming, going to the gym, exercise classes, or joining a sports team, our Sports Centre has something for everyone, with discounted colleague membership.
For the cycling and sustainable transport enthusiasts, we offer a Cycle to Work program.
Our physiotherapy service is accessible to colleagues and offers advice and treatment for people who suffer with musculoskeletal problems.
We also have an onsite GP clinic that colleagues can register with for accessible medical support services.
Find out more about our offer to you

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/information-for-applicants:
In this section you will find information about applying to work with us, as well as tips for interviews, travel essentials and other useful links.
Here at the university, we continually strive to create an inspirational, inclusive learning and working environment, where everyone feels that they belong.
We are passionate about breaking down barriers and we celebrate the diversity in our everyday conversations.
Our student population is already incredibly diverse, and we want to ensure this is reflected across our colleague profile as well.
We are a Disability Confident Employer.
As such we will endeavour to offer an interview to disabled people who meet the minimum criteria for the job.
The aim of this commitment is to encourage positive action, encouraging disabled people to apply for jobs and provide an opportunity to demonstrate their skills, talent and abilities at the interview stage.
An employer can take steps to help or encourage certain groups of people with different needs, or who are disadvantaged in some way, to access work or training.
Positive Action is lawful under the Equality Act.
The disability confident guidance from the Disability Confident employer scheme (GOV.UK) states;
"By offering an interview to an applicant who declares they have a disability this does not mean that all disabled people are entitled to an interview.
They must meet the minimum criteria (sometimes shown as “desirable skills”) for a job as defined by the employer.
It is important to note that there may be occasions where it is not practicable or appropriate to interview all disabled people who meet the minimum criteria for the job.
In certain recruitment situations such as high-volume, seasonal and high-peak times, the employer may wish to limit the overall numbers of interviews offered to both disabled people and non-disabled people.
In these circumstances the employer, could select the disabled candidates who best meet the minimum criteria for the job rather than all of those that meet the minimum criteria, as they would do for non-disabled applicants .”
At The University of Salford we are committed to fair and accessible recruitment, and double-check invited interviewees for all appointments, to ensure our commitment to the Disability Confident scheme.
Please check your application account before you attend your interview to make sure you have everything you need and are as prepared as possible.
On your account will be details of your interview date, time and location, as well as who you will be meeting and any tasks or requirements that need preparing for your interview.
We know that the more comfortable you are at interview, the more we will see you at your best.
That is why we try and make things as relaxed as possible to help you feel confident and comfortable.
We also welcome notes if you wish to bring these along with you.
Here are our top five tips to help you with your interview:
All the information you need about travelling to our campuses can be found here:
If you have any access requirements for interview, please let us know by emailing colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk and we will do our best to accommodate your requirements.
If you have any reasonable adjustment requests for interview, please let us know by emailing colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk and we will be in touch to understand what you would like to request.
We will do our best to accommodate your requirements.
If you can’t make an interview and need to reschedule, you can do this via your application account.
Log into your account or email colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk .
Please allow sufficient notice for any changes.
If you’re unable to attend on the day, please email colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk and we will do our best to reschedule, where possible.
For some interviews, remote options can be accommodated, for example, if travelling distance is too far or work commitments are restricted.
To request a remote interview via Microsoft Teams, please email colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk .
Following your interview, someone should contact you within a few days to let you know if you have been successful or not on this occasion.
If you haven’t heard from us, please contact us at colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk .
We are delighted that so many people apply to join us at Salford and we wish we could respond to everyone with feedback, but we regret we cannot provide feedback on individual applications.
Some guidance on how to apply can be found on our Applying To Work With Us leaflet, so if you weren’t successful this time and are keen to be considered for other positions, please check here for pointers on how to submit a strong application, showcasing your skills and experience!
As an employee, there are many benefits, services and rewards available to you.
These range from wellbeing support, healthy pension schemes, generous annual leave packages, employee discounts, and more.
We also offer a broad range of training and development support to help you be at your best and work towards your future career ambitions.
Whether you’re relocating from within the UK or you are moving internationally to join us, our Recruitment Team can provide advice and information to help you such as visa requirements, sponsorships and eligibility to work in the UK.
Contact our team at colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk .
If you are in the process of applying to us, you can contact our team at colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk .
If you have received an offer and/or contract of employment from us, you can contact the HR Team at colleague-helpdesk@salford.ac.uk .
When applying for a role online, please ensure you complete all sections of the form in full.
This is to ensure your application can be successfully submitted to us on the system.
When completing your form, please refer to the job description and person specification, showing how you meet the necessary criteria for the role.
All sensitive personal information is confidential and will not be shared by the university.
Please provide as much information as possible to support your application so that the shortlisting process can be as fair as possible.
For most roles, you will also be able to upload a CV and other supporting documents to support your application.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/careers-at-the-school-of-arts-media-and-creative-technology:
Join our team and be part of one of the leading centres for practice-based education for creative disciplines within the north-west.
We are proud to be a school that nurtures creativity, values talent, and provides a collaborative space in which our colleagues, students and partners can thrive.
From the £50 million New Adelphi building at the heart of the green Peel Park campus, to our MediaCity base in the centre of one of the UK's leading media production hubs, our spaces are a hub for creativity.
A hub of discovery, creativity and innovation, our programmes encompass music, dance, film production, design, media, English and performing arts.
Our partnerships help us to deliver research into and across arts, humanities and social sciences.
We focus on domestic and international collaborative work, including our Salford International Innovation Studio at MediaCity.
Our research anticipates and supports the needs of our media industry neighbours, such as ITV, BBC and Dock 10, developing high impact technologies.
Our research helps to improve lives too.
Our ‘Design against Crime’ research project helped to transform the design of our cities to ensure they are safer and better suited for our communities.
A dedicated campus at the heart of MediaCity, one of the country's leading digital and media hubs
Companies such as the BBC, ITV, Dock 10 and more are based in MediaCity, on our doorstep
We bring research into arts, humanities and social sciences together.
With over 100 post-graduate students it is the largest research centre within the university
Find out more about the benefits and rewards
Find out more about training and development
Find out more about EDI at Salford
Follow the latest news from our school.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/careers-at-the-school-of-health-and-society:
Be part of a passionate team shaping the future workforce in health, social care, wellbeing, and public services.
The School of Health and Society is the largest provider of nursing and midwifery bachelor’s degrees and the second-largest provider of allied and public health programmes in the North West.
Our strengths lie in the breadth of our offering across a range of subject areas including counselling, nursing and midwifery, allied and public health, psychology, sociology, social work and social policy, policing and criminology, and sport.
Our students learn in industry-led facilities, tackling real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment.
This helps our students develop industry practice experience as well as high-level communication skills, to make a real difference to patients.
Collaboration is at the heart of what we do, working with a wide range of industry partners across health and social care to produce highly skilled graduates with real work experience.
Key partners include the NHS, Stockport and Tameside Trusts, Northern Care Alliance, Manchester Foundation Trust, Greater Manchester Mental Health Trust, local authorities and social care units, professional sports clubs, prisons and the Greater Manchester Police, to name a few.
We're also part of a global community of healthcare professionals, working together to make a difference.
In a rapidly changing world, we are keen to leave a productive legacy of helping people at all stages of their lives, improving physical, psychological and social wellbeing.
We have an interdisciplinary research network and research centres that focus on improving health, social and individual outcomes.
Our research centres include:
Have you considered a career in research or teaching?
If you are a knowledgeable, enthusiastic, and innovative registered practitioner looking to find out how you could contribute to teaching the next generation of our workforce, we would love to speak to you.
Opportunities may be available in either full-time or flexible roles, giving you the option to continue with clinical practice.
We work flexibly with employers offering a range of opportunities from hourly paid teaching to secondment and full-time academic careers.
We have ambitious plans to further develop our campus as our school continues to grow.
There will be a phased approach to the development, with the first phase set to include a new clinical building.
Further developments will include expansion of our in-house clinics, digitally enabled technologies, and more social and interactive spaces to enhance collaboration and personalised learning.
Our ambitions will continue to build on the success of our teaching, simulation and research, giving students more real-world experiences, improving accessibility, and providing greater community and partnership opportunities.
This is an innovative, ambitious project that will enable further innovation, enhanced student experience and prepare us for the future.
We are the largest provider of nursing and midwifery bachelor’s degrees and the second-largest provider of allied and public health programmes in the North West
We have over 8,000 students from across the world
Our Physiotherapy course is ranked in the top ten nationally – The Complete University Guide

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/careers-at-salford-business-school:
Join our team and be part of a forward-thinking school where industry collaboration is at the heart of what we do.
We deliver opportunities across business, law and accounting, giving students real-world knowledge and future-focused skills.
Industry collaborations, knowledge transfer partnerships (KTPs), research partnerships, international exchanges, student opportunities, outreach activities - these are just some of the ways we can connect and work together.
As a Small Business Charter accredited school, we are proud to work in partnership with a wide range of regional businesses, from SMEs to multinationals, supporting growth and productivity in Greater Manchester and the wider region.
Our partnerships help to produce graduates who have the ability to apply their academic knowledge to real-world business scenarios and problem solve with the efficiency and professionalism expected in high-level careers.
Launch@Salford is our on-site business incubation that supports students and graduates setting up a business
We are in the top 5 HESA ranking for SME engagement and through being the first university in the UK to gain a Social Enterprise Gold Mark
Our on-site SILKS law clinics offer free legal advice to our community, where students can practise their client-facing skills
Find out more about our reward and benefits

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/careers-at-the-school-of-science-engineering-and-environment:
Join our team at the School of Science, Engineering and Environment and be at the forefront of research and innovation.
We are home to cutting-edge research that makes a difference.
Our aim is to transform the quality of life for society and the wellbeing of next generations into a better and more sustainable future.
With the largest group of research centres at the university, plus world-class test facilities such as Energy House 2.0 and the Acoustics Research Centre, we’re leading the way for innovation and research.
We offer nearly 200 career-focused undergraduate, postgraduate and research degree courses across human and natural sciences, computer science, engineering, acoustics, architecture and the built and natural environment.
With fast-growing specialisms in architecture, biomedical science, cybersecurity and robotics, the evolving portfolio includes many exciting study fields for our digital-driven society.
Our multi-disciplinary courses, research priorities and industry collaborations, will shape the next generation of industry leaders.
Our partnerships help us to deliver innovative research, share expert knowledge and develop specialist facilities to enrich our students’ learning.
Our research and innovation centres work together to collaborate around the world’s greatest challenges including net zero, climate change and resilience, healthy living, smart cities and industry.
Our focus is on translating our pioneering research into real-world impact for people and industry and our research is recognised as world leading.
88% of our research impact submissions are either world-leading or internationally excellent
For over a decade, Energy House has led research and innovation in housing energy efficiency
For over 60 years, Salford Acoustics has been a UK leader in teaching and research, with facilities that have shaped innovative audio products and set noise legislation worldwide
Our reward and benefits
Training and development
Equity, diversity and inclusion

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/jobs/professional-services:
A wide range of roles available across our professional services areas, from administrative and customer services roles to leadership and development.
Our professional services teams are the driving force behind our University, providing essential services and organisational support to ensure the best possible student experience.
As a professional services colleague at Salford, you will benefit from a comprehensive training and development support package, as well as many benefits and rewards.
You will be part of a broad network of professionals and work collaboratively with colleagues from right across our University.
Our Digital IT team provide essential services to the University’s students, academics, and professionals, and so much more!
The team explore new technologies and strive to innovate, with a strong focus on improving the customer experience.
The ambition is that Salford will become the destination of choice for students who will have exceptional levels of employability when they graduate.
Our three pillars of Digital Strategy, Digital Delivery and Digital Service all work together as a key enabler for the University to achieve this.
The Directorate of Student Success, Administration and Support is one of our largest directorates at the University and is made up of …
The Library work in partnership with our academic staff to deliver flexible services that enhance our students’ experience and enables them to thrive while studying at Salford.
The Library is a bustling 24-hour operation where learning is at the core of everything.
Yes, there are books, archives and DVDs, but so much more!
Our library is the beating heart of campus life: spaces for learning and collaboration, friendly faces, specialist knowhow, and a virtual hub for knowledge and discovery.
Our counselling and wellbeing team are a passionate team of experts where the student experience is at the heart of everything they do.
They deliver a wide range of services to support students on their individual journeys.
They engage with our students in a creative customer led, flexible and innovative way, whilst anticipating and responding to the needs of our diverse community.
The Customer Services team is responsible for the administrative processes that support student registration, graduation, certificate and transcript production, and the administration of tuition fees.
Our friendly Customer Services team also provide a front facing service to all students in the askUS referral lounge in University House and manage student enquiries.
The Campus and Student Life team comprises Student Inclusion and Engagement, Residential and Campus Life, and Welcome, Transition and Events.
Working closely with colleagues from across the University and external partners, the team are accountable for a broad range of campus focused infrastructure and operations that support and enhance the experience of our diverse student community and allows students to maximise their time with us.
The Quality Management Office provides central support within the University for the assurance and enhancement of the quality and standards of the University’s awards.
The team supports key strategic aims in academic improvement, growth and diversification, and internationalisation.
The team’s role is to ensure that quality assurance policies and procedures are robust and effective in maintaining and monitoring the standards of academic awards, and to support the enhancement of the student learning experience.
View the latest career opportunities in the Directorate of Student Success, Administration and Support section.
Our Estates and Facilities team lead the development of our campus, creating engaging and innovative learning, working and living environments for colleagues, students, and partners.
The Directorate has over 300 employees and works with a wide range of external contractors.
The services arm of the Directorate is responsible for delivering full estates and facilities management to the University, including capital development, property maintenance, cleaning, security, caretaking and landscaping.
Covering 33 buildings across the estate, split currently across 5 sites.
Led by the Estates and Facilities team, the University is undergoing a transformation to deliver its Campus Masterplan.
Together with Salford City Council and The English Cities Fund, there will be an investment of £2.5bn over the next 20-years, as part of the Crescent regeneration programme.
This investment will transform our campus and create a new city district that will bring together industry, education and innovation, providing new spaces for teaching, innovation, commercial, residential, green space and sustainable travel.
Our Finance Department is responsible for the overall financial management of the institution and its subsidiaries.
The department is made up of a team of 70 staff and provides a full range of financial services to the University.
The Finance team work closely with Academic Units and Professional Services to maximise opportunities and ensure financial sustainability.
Our Human Resources Directorate is the University’s people team.
They manage everything from recruitment, onboarding and induction, people policies, right through to development, wellbeing, reward and benefits, and change management.
They lead on shaping the overall colleague experience – ensuring an inclusive workplace with a sense of belonging, where colleagues are valued and supported to be at their best.
The International and Regional Development Directorate is fundamental to the delivery of the University’s internationalisation strategy and ICZ (Industry Collaboration Zones) agenda.
The Directorate includes Degree Apprenticeships, UK and International Partnerships, the International Office, Salford Languages, Enterprise and the ICZ support team.
More about Salford Languages
Salford Languages is a centre of international study and language learning, offering a range of British Council-accredited English language courses and foreign language programmes to current and prospective University of Salford students.
Our Learning and Teaching Enhancement Centre work with our academic schools to embed changes and enhancements to practice.
Their role is to support and inspire educators and facilitate change through action.
LTEC is led by a senior academic and supported by a broad range of professionals with a proven track record of excellence in learning, teaching and assessment.
The Centre is an enabler to inform and change practice and to communicate successes, bringing Salford to the forefront as a sector leader.
Our Marketing, Recruitment and External Relations team are responsible for the core range of activities that promote and engage with our external environment and stakeholders.
This includes both prospective and current students, businesses and our local community.
Made up of Marketing and Communications, Student Recruitment and Outreach and External Relations teams, we work together to plan and deliver key activities that support the University’s ambitions for growth, diversity and an increased profile.
They also provide marketing expertise to colleagues and support events, corporate projects and new initiatives across the University.
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange team provide support for our colleagues in pursuit of research and enterprise activity, growth in research and enterprise income, and performance in the REF and KEF.
Our delivery supports our ambitions to grow industry engagement and income, enhance the student experience, develop world class research, produce real-world impact, and develop a vibrant community of high-quality researchers and enterprising staff.
The team work to support the development of a pervasive research and enterprise culture, through an environment of continuous improvement and excellent customer service, enhancing our industry collaboration activities and driving enterprise, research and growth.
The Vice-Chancellor’s Office is made up of the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Team, the team responsible for the overall strategic direction of the University, and the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Support Team.
The Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Support Team provide executive administrative support to VCET and private secretarial support to the Chair of Council.
The team provide first class executive administrative support and hold themselves to the highest of standards, promoting excellence in delivery.
Explore the reward and benefits available
Find out more about our training and development offer
Our people and culture - what it feels like to work here

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/international/online-events-for-international-students:
Join our online events to find out more about studying at the University of Salford at our exciting campuses near Manchester, UK.
You can hear from our international team, academics and students and have the opportunity to ask them questions.
To get reminders to attend our events, you should sign up to our mailing list so you don't miss out.
Keep checking this page to be the first to know about upcoming events.
We have a regional representative for each geographic region who can help you make an application, meet your conditions and guide you on making the right choice for you.
Book an appointment to ask them any questions.
If you don't see your region listed or you're unsure who to contact, please email salford-international@salford.ac.uk and our friendly team will connect you with the right person.
If you have applied for a creative course within the School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology, you can book an appointment with our Associate Dean International, Tim.
Tim can offer guidance to on how to create an excellent portfolio to help you be accepted on to the course you have applied for.
Click the link below to book an appointment with Tim at a time that is convenient for you.
As a prospective student from India, Sri Lanka, or Nepal, you have the opportunity to speak to our representatives directly online and ask any questions about studying at the University of Salford.
Whether you want to know more about your course of choice, need help with applying, or if you want an update on your application you can meet with Mr Jordan Aird (based in Salford) and Ms Madhu Sharma (based in Mumbai) online, every Tuesday and Thursday from 16:00 – 17:30 IST.
Join the meeting room using the link below through your browser during these times and we will be happy to answer your queries.
There are many things which make us unique, but our location is one of the things which really set us apart.
We're located in the diverse city of Salford, Greater Manchester which is in the Northwest of England.
Our Peel Park campus is minutes away from the vibrant Manchester city centre, which is a hub of museums, art galleries, restaurants and shops, plus the home of Manchester United FC and Manchester City FC.
Travelling to and from Manchester city centre, or anywhere in the UK or abroad is super easy.
Manchester Piccadilly train station is easily accessible from our campus, and from here you can get across the UK.
Manchester airport is only 30 minutes away and from there you can fly almost anywhere in the world!
Our main campus, Peel Park, offers the best of both worlds: state-of-the-art learning facilities set against beautiful green space, within twenty minutes’ walk of the centre of Manchester.
We also have a campus at MediaCity, a stunning waterfront location at Salford Quays is also home to TV, digital and creative organisations like the BBC and ITV.
We schedule events throughout the year, for different subject areas and levels of study.
Keep checking this page to find out about the latest events and how to attend.
If you have any questions about one of our events or anything else to do with studying at Salford, please contact us at enquiries@salford.ac.uk and we will be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campus-tours:
Discover what makes the University of Salford special by joining one of our campus tours.
Our campus tours are led by our friendly student ambassadors who will guide you through our campuses and give you a feel for life at Salford.
We offer tours across all three of our sites:
Our tours run throughout the year, we don’t currently have any dates available but future dates will be made available in autumn.
There are plenty of other opportunities to explore Salford, including Open Days, offer holder events, and virtual tours .
Visit our Undergraduate Events Page or Postgraduate Events Page to learn more.
We’re here to support you and answer any questions you may have!
Contact us at:
Interested in learning more about our courses or application process?
Fill in your details on our Course Enquiries Form , and we’ll get back to you.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/postgraduate/postgraduate-discovery-month:
Are you considering a master’s degree or doctoral study?
Join us for our next Postgraduate Discovery Month , which will include a series of exciting events, taking place throughout November.
We’ll have a variety of events and sessions tailored to master’s (MA, MSc, PgDip/Cert) and doctoral (PhD, MSc by Research, MPhil) level study.
Whether you’re looking to visit our campus or join us virtually, there will be something for everyone.
For master's and doctoral level study
One of the main events in our Postgraduate Discovery Month is our Postgraduate Open Day, taking place on Wednesday 26 November, from 13:00 to 18:00.
Enjoy informative talks, campus tours, academic sessions, and more.
It’s the perfect way to immerse yourself in university life and learn how we can help you achieve your goals.
Can't make our Open Day?
Join a student-led, guided campus tour at our Peel Park, Frederick Road, or MediaCity campuses (depending on your course of interest).
Campus tours take place during Discovery Month and throughout the year.
Explore our facilities and see where your studies could take you.
Can’t make it to campus?
No problem!
Our online sessions will offer a range of recorded and live events designed to cover every aspect of postgraduate study.
We'll be offering sessions with general advice about postgraduate study, including:
More information about online session will be available closer to the time .
For master's level study
We’ll also hosting subject-specific sessions giving you the opportunity to speak to our tutors across our schools, so you can delve deeper into your area of interest.
These sessions are a fantastic opportunity to ask questions, explore course content, and discover how our programmes can help you achieve your goals.
Bookings for these sessions will open closer to the time.
We’re here to help!
If you have any questions during Postgraduate Discovery Month, feel free to get in touch:
Take the first step towards postgraduate success and join us at our next Discovery Month.
We can’t wait to welcome you to the University of Salford!

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/student-life/how-i-made-myself-at-home-in-a-new-city:
I had this feeling inside of me that felt like it was time to get out there and get on with my life.
I listened to that feeling and now here I am in Salford.
It was always my intention to find a city that I could end up living in full time and adapt my old life to my new life.
My whole life has been a constant move, from Essex to Spain, to Lincolnshire and then back to Essex where I moved to multiple homes.
By the time I was 11 I had been to six schools.
As much as I wanted to stay in one place the experience has made me able to adapt to new living situations pretty easily.
Here are a few things that I do to settle in quickly.
How can you possibly feel “at home” if your suitcase and boxes are still full?
Empty them and find a home for all of your belongings.
Don’t forget to set up any electrical items you may have straight away, it’s good to get all the annoying and fiddly jobs done first so then everything else feels easier.
Now you have unpacked, grab a cup of tea (if that’s your thing) and let everything sink in.
Realise that this is the start of the rest of your life and feel inspired.
List everything that’s positive about your new home, is it spacious?
Is it cosy?
Leave the negativity in your suitcase and zip it up!
Taking a walk is a great way to get to know your surroundings.
I took a walk on my own when I first got to Salford and I set myself the task of finding a supermarket, a doctor’s surgery and a bar.
If you do that you will know where to go when you’re on the search for the bare necessities.
This was probably the biggest thing that worried me about moving somewhere new, being sociable.
It is a nerve racking thought when you do not know anybody but when living at university pretty much everyone is in the same position, so keep that in mind.
There are so many groups on social media for individual courses or societies so make the effort to engage with other people.
Sometimes though it can get out of hand, it has done for me.
I am currently in 19 ACTIVE group chats.
To be honest most of them are on mute because I couldn’t deal with the constant notifications!
Tip: choose your group chats wisely.
If you are like me you like your space.
I found that when I have a film night on my own with chocolate and tea I appreciate my surroundings a lot more, I feel safe and secure and most of all cosy.
By doing this it allows you to “get to know” the place you now call home, as it becomes a secure base for you.
If you do all these things then I think you’ll really start to feel settled.
I hope you enjoyed these tips and I hope you use them too!
Remember leave the negativity zipped up in your suitcase, that’s the one thing you do not have to unpack!

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/student-life/escaping-the-city:
Studying in Salford not only means you're a stone's throw away from Manchester city centre, but you're also in easy reach of a more tranquil alternative, with nature quite literally on our doorstep.
So whether it's a picnic in Peel Park or an adventure a little further afield, accessing the countryside or taking some headspace from your studies couldn't be easier.
Take a look below to discover scenic beauty spots close by.
Situated right on our doorstep, Peel Park sits next to our Peel Park campus, on the flood plain of the River Irwell.
It's a green haven for students looking to escape city life, bringing tranquility to the concrete structures of the buildings that surround it.
Perfect for a jog, picnic in the summer months or a stroll through when you head to your next lecture.
There's even a community park run there every Saturday!
Peel Park has also been the subject of paintings by famous Salford artist, L.S Lowry, which adds to the historical beauty of this open garden landscape.
Salford Museum and Art Gallery, also located on our Peel Park campus, sits next to Peel Park and is a great art venue to explore in your free time.
Situated on the lower ground floor of the museum is Lark Hill Place - a recreation of a typical Victorian street - and what's more, it's free to visit.
Inside there's also a café, providing another option for lunch with friends.
RHS Garden Bridgewater opened in 2021 and is based in Worsley, Salford.
It's said to be 'Europe's biggest hands-on horticultural project', bringing 154 acres of beautiful landscaped gardens to the area.
It's only a 15 minute drive from the University, so you can explore at your leisure.
As a student, you can get unlimited free visits by paying a tenner for membership.
Visit the RHS Garden Bridgewater website for more information.
Don't take it from us: hear what our students have to say about getting out and about in Salford and Manchester over on our student blog, Made in Salford.
Start with Tia's blog: Top 5 days out from Salford Crescent train station.
Hear from student blogger Rhys as he explores outdoor swimming in the Quays over at MediaCity.
Salford student Tia gives some top tips on places to go when the sun appears in Manchester - make a note for those not-so-rainy days!
Max explores some of Salford's most popular (and picturesque) walking routes for those days you feel like escaping the city.
Also a 15-minute car journey from our main campus is Heaton Park, a large country park with open grass spaces, an animal centre, cafè and forest home to an abundance of grey squirrels.
With over 600 acres of parkland, Heaton Park has also been the host of events such as Parklife Festival , a popular Indie and Dance music festival that has seen the likes of Cardi B, Dave, George Ezra and Camelphat perform on its stages.
So, when you become a student here, you'll not only have a scenic space to escape to - but also one of the UK's most popular music festivals to enjoy every year.
You'll be just shy of a two hour drive away from the heart of the Lake District, Windermere, when you study with us.
Perfect for rambling, walking, cycling and exploring the breathtaking views of the rolling mountains in one of Britain's most scenic hotspots.
Image location: Buttermere, Lake District.
Similar to the Lake District, the Peak District is a walker's paradise and has equally stunning views and scenic routes to explore.
A little closer to home, it takes just under an hour to reach the heart of the Peak District, leaving you with plenty of time to explore the countryside.
Image location: Bamford Edge, Peak District.
Learn more about things to do whilst studying on campus.
Discover city life in Manchester and Salford.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/campaigns/talking-salford-podcast:
Talking Salford is our official podcast where we celebrate the achievements and careers of our outstanding alumni after graduation.
The podcast is a staff-student venture recorded at our MediaCity campus, right at the heart of the UK’s media and digital industries.
So far, guests have included Salford graduates who have gone on to create impactful TV shows, change the music industry, make globally successful businesses and much more.
All episodes of Talking Salford are available to listen to on Acast or watch on our YouTube channel .
Listen now to learn about our guests' experiences as students at the University of Salford and be inspired by their achievements post-graduation.
Hear from our guests about their Salford experience and achievements post-graduation over on Acast.
All episodes are filmed and released on YouTube.
Watch the full interviews with our celebrated alumni on our official YouTube channel.
After graduation, many of our alumni go on to achieve great things on the world stage.
So far on the podcast, we've had the opportunity to chat to guests who have made waves in the world of business, politics, as well as the stage and screen.
Is there someone that you think needs to have their story shared?
Get in touch with the Talking Salford team by emailing Loughlan Campbell at l.r.campbell@salford.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/accommodation/looking-for-accommodation:
Searching for the right accommodation whilst you’re studying?
There are many options for University of Salford students, from purpose-built student accommodation to house-shares and flats.
We understand it can be hard knowing where to start – especially in big cities like Salford and Manchester – so we’ve created this handy page to get you started.
Are you a current student looking for accommodation?
We have rooms available in Peel Park Quarter (for undergraduates) and John Lester & Eddie Colman Courts (for postgraduates and undergraduates).
Purpose-built student accommodation – also known as “halls of residence” or “student halls” – is a popular option for many students.
We highly recommend these CLV accommodations because they are exclusively for University of Salford students.
Both options provide a safe, supportive and social environment where you can make new friends, join in with weekly events and activities, experience new things and feel part of our vibrant student community.
However, if you prefer somewhere different there are other student halls across Salford within about 10-15 minutes of one of our campuses.
Make sure you read our top tips below before booking anything.
Private rented accommodation such as house-shares, apartments and flats are particularly popular with returning students.
There are loads of house-shares across Salford and Manchester in properties ranging in size from three to four rooms up to seven+ rooms.
There are also plenty of flats and apartments suitable for single occupants, couples or friends.
House-shares are often cheaper than purpose-built student accommodation.
A room in a house-share typically costs £550-£800 per month depending on the property and area.
Apartments are more expensive but can be a good option if you’re splitting the cost with a partner or friend.
One and two-bedroom apartments tend to start around £800 or £950 respectively and can be up to £1,500+ per month for higher end properties.
There are numerous platforms available to find accommodation in the private rental market.
We’ve listed some well-known options below, but we do not vet any of the landlords or agents, so be aware of potential scams and never pay any money unless you are sure the situation is legitimate.
Visit Action Fraud for advice on how to protect yourself from rental fraud .
Most accommodation contracts are 42 to 51 weeks in purpose-built student accommodation or six to 12 months in the wider rental market, but there are some shorter-term options available if you aren’t here for the full academic year.
As well as looking for short-term rentals on the platforms listed above, you could try the following websites if you need somewhere to stay for just a few days or weeks.
Remember that we don’t moderate these platforms, so stay vigilant against potential scams and don’t part with any money unless you’re sure.
If you are joining us in January, we recommend you check directly with our local purpose-built student accommodation providers.
They sometimes have rooms available from January until June or August.
Sometimes other students advertise the remainder of their tenancies for take over.
This can be a good way to find short-term accommodation, but before you take over someone else’s tenancy, make sure the landlord approves of it.
If the landlord is unaware, you could end up being asked to leave.
Looking for accommodation can feel difficult, especially if you haven’t done it before.
Our tips will help you find the right property, avoid scams and understand your rental liability.
When searching for accommodation, there are a variety of platforms you can use.
Many of the properties you see listed will be legitimate, but unfortunately there are scammers who use these platforms to con people out of large sums of money.
Never pay any money unless you are sure the situation is legitimate.
For additional advice on protecting yourself from rental fraud, visit Action Fraud .
When looking for accommodation in the private rental market, you should always view a property before making any payments.
It’s best to take someone with you, but if you can’t, let someone know where you are going and who you’re meeting.
Look thoroughly at the whole property and use Shelter’s viewing checklist to help you spot signs of disrepair or other issues.
We know it’s boring, but you must read your contract.
If you don’t, you (or your guarantor) could end up being liable for unexpected charges.
Accommodation contracts are legally binding (even if you change your mind about moving in, or move out early), so make sure you read it from top to bottom before signing so that you fully understand what you are legally committing to.
Be particularly mindful of joint tenancies.
In joint tenancies, all tenants are equally responsible for rent, so if someone doesn’t pay, you (or your guarantor) could end up footing the bill.
Read more about joint tenancies and other types of rental agreement on Shelter’s website.
If you’re unsure about anything, you can ask the SU Advice Centre to check your contract before you sign.
Different accommodation providers have different cancellation policies.
Make sure you understand yours fully before you sign so that you know what your options are if you want to cancel before your tenancy starts, or once you have moved in.
Don’t assume you’ll be able to cancel free of charge – in the private rental market, you will usually need to find a replacement tenant in order to be released from your contract.
Most student halls take a deposit of £100 to £250 to secure your booking.
In the private rental market, you will usually need to pay a holding deposit of one week’s rent to reserve the property, followed by a damage deposit of five weeks' rent if you proceed with the tenancy agreement.
Read more about deposits on Shelter’s website.
Most accommodation providers will require you to have a UK-based guarantor.
A guarantor is a person who agrees to pay rent or damages if the tenant fails to do so.
For students, guarantors are usually parents or guardians.
International students and those who are care-experienced or estranged can’t always provide a UK-based guarantor, so we have partnered with guarantor company Housing Hand to offer a discounted price of £250 for 12 months to University of Salford students who apply using the Housing Hand Salford link .
Not all accommodation providers accept Housing Hand as a guarantor.
Alternatively, you might be asked to pay the full rent up front.
If you are a care leaver or estranged student and don’t have a guarantor, contact askUS@salford.ac.uk specialistsupport@salford.ac.uk as we might be able to provide additional support.
If you're still struggling to find accommodation after using the resources above, please contact askUS .

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/askus/topics/accommodation/accommodation-when-you-live-with-a-disability-or-a-health-condition:
The sorts of things that you might tell them about include:
So that you receive a suitable offer of accommodation it is important that you:
Student residences can be noisy, lively places.
If you need an especially quiet room because of a disability or health condition, please be sure to let them know when you fill in your application.
Similarly, if you need to move in early because you might have difficulties familiarising yourself with your new accommodation, let them know when you apply.
If you have friends or relatives with disabilities who might visit you regularly, please include this as they may be able to allocate you a suitable room.
Please note that residences may not always be able to offer you a room and may need to request further medical evidence in support of your application.
For further information and enquiries please contact our Disability Inclusion Service .
This is a confidential service providing information, advice and guidance to prospective and current disabled students.

New sentences found on https://salford.ac.uk/sports-centre/pool-timetable:
On Monday, Thursday and Friday evenings our swim school fast lane use two lanes in the swimming pool for swimming lessons from 16:00 - 18:30, and these timings for swimming lessons are also slightly extended on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings 16:00 - 19:00.
Therefore three lanes are open to members during these timings Monday - Friday.
Our student union swimming club use three lanes in the swimming pool for club training 07:30 - 09:30 on Monday mornings, and 19:00 - 21:00 on Wednesday evenings, and from 18:30 on Friday evenings, therefore two lanes are open to members during these timings.
Please read our Swimming Pool Child Admission Policy