# Site: https://www.sgul.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 482
# --------

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk:
Find out what makes us such a unique place to study and discover the vibrant student life that is at the heart of our community.
Learn more about our key research areas and our research objectives.
We are building a positive research culture at City St George's where researchers feel empowered to do their best work and develop their career.
We're putting £5.8 million of Office for Students funding towards improving facilities and equipment for our students.
A network of engineers, policymakers, industry stakeholders and social scientists, including City St George's, will take on one of the UK’s most overlooked environmental challenges: noise pollution.
Your gift to (legacy) St George’s will inspire our students, our research, and our community, and ultimately impact the patients who will benefit from the care and expertise of our graduates around the world.
Enjoy stories of impact and support from generous donations.
Applicants who have received their results but do not have a university offer can submit a Clearing application for available courses on our Tooting campus now!
Apply online or phone 0300 303 045 to speak to our Clearing Team.
City St George’s launches new brand reflecting its ambitious vision to create a higher education powerhouse in London.
Join our online webinars to discover what life at City St George’s is really like — from course insights to student experiences, it’s your chance to explore our community from wherever you are.
News and events at City St George's
Find out what's on at City St George's.
See news and events from across all our campuses.
Browser does not support script.
Our students' safety and wellbeing are incredibly important to us
Our student support pages provide useful information and advice for students about welfare and wellbeing at St George's, as well as policies, procedures and guidance to help those seeking support.
Our leading research focuses on cardiovascular science and genomics
By developing a better understanding of pathogen biology and human immune responses, we work to enhance diagnosis, prevention and treatment of infectious disease and conditions linked to immune system function.
The Population Health Research Institute measures the burden of disease in communities, explores causes of ill-health and informs policies for prevention and to improve the delivery of health care.
Our Institute of Medical and Biomedical Allied Health Education is the focus of St George's undergraduate and postgraduate medical and biomedical programmes.
Our leading research brings together neuroscience and cell biology.
City St George's, University of London (Tooting campus), Cranmer Terrace, London, SW17 0RE
© City St George's, University of London

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/home.aspx:
The For Staff pages provide a hub for staff to easily access guidance, information and support for their working life at City St George's (Tooting campus).
Learn about what support is available, groups you can join and training you can access.
Find answers to your questions around finance, human resources and the integration process.
Visit these pages to find out about how you can raise a concern and what support there is available.
As part of the transition to our newly merged institution, the way university email accounts show will automatically change from 3 March to reflect the new university name.
17 February 2025
11 February 2025

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/home.aspx:
Today marks a transformative moment in UK healthcare as the General Medical Council (GMC) expands its role to include the regulation of Physician Associates (PAs) and Anaesthesia Associates (AAs).
16 December 2024
Dr Diana Beech will lead public policy institute focussed on translating interdisciplinary research into solutions for real-world challenges.
12 November 2024
The Student Life Centre is open throughout the week to help with queries and problems.
We are located on the ground floor of Hunter Wing.
As well as being home to the SU bar, shop, music room and dance studios, we have over 100 clubs and societies that keep students busy at St George's.
Use our online form to report a case of bullying and harassment at St George's.
Read our guides and information on healthy living, occupational health, mental health, personal safety and emergencies.
Read our guides to fees, student loans, funding and other financial advice for students.
Our library offers a wide range of books, e-books, academic journals and other resources to support learning and teaching.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/home.aspx:
The Development and Alumni team are here to help you stay connected to City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
Membership to the School's alumni community is free and automatic upon graduation, and makes it easy for you to stay connected with friends, opportunities, and with what’s going on – and for you to enjoy the benefits of an affiliation with City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
Whether supporting students, enabling education or facilitating research, a gift to (legacy) St George's will make a difference, not just to our community, but to patients across the world.
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) graduates are entitled to a range of exclusive services, benefits and discounts from the university and our partners.
Download our brochure to find out more.
Graduates from City St George’s have lifelong access to support from the careers service after graduation.
Find out more.
Graduate Outcomes is a national survey of all graduates, which takes place 15 months after you complete your course and helps inform prospective students about career prospects.
Volunteering is a great way to stay connected with City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) while giving something of real value back to support the students following in your footsteps.
Update your contact details with us, reconnect with old friends or register your interest in attending or organising a reunion.
Find out more about the City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) Alumni and Development team.
View our upcoming alumni events, or get help with organising a reunion.
Learn more about the groundbreaking work of our esteemed alumni, from the father of modern surgery, John Hunter, to present day.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study:
Find out more about our leading undergraduate courses and how to apply.
Learn more about our postgraduate courses, scholarships and research facilities.
Read about our professional degrees, academic training programmes, short courses and more.
Degree apprenticeships at City St George's, University of London combine on-the-job training with study for a higher qualification, helping progress an apprentice’s career and give employers the highly skilled and knowledgeable workforce a business needs.
Learn how we are working to provide the opportunity of higher education to all students who can benefit from it.
The information and advice on these pages are designed to guide you through the required steps before enrolment and prepare you for student life.
Everything postgraduate and undergraduate students need to know before arriving at  City St George's.
Learn about our summer school as well as how you could spend part of your studies in another country.
Explore all the unique advantages that make City St George's the perfect place for your studies.
Explore useful resources and facilities available at City St George's and beyond.
Explore our range of webinars, open days, and special events designed just for offer holders.
By registering at City St George’s, you are accepting our terms and conditions which include our regulations and policies.
Learn more here.
Explore the ways to get in touch with us.
Find out what makes us unique, learn more about our programmes and how you can apply to study with us, and discover the vibrant student life that is at the heart of our community.
Read more
As well as being home to the SU bar, shop, music room and dance studios, we have over 100 clubs and societies that keep students busy while here at St George’s.
Learn more about our students' union
Close to local transport and with everything you’d expect from modern student housing, Horton Halls is the perfect place to create your home away from home.
See inside Horton Halls
The Students’ Union organises events and allows students to create societies dedicated to sports, cultures or specialisms.
Join one of our societies today
Courses here are rigorous but we pride ourselves on the personal support we provide students.
Find out more
St George's welcomes mature students on all our courses.
In fact, many are designed to help people, like you, access new careers.
Read more about the support we offer

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses:
Here are the courses we offer from the Tooting campus of City St George's, University of London.
Visit the main City St George's website for details of all the courses we offer across all our campuses.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study:
Explore our list of undergraduate courses that we offer from our Tooting campus.
Find out what makes our campus a unique place to study.
If you want to specialise in health sciences, then this is the place to build your career.
Information on how to apply, entry criteria and extenuating circumstances for our undergraduate courses.
University league tables can be used to help with this process of choosing which university to attend for your undergraduate degree.
Resources and tips for studying in the UK.
A guide to applying for medical electives during your studies.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/explore-st-georges:
Here at City St George’s, we’ve been improving health for over 250 years.
We have an outstanding record of research and innovation; our alumni include Edward Jenner, pioneer of the smallpox vaccine, and recent research has focused on tackling Covid-19.
Our students benefit from our shared site with St George’s Hospital, which means students are immersed in a professional environment whilst learning from practicing clinicians working on the frontline.
We welcome students from around the world who share our passion for health, medicine and science.
Read more below and learn about what makes us such a unique institution.
If you're looking to start your studies in 2025 or beyond, sign up for our intro email series by filling in your details by  clicking the button below.
We’ll then keep you in the loop with the latest updates, information about upcoming events and more.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/international-student-support/home.aspx:
We offer support on a wide range of issues related to visas, including the new Student Route Visa, the EU Settlement Scheme and Standard Visitor Visa.
This guide provides practical pre-arrival and induction information to help students coming from outside the UK plan their move to City St George's (Tooting campus)..
Find out when induction takes place, what happens during induction week, and how to attend additional social activities and information sessions.
This section contains information for current students who have a Student visa, including working and travelling during your studies, extending your Student visa, taking a break from studies and your student immigration responsibilities.
In this section, we have highlighted further information about the immigration rules and working during your studies and the different types of work visas available after you have completed your studies, including the Graduate Route Visa.
Find out our English language requirements here.
We want you to become part of our global student community and use your experience with us to help bring transformational change around the world.
To achieve this, we have identified and developed a range of funding options.
Find out more about federal and private loans for studying at City St George's Tooting campus.
Information about the financial aid offered by the Federal and Provincial Governments for studying at City St George's (Tooting campus).

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/how-to-apply:
We offer education to all students with the necessary skills and ability, regardless of age, background or financial circumstances.
Visit our Widening Participation and Fees and Funding pages to see how we support people from different backgrounds and financial circumstances.
Applications for most of our undergraduate courses are made through UCAS, the Universities and Colleges Admissions Services.
Visit our course pages and click the link to apply for more information.
You will be asked for an institution code.
Our institution code is S49 and each of our course pages lists the appropriate course codes.
The application fee for the 2025 cycle is £28.50, to apply for upto five courses.
For more information, see the UCAS website .
We recommend that you submit your application as early as possible.
Applications must meet the deadline set by UCAS:
applications to Medicine (A100, A101): 15 October 2024 for Autumn 2025 entry; 15 October 2025 for Autumn 2026 entry.
applications to all other courses: 29 January 2025 for Autumn 2025 entry.
Many of our programmes require you to attend an interview before we are able to make you an offer.
Once we have received and assessed your UCAS application, we will send you details of any requirements if you have been selected to interview.
Interviews are an opportunity for us to find out more about you and your suitability for the course you have applied to.
They are also an opportunity for you to find out more about us and be sure that St George’s is right for you.
Find out more about our interviews
We are proud of our long history in welcoming students from all backgrounds onto our medical, health and science courses.
We are committed to a fair and transparent admissions process and regularly review our academic and non-academic entry criteria.
For the majority of our undergraduate and medicine degrees your level 3 (A Levels and equivalent) qualifications or your degree must have been completed within the last five years, including the year of application.
This does not apply to graduates who are applying for undergraduate medicine (A100).
We will consider T Levels on a case-by-case basis for the following programmes:
The T Levels considered for the above three courses are:
Whilst we typically do not accept T Levels, we will review applicants with T Levels for the following programmes:
We do not currently accept T Levels for the following programmes, but will review the situation further as T Levels become more established:
We define extenuating circumstances as unforeseen and outside of an applicant’s control.
The circumstances must demonstrate that there has been a substantial, serious impact on your academic studies and results.
Extenuating circumstances could be related to health, personal challenges or disability.
We are unable to consider extenuating circumstances in relation to UCAT or GAMSAT scores, or interview performance.
A successful extenuating circumstances application will not result in us accepting applicants who have not met our minimum entry requirements.
Instead, applicants who have re-sat or extended the length of their qualifications (or we advise to do so) will be permitted to apply for their chosen course.
For this reason, we only accept extenuating circumstances applications for our A100 Medicine (5-year) programme.
This is because other courses consider applicants who are re-sitting, or have re-sat, their level 3 qualifications.
Submit the Extenuating Circumstances Application Form (PDF) to admissions@sgul.ac.uk by no later than 10 September , with the subject line: 'Extenuating Circumstances Application - Your Name - Course Name'.
Along with the form, submit supporting documentation as outlined below.
Applicants will receive the outcome of their application by 8 October .
Along with your form, please attach relevant documentation.
We require a letter/email from your school,  detailing any support that was provided to you at the time of the extenuating circumstances.
Additionally, we may require a letter from your GP/hospital, police force, correspondance with exam boards, or a death certificate, depending on the circumstances.
Please see further information on the Extenuating Circumstances Form (PDF).
Please note that appropriate circumstances would be:
Guidance and information on visas, settlement schemes, enrolment and more.
Learn more about what to expect and how to prepare for your MMI.
Read our guidance on preparing a strong application for a course at St George's.
Further information about applying is included on each course page, including a UCAS checklist.
If you have any further questions, please contact our Tooting Campus Course Enquiries Team.
Telephone: +44 (0)20 3897 2032 (lines open Monday to Friday 10am-12pm, 2pm-4pm).
Email: study@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/information-for-parents-and-supporters:
Leaving school or college is a big milestone for young people and although it can be an exciting time as they take the next step in their lives, it can also cause apprehension.
We are aware that students who are considering applying to start university in 2025 or 2026 may be particularly concerned as a result of the uncertainty caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
To help alleviate some of these concerns, we will endeavour to provide as much certainty for applicants as possible throughout the application process.
All students applying to study an undergraduate course in the UK must apply through a central online application portal , which is managed by the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Encourage them to research universities and courses online via the UCAS website and individual university websites.
Whilst it may not be possible to hold large scale, in-person events such as Open Days, many universities have information available digitally.
At City St George’s, we have put together a prospective student information hub called Explore City St George’s , which has lots of useful information and advice in one place, including our guidance on how to make your application stand out and what to do about work experience.
All our online events, including webinars, social media Q&As and virtual fairs, can be found on our event listings page, and opportunities to visit our campus are published published here when available.
Many universities are running virtual events too, which students can attend from the comfort of their own home.
For example, at City St George’s we run a series of webinars, with sessions on applying to medicine, applying to healthcare courses and work experience.
We also have a campus tour video which shows some of our exciting teaching, learning and social spaces.
Encourage them to get familiar with the UCAS process, key dates and decision deadlines – it’s important that students regularly check their emails and promptly complete forms, as there are important deadlines, for example for student finance and accommodation.
There is a wealth of information available for parents and supporters on the UCAS website .
Applications to City St George’s undergraduate courses must be made via UCAS and there are two main deadlines for students who wish to start their course in autumn 2025.
Currently these are: 15 October 2021 for Medicine and 26 January 2022 for all other undergraduate courses.
Beyond the January date, some courses may stay open for further applications, but consideration is not guaranteed.
If you are supporting an applicant who has not received any offers, or decides later in the year to submit a UCAS application, then Clearing may provide another opportunity to apply.
If students have any queries about courses on offer, entry requirements or what it’s like studying at a specific university, encourage them to contact the university’s recruitment or admissions teams about their application.
At City St George’s, our friendly course enquiries team can be contacted via email study@sgul.org.uk or via our phone line on 020 3897 2032.
Prospective students can also chat online to some of our current students via the Unibuddy service .
Our Student Finance Team are on hand to provide help to students to ensure that finance is no barrier to them starting or continuing their studies.
Eligible students can apply for a repayable loan to cover the costs of their tuition fees and living costs.
Non-repayable bursaries and grants are also available for students from lower-income households and/or care-experienced students.
Any student in financial hardship can also apply for additional support from our hardship fund.
For some courses, NHS bursaries and help towards costs of travelling to placements might also be available.
All our staff and students are dedicated to making a difference to society.
Our courses are academically rigorous, but we pride ourselves on the personalised support and advice we offer students throughout their time with us.
Our Student Services Team offer comprehensive support to students throughout their time at City St George’s.
The Student Life Centre is open throughout the week and is a one-stop shop for all student queries via email, telephone and in person.
All students are also allocated an academic who acts as their Personal Tutor when they arrive, and they are the student’s first port of call for any help or advice.
Our students can access a wide range of support services, such as the disability service , careers team , and counselling service .
Our Students’ Union also offers welfare and wellbeing support to students through a dedicated Student Welfare Officer and peer-to-peer activities, such as Self-Care Week.
Our advisors, based in the Student Life Centre, are here to support any student or potential student with a disability or specific needs.
We offer flexible and personalised campus visits for prospective care leaver students.
Our Students’ Union organises events and allows students to create societies dedicated to sports, cultures or specialisms.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/fees-and-financial-support:
Loans and bursaries are available to support eligible students' university tuition fees and living costs.
You will not have to repay your student loan until after you leave the course and your income is over the threshold amount for your repayment plan.
The income thresholds are subject to change.
Please visit the Gov.uk website for full details.
You annual tuition fees will depend on whether you are a home or international student and what course you will be studing.
St George's undergraduate fee for UK students in £9,535 for the 2025/26 academic year.
This is in line with the Government's announcement on the fee cap increase (subject to the passing of secondary legislation).
The fee for each subsequent year of study may also increase in line with government policy and we will confirm any such increase with you directly as and when the fee is confirmed.
Tuition fees for internaional students and all postgraduate courses vary.
You will find information about tuition fees on the summary page for each of our courses .
Home students will not usually need to pay the undergraduate tuition fees up front as non-means tested tuition fee loans are available from Student Finance England .
All students should check their eligibility for financial support with the relevant funding provider(s) in advance of joining their course.
To cover the costs of studying, eligible undergraduate students can apply for:
Please visit our Student loans page for more information.
MBBS students in an NHS bursary-funded year of study can also apply for a non-income assessed reduced rate maintenance loan from Student Finance England.
You will not have to start paying back your undergraduate student loans until after you leave the course and your income is over the threshold for your repayment plan.
Repayment is based on what you earn, not what you owe, and all outstanding debt will be written off after a repayment term of 40 years (this repayment term is subject to change).
Please visit the GOV.uk website for further details.
Students from lower income households who are undertaking their first undergraduate degree, and are eligible for support from Student Finance England, may also be eligible for our University bursary, the St George’s Opportunity Fund Grant .
Please visit our Grants and Bursaries page for more details.
You do not have to pay back grants, scholarships or bursaries.
Please note that UK students on the St George’s, University of London programme at the University of Nicosia are not eligible for funding from Student Finance England or NHS Student Bursaries.
The later year(s) of our 4 and 5 year Medicine programmes are also supported by NHS Student Bursaries, who currently provide a non-means tested partial or full tuition fee grant to eligible students.
The NHS support available differs depending on the course studied so please see our NHS-funded degrees page for further details.
Please note that graduate students undertaking the 5-year undergraduate Medicine course will not be eligible for the tuition fee loan from Student Finance England and will need to self-fund the first 4 years’ tuition fees.
Different rules apply to the 4-year graduate entry Medicine course .
Learn how to pay your tuition or halls fees.
Learn more about the additional funding available to support your living and course costs.
Our Medicine MBBS programmes are supported by NHS Student Bursaries.
Guides and information for managing your student loan.
Here you can find all the latest information, support and guidance available to St George’s students affected by the rising cost of living.
Depending on your chosen course there may be extra costs you need to consider when planning your studies.
Find out how to access discounts on travel, tourist attractions and entertainment as a student in London.
Explore the tools available for contacting us, when facing difficulties paying your tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/additional-course-related-costs:
Depending on your chosen course there may be extra costs you need to consider when planning your studies which are not covered by tuition fees.
Tuition fees cover the cost of your teaching, assessment, and operating University facilities such as the library, IT equipment and other support services.
Accommodation and living costs such as childcare are not included in tuition fees.
Below is a list of general costs you should consider alongside your studies.
Our libraries are a valuable resource with an extensive collection of books and journals as well as first-class facilities and IT equipment.
You may prefer to, or be required to, buy your own copy of key books.
If incurred, you will need to pay any library fines.
You will also need to pay for any stationery you require for your course.
We make every effort to highlight where a course has additional expenses.
These may include security checks such as DBS, equipment, uniforms, specialist clothing or professional memberships and are highlighted on individual course pages.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/medical-electives:
We run an elective programme for medical students in their penultimate or final year of study interested in a clinical placement at St George's Hospital.
These placements give you the opportunity to explore a particular medical specialty in a different healthcare environment as part of your degree.
Our elective placements are four weeks long and start on the first Monday of the month .
The elective programme opens for applications twice a year.
Applications need to be submitted either in May or November depending on when you would like to start your elective:
For example, if you would like to attend an elective in April 2026, you would apply in November 2025.
Please note: The application round is for applicants to complete the online application form and make the payment required.
Application attempts made outside of these times or arranged with any consultant or academic without making an application will not be considered.
If you have already approached an individual, you can mention this on your application.
We offer a wide range of elective opportunities at St George’s, a teaching hospital which provides both local secondary level care and regional specialist care.
You are eligible to apply to a medical elective if you meet all of the following criteria:
Complete the Speciality Selection form (link available when applications open).
You can select your speciality(s) from the list below (subject to change):
Pay the application fee via our online shop (link available when applications open).
The application fee is non-refundable.
More information can be found under the heading ‘Cost’ below.
Ask your university to complete the Medical Elective Verification form (PDF) .
This form includes certifying your passport.
Please ensure you take the original copy and the photocopy you will upload to your application with you when this form is completed.
This form also asks your current institution to confirm that you have completed a police check (DBS) and have Occupational Health clearance as part of your current programme of study.
Gather the following documentation:
Complete the online application form (link available when applications open).
before the end of the application round.
Please feel free to leave the personal statement and reference sections blank as you will have completed a personal statement as part of the specialism selection form (Step 1).
Please note, a ll documents above must be attached to your application form.
Once you have applied, we anticipate communicating our decision to you within 8 weeks.
Week 1
Week 2
Week 3 to 6
Week 7 to 10
Application round open and applications received.
Applications reviewed by  the University
Applications reviewed by St George’s Hospital.
Decisions processed and applicants informed via email.
Applications are reviewed by both City St George’s, University of London, and St George’s Hospital.
St George’s Hospital makes selections based on your personal statement and in line with how many placements each speciality has to offer each month.
We make every effort to accept as many elective students as possible, but we cannot guarantee that your application will be successful.
Applications are reviewed in the order received on a first come first served basis for the speciality in question.
Elective placements cost £800 which covers the administration costs of your admission (application fee), and your time spent at St George's Hospital (placement fee).
To pay the application fee, follow the link to our online shop which can be found under 'How to apply' when the application round is open.
Your placement fee is not due to be paid unless you have been accepted onto an elective.
A second link to our online shop will be included in your offer letter.
Administration fee
Placement fee
Total cost
£400
£400 (£100 per week)
£800
To be paid when applying
To be paid if accepted
All medical elective student must meet our English Language requirement in one of the following ways:
The School of Health and Medical Sciences shares its site with a hospital.
I really appreciated this feature because it allows students to immerse themselves in the hospital environment right from the early years of their education.
I had the chance to observe patients with rare syndromes I had never encountered before.
- Bianca Borsato from Italy
The consultants and registrars I shadowed were always very eager to teach me.
I also had the chance to attend some of the multidisciplinary teams meetings, which were a great way to see how the NHS works and how healthcare professionals can work together in the best interest of the patient.
- Thiago Schneider Martins from Brazil
It was a fascinating experience to learn about the differences in healthcare provision.
Being placed in an environment with entirely different cultures has made me more aware of who I am relative to others and has provided an opportunity for deep self-discovery.
This amazing experience will shape my future.
- Yoshiho Sakamoto from Japan
Click each question below to reveal the answer beneath.
Elective placements are open to medical students in their penultimate or final year of study only.
If you do not meet these criteria and would like to visit City St George’s, University of London, you could consider attending as an Erasmus student.
You can submit one application at a time, in which you are asked for your first and second choice of specialism.
Elective placements are four weeks long and can not be shared across specialties.
No.
St George’s Hospital makes selections based on your personal statement and in line with how many placements each speciality has to offer at the time you wish to attend.
If you are not a British national and do not already hold immigration permission which permits study in the UK, you should apply for the Standard Visitor Visa to undertake the elective placement at City St George's.
Read more information on visas .
We have a limited number of rooms reserved for elective students in Horton Halls, City St George’s halls of residence .
Accommodation is allocated on a first come first served basis and cannot be guaranteed.
More information on how and when to apply will be sent to you if you are accepted onto a placement.
If you have any questions about applying for an elective placement, please contact the Electives Team .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/prospectus-download/undergraduate-prospectus.aspx:
Download our undergraduate prospectus to find out about undergraduate life and study at City St George’s.
Learn about our courses, innovative teaching style, facilities, student support and how to apply.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study:
We’ve been improving health for over 250 years.
Our wide array of postgraduate health degrees provide you with the skills and experience you need to take the next step in your career.
Whether you’re a recent university graduate, a medical student who wishes to intercalate, or a professional looking to pursue further study, you will want to consider studying at the UK’s specialist health university and joining a community that is making a difference.
If you're looking to start your postgraduate studies in 2025 or beyond, sign up for our introductory newsletter to receive more information about student life at City St George’s (Tooting campus).
View our specialised postgraduate health courses designed to enhance your career.
Discover our exciting research degree programmes and the doctoral experience at City St George's.
We offer you the opportunity to take a year out of your medical programme to undertake a Master's degree.
Join our virtual webinars to hear more about our specialised health and science degrees.
Hear from our students and alumni about what it's really like to study at the UK's specialist health university.
If you want to specialise in health sciences, then City St George's is the place to build your career.
Learn more about tuition fees and funding options for postgraduate study.
We offer a wide range of academic support and student services during your studies.
We provide excellent professional study and research facilities to help you reach your potential.
From your first enquiry to your last day as an international student, you'll get all the help and advice you need.
Learn more about the application process and how to apply for postgraduate courses at City St George's.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/explore-st-georges:
We offer a wide array of postgraduate courses, from the exploration of global health challenges to the study of antimicrobial resistance, to provide you with the skills and experience you need to take the next step in your career.
Whether you’re a recent university graduate, a current student who wishes to intercalate, or a professional looking to pursue further study, you will want to consider progressing your career with City St George's.
By studying with us, you will join a passionate community that is making a difference.
If you're looking to start your postgraduate studies in 2025 or beyond, sign up for our introductory newsletter and receive more information about student life at City St George’s (Tooting campus).

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/research-degrees:
City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) is an exciting place to undertake a research degree.
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF), a national assessment of research at UK universities, 100% of our research impact cases were recognised as internationally excellent or world leading.
In addition to subject specific training, a wide ranging core training programme is undertaken by our research students in order to support the acquisition of generic research skills and provide opportunities for peer-group support.
Watch the recording of our Research Degree Open Evening to learn more about our research degrees and doctoral experience.
PhD candidates normally register for an MPhil in the first instance and must pass a formal examination normally 9 to 12 months after registration before transferring onto a PhD programme.
You will undertake a research project under the continued guidance of at least two supervisors, one of whom is based at City St George's.
The minimum period of study for a PhD is two calendar years of full time study or the equivalent in part time study.
A PhD thesis should consist of an account of your own investigations, form a distinct contribution to the knowledge of the subject and afford evidence of originality by the discovery of new facts and/or by the exercise of independent critical power.
You should normally have, or expect to obtain, at least a second class honours degree or MSc in an appropriate discipline before applying.
The PhTea Break podcast is a creation from the PhD community at our Tooting campus.
In each episode members of the community discuss their research projects with a non-scientific audience in mind, and share their experiences of being a PhD student.
The MD(Res) degree is designed for practising clinicians with a medical qualification and who are registered with the General Medical Council.
It can be studied full time (minimum registration period – one year) or part time (minimum registration period – two years and students are normally expected to spend at least eight session a week on research).
Your appointed supervisors will guide you for the length of registration and your thesis should deal with any branch of medicine, surgery or medical or dental science.
You can use the FindAPhD website to search for the right course for you.
Research at our Tooting campus is conducted within our research institutes (see table below), each of which has academic staff responsible for postgraduate research students.
They can offer you help and guidance in finding a suitable supervisor.
Professor Atticus Hainsworth (MPhil/PhD students)
Dr Bridget Bax (MPhil/PhD students)
Professor Michel Papadakis (MD(Res) students)
Dr Kai Hilpert (MPhil/PhD students)
Professor Derek Macallan (MD(Res) students)
Professor Julia Critchley (MPhil/PhD students)
Dr James Erskine (MPhil/PhD students)
Dr Florencia Cavodeassi (MPhil/PhD students)
Professor Michael Papadakis (MD(Res) students)
If you have any further questions, please contact the Programme Manager (Research Degrees) on +44 (0)20 8725 0191 or you can email researchdegrees@sgul.ac.uk .
Your proposed supervisor will guide you through the application process and will provide you with the application form at the appropriate time.
Information about research degree fees can be found in our salaries and fees 2025 to 2026 document (PDF).
The City St George's PhD programme offers up to four studentships per year, and each studentship has a three year duration.
Students will be provided with world-class expertise in areas of strategic importance to UK and global medical research.
Learn more about the PhD programme
The London Intercollegiate Doctoral Training Partnership (MRC LID) is a partnership between City St George’s, University of London (CSGUL) and London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC).
MRC LID brings together two outstanding specialist schools to provide integrated skills training to develop a cohort of biomedical and public health scientists.
The themes for studentship awards cover:
Further details about entry criteria and the application process can be found on the MRC LID website
The Africa Health Research Training programme (CREATE) is a partnership between London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) and four other UK universities – Brighton and Sussex Medical School (BSMS), Kings College London (KCL), Queen Mary University of London (QMUL), and City St George’s, University of London (CSGUL), as well as six African Partner Institutions – Biomedical Research and Training Institute (BRTI, Zimbabwe), Zvitambo Institute for Maternal and Child Health Research (Zimbabwe), Medical Research Council Gambia (MRCG), Medical Research Council Uganda (MRCU), Centre for Innovative Drug Development and Therapeutic Trials for Africa (CDT-Africa, Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia), Zambart (Zambia).
This Wellcome Trust funded Programme is focusing on funding up to 5 PhD Fellowships per year, for 5 years and runs from 2022 to 2027 and will fund 25 Fellowships in total.
It is open to early career healthcare professionals that have a focus on improving health and wellbeing in Africa.
Applications from nurses, midwives, and allied health professionals (NMAHPs) are actively encouraged.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/intercalated-degrees:
Intercalation involves taking out a year out of a Medicine programme to undertake an additional degree (either undergraduate or postgraduate).
It is an exciting opportunity for current medical students to expand their skillset and knowledge by studying a specific area of interest.
At City St George’s, University of London, we currently offer several postgraduate courses for intercalation which are available for current medical students.
We offer five postgraduate courses from our Tooting campus that students can intercalate on:
“I decided to do my intercalation, especially for the MSc in Global Health, because of the specialist pathways available.
I didn’t see many other courses providing that flexibility.
I love this course so much.
The discussions in modules and the support from the academics has made this year such an incredible experience.
I completely recommend it!” - Fejiro Okagbare, Intercalating Global Health MSc student
Read more about Fejiro's experience in her blog; What I wish I knew before my Intercalated Masters at St George's .
You would apply by submitting a normal application for a Master's via the specific course page.
However, you would need to indicate in your application that you are a medical student seeking to complete an intercalated Master's and you would need to stipulate how many years of your medical degree you will have completed prior to beginning the course.
You would be required to take permission from your medical programme, so early applications are highly recommended.
Applications typically open in early November.
We offer several postgraduate taught scholarships at the City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
There is no separate application process to apply.
If you are a Home or International applicant applying for a taught postgraduate course which has a scholarship, you will be automatically considered for the scholarship, provided you submit your course application by the deadline.
Applicants may also be eligible for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan from the UK Government to assist with costs.
Please note, this may affect future funding entitlement from SFE (due to an equivalent level qualification rule).
Additional information on financial support available for intercalated degrees can be found on the Royal Medical Benevolent Fund website .
If you have any further enquiries related to intercalated degrees, please contact our course enquiries team by emailing pgenquiries@sgul.ac.uk or giving us a ring on 020 3897 2032 (Mon - Fri, 10am - 12pm and 2pm - 4pm).

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/postgraduate-scholarships:
We offer a number of scholarships for outstanding students wishing to study a postgraduate course on our Tooting campus.
We are dedicated to transforming people’s lives in the UK and around the world.
The tabs below give details of each of the postgraduate scholarships we offer.
4
£3,000
Paid as a tuition-fee discount
All applicants (see eligibility criteria below)
1
£12,000
Full Tuition Fees, plus £17,000 maintenance grant for living expenses.
Scholarship with stipend
International applicants only, from a low-income, lower-middle-income or upper-middle country as defined by the World Bank.
(see eligibility criteria below)
£10,000
Paid as a tution-fee discount.
Sponsored by Lupin Healthcare
Home/UK applicants only
Multiple
Full and partial fee scholarships (sponsored by pharmaceutical partners)
7
If you are a Home or International applicant applying for a taught postgraduate Master’s course which has a scholarship, you will be automatically considered for the scholarship, provided you submit your course application by the deadline below.
You must ensure your course application is completed and submitted by the deadline in order to be considered.
This means your application must contain all relevant supporting documentation required by the programme applied to, such as your references contact detail, transcripts, and English language test results.
Your referees will be contacted at the point of submission, so we encourage you to apply before the deadline in order for us to obtain your references in time.
Alternatively, you will need to request for your referees to complete their reference for you on the same day as you submit your application.
If you haven't heard about your scholarship application by 1 July 2025 then unfortunately your application has been unsuccessful.
Deadline: 29 January 2025 (applications now closed)
Courses:
For these courses you will be invited to an in-person or virtual interview (MMI), which will form part of the scholarship criteria (see Eligibility and Assessment Criteria below).
Deadline:
For some of these courses you may be invited to an in-person or virtual panel interview, which will form part of the scholarship criteria (see Eligibility and Assessment Criteria below).
The following sections set out the eligibility for our scholarships, as well as how applicants will be assessed.
To be eligible for a scholarship you must:
Have made an application for a postgraduate Master’s course, either full-time or part-time study, by the deadlines stated above
Not already be qualified at a Master’s level or above (e.g.
PhD)
Be self-funding your course fees or in receipt of a tuition fee loan (courses funded by the NHS or students receiving employer or sponsor funding are not eligible)
Have, or be predicted, a 2:1 or above or international equivalent
The Scholarship Committees will consider and score each application based on your:
Degree classification
Personal statement
References
Interview (where there is one)
The scholarship funds are paid as a partial or full (depending on your course) reduction in your tuition fee.
For example, if your Master’s fee is £15,000 and the scholarship amount is £3,000 - then your tuition fee will be reduced to £12,000.
You need to have applied for one of our taught postgraduate courses by the deadline above
If interviews take place they will be held between February and June 2025
Successful applicants will be contacted approximately 4 weeks after the application deadline.
If you haven’t heard about your application by 1 July 2025 then unfortunately your application has been unsuccessful.
In partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign, we are offering one scholarship to students from India applying for postgraduate courses.
To find out more, including eligibility criteria and how to apply, please visit our GREAT Scholarship webpage .
This video tells the story of Sehr, who was awarded our International Health Scholarship.
The following stories are from some of our current scholars:
Read more from Sedji Basoah-Acolatse, Physician Associate Studies MPAS scholarship recipient.
Read more from Rachel Mahony, Global Health, Ethics and Law MSc scholarship recipient.
Read more from Tran Thi Kieu Oanh, Biomedical Science – Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer MRes scholarship recipient.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/postgraduate-support:
If you choose to study here at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus), you will work and learn alongside people who share your passion for health and science.
Our postgraduate courses are rigorous but we pride ourselves on the personal support we provide to help our students fulfil their potential.
Our Graduate School supports and enhances postgraduate study by:
You will also have access to our pastoral and practical support services which encompass:
Learn more about our support services for students.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/how-to-apply:
Before starting your application, check the entry criteria on the course page of the course you wish to apply for to ensure you meet the required standards.
Most of our courses follow the standard application process below.
Courses which do not fall under the standard application process are explained individually at the bottom of the page.
All applications must be submitted through our online application system.
All courses require a personal statement to be submitted within the online application.
When completing your application, you will be asked to provide contact details of two referees.
Please ensure these details are accurate, and that you have informed your referees that we will be in touch.
As soon as you have submitted your application, your referees will be contacted by the university asking them to upload a reference to your online application.
One must be a recent academic reference, the other should be either a second academic reference or a professional/employer reference.
They should outline your suitability for the course and your academic ability.
Your referees should know you well enough, in an official capacity, to write about you and your suitability for higher education.
We do not accept references from family, friends, partners, or yourself.
We will send reminder emails to your referees, but it is your responsibility to ensure that contact details are correct and that referees are available to submit a reference.
References should be uploaded within two weeks of making your application.
Please ensure that you complete all sections and that the information you provide is accurate.
Once you have checked that your application is complete and accurate, click ‘submit’.
You can log in and track the progress of your application through your applicant portal .
We suggest you add pgadmissions@sgul.ac.uk to your address book to ensure you do not miss any important emails from us.
You might also receive some emails from admissions@sgul.ac.uk , or individual members of City St George’s staff using @citystgeorges.ac.uk or @sgul.ac.uk email addresses.
Our standard application deadlines are below, however please note that some courses will have an earlier deadline.
Please check the relevant course page for the confirmed deadline.
*For those requiring a visa to study in the UK, we recommend applying as early as possible.
If you are applying to study a single module, please visit the ‘Apply’ section of the relevant course page using the links above.
Some of our courses require applications to be submitted via UCAS.
Apply via UCAS by clicking the ‘Apply via UCAS’ button on the course page .
Apply via UCAS by clicking the ‘Apply via UCAS’ button on the course page .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/fees-and-financial-support:
There are a range of funding opportunities available to postgraduate students designed to contribute to tuition fees and assist with the cost of living while you are studying.
You will find tuition fees listed on the ‘Fees and funding’ tab of each course page .
All students are advised to check their eligibility for financial support with the relevant funding provider(s).
Tuition fees are charged for each year of your course (unless stated).
Fees for second and subsequent years are likely to increase annually in line with UK inflation as measured by the Retail Price Index (RPI-X).
They will not normally increase by more than 5 per cent each year, except when the rate of inflation is significantly more than that projected in the preceding year.
To assist with course fees and living costs, eligible students can apply for:
You do not have to repay grants, scholarships or bursaries.
The Postgraduate Master’s Loan is designed to be a contribution towards the costs associated with undertaking a Master’s course.
Eligible students can apply for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan of up to £12,471 for the course to help towards tuition fees and living costs.
The funding, available through Student Finance England, may also be available to students who are completing an intercalated year at Master's level.
You do not have to start repaying this loan until your income is over the threshold amount for your repayment plan.
View eligibility requirements .
Please note that if you are studying Occpuational Therapy (Pre-registration) MSc or Physiotherapy (Pre-registration) MSc you should apply for the undergraduate package of student finance and the NHS Learning Support Fund (more details below).
If you have a disability, long-term health condition, mental health condition or specific learning difficulty (for example dyslexia) you may be eligible to apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) .
Eligible students can receive DSA on top of any other student finance received.
DSA is non-income assessed and does not need to be repaid.
DSA can get help with the cost of:
There are a number of scholarship opportunities available to postgraduate students.
Please see our dedicated postgraduate scholarships page for more information.
We are delighted to offer St George’s alumni a tuition fee discount of 10% on our courses.
Those students who secure a scholarship are able to apply the discount to any remaining tuition.
To be eligible for an alumni discount you must:
The NHS Learning Support Fund provides financial support to eligible students undertaking pre-registration courses at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Eligible Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration) MSc and Physiotherapy (Pre-registration) MSc students can apply for:
Below are various sources of scholarships and bursaries available from external organisations for postgraduate study:
Here you can find all the latest information, support and guidance available to City St George’s students affected by the rising cost of living.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/research-facilities:
We provide professional study and research facilities to support your study and help you reach your potential.
At our shared Advanced Patient Simulation Centre we train 3,000 students and healthcare workers a year.
Hi-tech, computer-controlled manikins accurately replicate a range of medical conditions, including heart failure and lung problems.
The Anatomy Suite is where present and future healthcare professionals and scientists in the hospital and University learn or expand on their anatomy knowledge directly from the human body, through access to high quality anatomy resources.
These include plastinated (preserved) specimens, osteological materials, anatomical models and digital/imaging resources such as Anatomage tables and Complete Anatomy.
Run jointly with our partner St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, the Clinical Research Facility is a custom-built centre that provides physical facilities and nursing and administrative support to facilitate high-quality research and clinical trials.
The facility is open for use by University and trust staff, as well as students and other organisations.
The Imaging Resource Facility (IRF) provides state-of-the-art advanced bio-imaging technology.
Its facilities are:
The IRF also provides training with scientific and technical support.
Our healthcare and biomedical collection comprises more than 42,000 books, ebooks and multimedia resources.
We subscribe to more than 10,000 journals, mostly electronic, and a wide variety of medical and healthcare databases.
If you would like to brush up on your information-finding skills, we run regular, free courses on information literacy.
The library is open 24/7 with silent study, group study and social learning spaces available.
The library is also conveniently located near to the IT suites and within easy access of our teaching rooms and lecture theatres.
We have six computer suites housing 250 workstations, some of which have 24 hour access.
In every room in our halls of residence there is access to the internet and to our academic network.
There is wireless network access in all common areas, and a virtual patient app created by our e-learning unit means you can use your tablet or smartphone to test yourself on the move.
If you need it, support from the IT department is available, and we can train you to use the email system and other IT services.
The library runs excellent training courses and it’s easy to access our virtual learning environment, Moodle, where you’ll find course materials, feedback and discussion boards.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/prospectus-download/postgraduate-prospectus.aspx:
Download our prospectus to find out about postgraduate life and study at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus).

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education:
St George's offers unparalleled professional development opportunities for healthcare professionals seeking to elevate their careers.
Our rigorous programs, meticulously crafted by leading experts in the field, are designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills necessary to excel in today's dynamic healthcare landscape.
Don't settle for anything less.
Choose St George's for the ultimate professional development experience.
We offer a range of degrees aimed at professionals looking to enhance their career.
Our short courses have been created in collaboration with leading scientists and clinicians operating in the NHS.
We offer a variety of leading pathways for clinical academics.
We have partnered with FutureLearn to offer a number of online courses, designed and delivered by experts in the field.
Learn more about our clinical teaching fellows centrally involved in providing core medical education to our students.
See which individual modules can be taken as standalone courses of study and how you can take part.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses:
City St Georges, University of London (formerly, St.
George's, University of London) is a well-established institution with a strong 250 year history.
It is the UK’s only university dedicated to medical and health sciences education, training and research.
Our Professional Education portfolio aims to develop people who meet today’s healthcare needs and tomorrow’s healthcare challenges.
For information on sponsoring our courses, please enquire via pec@sgul.ac.uk .
For information on developing a short course, please view please view here .
Professional Education Centre St George's, University of London Cranmer Terrace London SW17 0RE pec@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/moocs:
We have partnered with FutureLearn to offer a number of online courses referred to as Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs).
These courses have been designed and delivered by experts in the field.
The courses are aimed at students to healthcare professionals looking for CPD.
St George’s students and staff are eligible for free upgrades to a collection of courses through FutureLearn Campus including all of our own MOOCs below.
To explore courses within FutureLearn Campus click here and sign in using your ‘@sgul.ac.uk’ email address.
More details on each MOOC can be found by clicking on the course below.
Discover the academic writing fundamentals to help you achieve success in your healthcare-related undergraduate degree.
Learn how to better manage COVID-19 patients in African primary care settings where patients' attendance is down due to COVID-19
Learn how design thinking can be applied in health and social care settings to drive innovation and approach challenges in this course co-created with Howdu design consultancy.
Learn how to critically appraise published medical research literature to keep up with research developments in your field.
Discover the difference empathy can make to patient care, and improve your own clinical empathy.
Understand the principles of electrocardiology and learn a step-by-step approach to the ECG test, in this course created with the Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education.
Explore genetics and genomics in maternity healthcare and apply principles to provide high quality care.
Get an introduction to the growing role of genomics in healthcare for patient diagnoses, treatment and disease prevention in this course co-created with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Learn how molecular genetic techniques are used to identify the genetic factors that contribute to the development of disease in this postgraduate level course.
Understand new and established genomic sequencing technologies, and how to apply them in clinical practice, in this postgraduate level course.
Explore global health governance and the challenges facing healthcare workers and policy makers.
Learn how to design MMIs and ensure their effectiveness in selecting healthcare professionals and students.
Learn the principles and language of genomic variant interpretation and enhance your working knowledge of the ACMG guidelines.
Explore the prevalence of Lyme disease, how to recognise and treat it and how to manage it going forward.
Get practical advice and support around how to respond to the novel coronavirus pandemic as a front-line healthcare professional.
Understand how to pitch innovative ideas using prototypes, and develop your skills by creating your own prototype in this course co-created with Bayer AG.
Learn how to plan a medical equipment donation to a low-resource settings that’s appropriate, sustainable, and has a real impact.
Get broad insight into the key issues surrounding Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing with this course for healthcare professionals, co-created with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Understand the key processes regarding organ donation with this course for healthcare professionals anywhere in the world, co-created with NHS Blood and Transplant.
Prepare for undertaking an International Health Elective in this course co-created with Kings College London, aimed at students in medical and healthcare disciplines.
Understand current issues in transgender healthcare and learn how to provide culturally competent care to trans individuals.
Learn how to use virtual scenarios to help people practice their decision making and prepare for real world challenges in this course co-created with partners from the WAVES network.
For staff wanting to create their own MOOC, please contact the eLearning Unit for more details.
Support and information can be found by Joining the MOOC Surgery Teams area or directly contacting the eLearning Unit .
The MOOC surgery aims to provide support to staff creating or using MOOCs in their teaching from academics who have successfully created MOOCs.
The teams area can be used to post any questions, share resources or find useful information about MOOCs.
Please join on Teams or send an email to eLearning Unit for more details.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/st-georges-academic-training:
Clinical academics are involved in making scientific discoveries which translate into a greater understanding of human health and disease.
Please check back during 2025 for clinical academic opportunities at City St George's
Find out the benefits and advantages of choosing our institution for your academic training.
No pathway needs to be followed rigidly, and it is common to take advantage of all opportunities available to you.
Discover what it is like to be a clinical academic by reading our case studies.
Read recent editions of our George's academic training newsletter.
The George's Academic Training team run a series of research training seminars aimed at St George's staff: ResearchAware.
The Specialised Foundation Programme (SFP) at St George’s provides an opportunity for foundation doctors to develop research skills in addition to the competences outlined in the Foundation Programme Curriculum.
To learn more about academic training at St George's, contact us.
This course is suitable for a wide range of healthcare professional, and is of particular relevance to doctors and allied healthcare professionals in academic training, or established clinicians who wish to develop, enhance and implement their research skills.
It will also be of benefit to healthcare educators, social care practitioners and researchers.
View all campus news View all campus events
A map of deadly infectious diseases known to attack the central nervous system of people who are already suffering with HIV has unearthed diagnosis “blank spots” in Africa.
30 January 2025
On Monday 16 December, our Physician Associate team hosted an event on our Tooting campus to recognise the launch of the GMC regulation of Physician Associates (PAs) and Anaesthesia Associates (AAs).
27 January 2025
St George’s celebrated its annual Research Day on Wednesday 11th December.
The day showcased the hard work, latest findings and achievements from the vibrant research community.
18 December 2024

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/clinical-teaching-fellows:
St George's, University of London Clinical Teaching Fellows (CTFs) are fully qualified junior doctors, centrally involved in creating, developing and delivery core clinical teaching to our medical students whilst on their clinical placements across our partner trust network.
As employees of NHS trusts, Clinical Teaching Fellows are usually based at our partner teaching hospitals.
For example, CTF roles are available at many of our partner teaching hospitals including St.
George's, Epsom & St.
Helier, Croydon, Kingston, Ashford & St.
Peter's, Frimley, East Surrey, Royal Surrey and the South West London & St.
George's Mental Health Trust to name a few.
Clinical Teaching Fellows roles are usually undertaken 'out of programme', over a 12 month period, and will normally focus on teaching undergraduate students in a particular specialty area e.g.
acute medicine, general medicine, general surgery, geriatrics, neurology, cardiology, emergency medicine, paediatric medicine, psychiatry etc.
Some partner trusts offer CTF posts that involve a split role, mixing both teaching and clinical work, that may include on-call responsibilities.
Other partner trusts offer the opportunity for CTFs to focus predominantly on undergraduate teaching and education, including curriculum design and/or research and may offer further flexibility for the CTF to develop their clinical experience in the specialty of their choice.
Working as a CTF at St George’s, University of London offers a variety of educational prospects in both teaching and assessment, with the opportunity to further develop your interest in medical education by undertaking our Higher Education Academy (HEA) accredited Postgraduate Certificate course in Healthcare and Biomedical Education.
Read more about our Clinical Teaching Fellows of the past and present.
Here's what you need to know if you're interested in developing your skills as a medical educator.
As well as leading on their own individual projects and teaching programmes at their respective trusts, our CTFs also get involved across a number of other teaching and assessment opportunities at St.
George's, University of London, including (but not limited to):
Early years (Clinical Sciences): marking reflective practice essays, helping to organise and run early years Clinical Competency Assessments (CCAs - previously OSCEs), facilitating group reflection sessions during the Early Years Clinical Experience (EYCE) attachments, clinical communication skills teaching
T (Transitional) Year: facilitating student grand rounds, running and examining Clinical Competency Assessments (CCAs - previously OSCEs), standard setting for written examinations, writing examination questions, regular small-group and bedside teaching sessions, revision sessions
P (Penultimate) Year: facilitating student grand rounds and contributing to planning and delivery of P Year examinations (both written and Clinical Competency Assessments (CCAs - previously OSCEs)), risk communication workshops, facilitating reflective practice sessions, providing mentoring and support to student repeating the year
F (Final) Year: contributing to planning and delivery of MBBS final examinations (both written and Clinical Competency Assessments (CCAs - previously OSCEs)), supporting foundation year applications and providing guidance, facilitating leadership development sessions, breaking bad news teaching, providing mentoring and support to students repeating the year
All years/other: teaching on simulation courses, interviewing prospective students
All Clinical Teaching Fellows are supported in their roles.
A detailed induction is provided at the start of the year and ongoing support is provided both locally, by our partner trust education centres, and centrally, by the St.
George's, University of London MBBS programme team.
Our Clinical Teaching Fellows join our local St.
George's CTF network which enables CTFs from all of our partner trusts to interact with each other, sharing ideas and resources and generally supporting each other in their roles.
Locally, regular CTF meetings provide additional opportunities for discussion (including with members of the MBBS academic faculty and the MBBS programme team), encouraging the sharing of good practice, useful teaching tools and resources, as well as new ideas and teaching initiatives.
Our Clinical Teaching Fellows are also encouraged to join the Academy of Medical Educators (AoME) and other educational bodies, to help facilitate national networking and to gain access to a wider range of discussions and support from like-minded CTFs and other medical educators across the UK.
All CTF postholders are invited to apply for a one-year 'Honorary Clinical Lecturer' contract with St.
George's, University of London, which covers the tenure of their CTF role.
Honorary contract queries should be directed to Education Operations Assistant, Radhika Ratra

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/standalone-modules:
Many of the modules that make up our courses can be taken as standalone modules.
This can be done to support your studies, career development or further your interests in a particular area.
Click each course title to find out more about the standalone modules that make up each course.
For details on how to apply and application deadlines, please visit the Advanced Breast Practice MSc course page .
Postgraduate clinical practice modules 2024/25
For details on how to apply and application deadlines, please visit the Advanced Clinical Practice MSc course page .
Modules starting September – November 2024
Modules starting December 2024 – January 2025
Modules starting February – April 2025
For details on how to apply and application deadlines, please visit the Genomic Medicine MSc course page .
Please visit the course pages listed above for details on how to apply and application deadlines.
If you have any questions please contact us via pgenquiries@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships:
Degree apprenticeships at City St George's, University of London (Tooting campus) combine on-the-job training with study for a higher qualification, helping progress an apprentice’s career and give employers the highly skilled and knowledgeable workforce a business needs.
We work closely with employers to help develop and retain their best talent and create programmes that address skills gaps and meet businesses goals and objectives.
We are committed to providing academic excellence for business and the professions.
Our apprenticeships are a world-class learning experience that offer genuine opportunities for career progression and provide an effective means to upskill staff and create a positive impact on an organisation’s bottom line.
Programmes are designed with businesses to be flexible, so apprentices receive the most personalised and relevant coursework and employers develop the workplace skills to increase return on investment long-term.
We are are accepting apprenticeships applications for our Level 6 Healthcare Science Practitioner programme.
Learn more about how apprenticeships are an excellent way to build the advanced skills and knowledge your workforce needs to progress and to grow your organisation successfully.
The apprenticeship levy was introduced to support businesses gain access to the advanced skills and knowledge a workforce needs to create value for organisations.
To learn more about our apprenticeships, whether you are someone looking to start an apprenticeship or a business, please contact our Apprenticeships Team about degree apprenticeships in London.
You can also check out government apprenticeships on the dedicated Gov.uk website .
Here you will find out information on how to find an apprenticeship and advice for employers on hiring an apprentice .
Available government apprenticeships are listed with details such as occupation profiles, entry requirements and professional progression.
You can also create a Gov.uk apprenticeships account to search and apply for apprenticeships.
Another useful resource is the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education which has information from occupational maps to the latest apprenticeship news.
If you would like to discuss taking a potential degree apprenticeship in London or hiring an apprentice please email apprenticeships@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/apprenticeships-information-for-businesses:
Apprenticeships are an excellent way to build the advanced skills and knowledge your workforce needs to progress and to grow your organisation successfully.
City St George’s, University of London is committed to aligning academic excellence with business and the professions.
Combining university study with paid work, business degree apprenticeships are an effective and affordable way to give employees the opportunity to gain a degree, while they receive job-specific training.
By supporting professional learning, tailored to your needs, you will give employees the competency to thrive and the ability to create value for your organisation.
St George's apprenticeships are effective as they are closely aligned with the NHS as well as professional bodies.
City St George's has the experience to manage apprenticeships and work to high apprenticeship standards.
When your employee starts an apprenticeship, you’ll have a strong partnership with City St George's to develop staff through a work-based learning programme designed to fill high level skill gaps.
The dedicated apprenticeships team at City St George's ensure you get the tailored support you need and will guide you on how to comply with and access levy funding .
They will be a regular point of contact for progress reviews ensuring apprentice satisfaction.
Apprenticeships can have a huge positive impact on organisations and when you partner with City St George's, you will work with us to develop your workforce.
Apprenticeships give employees the opportunity to earn, gain professional accreditation and acquire the right expertise your organisation needs.
The up-to-date skills apprentices learn as part of their course will help directly with the challenges in your workplace.
Expanding career-focused education for your employees means ongoing workforce development designed specifically for your objectives.
Guidance for employers about apprenticeships has been produced by the UK Government outlining why it is a high-quality and rigorous path for employees to gain the knowledge, skills and behaviours to be successful in today’s global economy.
Leaders plan the apprenticeship programme to help widen participation and increase diversity at the university.
In partnership with the employers, they recruit many apprentices who might otherwise not have the opportunity to study at this level.
At City St George’s, we have been improving health for over 250 years.
We are uniquely positioned as the UK’s specialist health university and have an outstanding record of research and innovation; our alumni include Edward Jenner, pioneer of the smallpox vaccine, and recent research has focused on tackling Covid-19.
Our students benefit from our shared site with St George’s Hospital, which means students are immersed in a professional environment whilst learning from practising clinicians working on the frontline.
St George’s have a strong track record with working with NHS partners, and our courses have been developed to meet the needs of the Healthcare sector.
If you would like to make a step change in the quality of how you deliver knowledge and skills-based training in your workplace, add value to your organisation, and retain and enhance your talent, the team at City St George’s are happy to look at your training needs.
Email the City St George's Apprenticeships Team on apprenticeships@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/healthcare-science-practitioner:
33 months practical, plus up to 3 months End Point Assessment
Deadline has now passed
City St George's Tooting campus
(International) citizens may apply
23 September 2024
We are not currently accepting applications for this programme.
Please check this webpage regularly for updates on future application processes.
The BSc Healthcare Science Practitioner course is a three-year integrated apprenticeship degree that combines academic and work-based learning through employment.
As a clinical physiologist you’ll work with patients to improve the quality of their lives.
The diagnostic tests you perform, analyse and interpret will provide patients with the correct diagnoses and therapies.
If you want to specialise and develop expert knowledge, but still interact with patients, this is the course for you.
When you train with us, you’ll graduate with a degree in cardiac or respiratory sleep physiology based on your current employment.
You will spend a brief time in either the cardiac or respiratory sleep department in your first year.
You will be exposed to essential diagnostic investigations such as ECGs, peak flow testing and oxygen saturation right through to complex tasks, for example, optimising pacemakers, Echocardiograms, body plethysmography and cardiac catherisation/intervention.
Over the three years, you will support patients of all ages with different cardiovascular or respiratory and sleep disorders, from arrhythmia to asthma.
With an ageing and increasingly obese population, health scientists are in demand.
When you graduate, you’ll be eligible to register with the Academy for Healthcare Science (AHCS).
Download our brochure about this programme (PDF) and take a look at the syllabus for this programme (PDF).
Our apprenticeship programme is for those currently in employment who have the support of their employer to start an apprenticeship in Healthcare Science.
Learn about our Health Science (Physiological Sciences) BSc
To be eligible for the Healthcare Science Apprenticeship, you must meet the requirements outlined under Entry Qualifications, Other Academic Requirements, and Non-academic Requirements below.
A Levels
Resits may be considered.
Accepted science subject include:
GCSEs
We accept resits of GCSEs.
We do not accept Adult Literacy and Numeracy or Functional Skills instead of GCSEs.
Apprentices without Level 2 English and Maths will need to achieve this level prior to taking the End-Point Assessment.
For those with an education, health and care plan or a legacy statement, the apprenticeship’s English and Maths minimum requirement is Entry Level 3.
A British Sign Language (BSL) qualification is an alternative to the English qualification for those whose primary language is BSL.
Work experience
Evidence of work experience (voluntary or paid) in a healthcare or community setting.
Applicants offered a place on the programme will be required to clear relevant Occupational Health and Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks.
Alternative qualifications
Alternative equivalent entry qualifications, including the International Baccalaureate, will also be considered.
Alternative qualifications must be attained at a level equivalent to NQF Level 3 and incorporate teaching and assessment in Biology at a breadth and depth comparable to A2 level.
International and EU qualifications will be assessed using National Academic Recognition Information Centre (NARIC) and UCAS Overseas Qualifications manual.
English Language qualifications
All applicants must hold English Language GCSE at grade C or above.
Alternatively, applicants should have achieved an overall score of at least 7.0 in IELTS (International English Language Testing System) with each individual skills section scoring at least 6.0.
Initial Needs Assessments
Candidates able to show evidence of a prior qualification containing elements substantially similar to those within the BSc (Hons) Healthcare Science degree may be exempted from not more than one third of the course of study and examinations leading to the degree.
Candidates who have completed 120 credits at Level 4 on a relevant, comparable course within the last five years may present a claim to advanced standing to enter Year 2 (level 5) directly.
Candidates seeking exemption from Year 1 (level 4) will be required to present evidence of qualifications and practical experience which demonstrates sufficiently comparable coverage of Year 1 academic content and clinical competencies.
Candidates may be required to undertake a short entry examination in order to demonstrate basic clinical competencies.
The time on the programme is split approximately 50/50 between university-based learning and work-based learning which you will do with your current employer.
In Year 1, you’ll be introduced to the scientific knowledge underpinning the field of physiological sciences.
From the start, the programme is explicitly designed as a preparation for clinical practice, slanted towards medically relevant information and clinical context.
During work-based training you will perform (under supervision) a range of routine cardiac and or respiratory procedures, including electrocardiograms (ECG), blood pressure, spirometry and pulse oximetry.
Working as part of a multi-disciplinary team, you will start to develop a range of essential patient skills, such as maintaining dignity and confidentiality, developing effective observational and communication skills, learning to appreciate cultural and ethical issues, as well as health and safety, such as infection control procedures.
As part of the University’s Essentials for Allied Health Professionals programme, you will work with students on other health courses – physiotherapists, occupational therapists, therapeutic and diagnostic radiographers, for example – so you can begin to appreciate the concept of multidisciplinary healthcare teams.
Year 1 modules
In year two, you will focus on your specialism, deepen your knowledge and understanding of the pathophysiology of common cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), syncope (fainting), sleep apnoea, heart attacks, heart failure and irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia).
This is reinforced by speciality-specific work based training, during which time you will build on your existing clinical skills and undertake more advanced procedures, such as measurement of gas exchange, lung volume and sleep studies (respiratory/sleep) or ambulatory ECG and blood pressure monitoring and assisting with cardiac exercise tests (cardiology).
Interactive sessions cover the highly skilled diagnostic techniques, methodologies and interpretation required for clinical practice.
For example, calibration of equipment is required to ensure patients get accurate and reliable test results and receive the correct diagnosis, treatments and interventions.
Year 2 modules
Cardiology Specialism:
Or
Respiratory/Sleep Specialism:
15 credits
45 credits
The final year focuses on the application of skills and final preparation for practice, so you graduate with the knowledge, experience, professionalism and clinical competencies required of a clinical practitioner.
You will spend a significant time on work based training, providing the hands-on experience needed to build real expertise, undertaking yet more advanced clinical procedures.
In cardiac physiology, this includes diagnostic and interventional cardiac catheterisation, Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM), device implants and optimisation.
In respiratory/sleep physiology, it involves setting up, analysing and interpreting sleep studies and initiating life changing treatments, such as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy in patients with sleep apnoea.
The Dissertation is an integral part of the year three programme, you will undertake data collection/analysis and write up your clinical audit/research project.
Previous students have covered a fascinating array of subject matter: from the effect of BMI on lung function to manual versus automated analysis of sleep studies in the diagnosis of sleep apnoea; and from exercise testing for Grown Up Congenital Heart Disease (GUCH) to one student’s service evaluation of a renal transplant stress echo service, results of which she presented at the prestigious British Society of Echocardiography’s 2020 Conference.
Year 3 modules
30 credits
Structured work based training focusing on competence-based training and assessment are an integral part of the BSc Healthcare Science programme.
As an apprentice you will spend a significant time in the workplace, with a minimum of 20% off the job training.
End-point assessment (EPA) is the final stage of the apprenticeship.
It is an impartial assessment of the skills, knowledge and behaviours outlined in the apprenticeship standards.
After successful completion of the EPA, apprentices will be awarded a certificate.
Teaching and learning for this programme includes interactive and varied sessions.
We are the only course in London to train in both cardiac and respiratory/sleep physiologist, this programme will provide you with the skills and knowledge for a career as a clinical physiologist, in either cardiac or respiratory/sleep speciality.
Teaching methods include lectures, face to face and online; seminars, tutorials, case-based learning, data interpretation exercises, group work, computer-aided learning, clinical skills training in simulated environments and clinical placements.
You will have anatomy tutorials in the Anatomy suite during your first year and spend time working with the specimens in our extensive pathology museum.
Case based learning (CBL) allows small groups to work together (with a facilitator) to discuss and debate clinical cases (e.g., kidney disease, diabetes, heart/lung disease etc), and review patient history, medication, diagnostic tests and test results to identify the correct diagnosis.
Small group tutorials in the final year are conducted with external Clinical Scientists who are specialists in their field, providing you with an opportunity for Q&As with some of the UK's leading scientists, working at the cutting-edge of healthcare science.
During your work-based learning, you will build a portfolio of clinical and professional skills and competencies and provide evidence that you have achieved the apprenticeship standards, expected by the NSHCS and for professional registration.
One of the many benefits of studying at St George’s is the opportunity to study and work with students on other healthcare-related courses, including medicine, physiotherapy, and diagnostic, to lay the foundation for future practice as part of a clinical multidisciplinary team.
Career prospects are excellent with opportunities for career progression within the NHS through professional practice and development into Senior Healthcare Science roles, as well as progression into management, education and training, or academic career pathways.
Cardiac Physiologists and Cardiac Scientists perform diagnostic procedures to investigate cardiac pathology.
From the basics of ECGs and ambulatory ECG/blood pressure monitoring and exercise stress tests, up to the complex cardio-pulmonary exercise tests, echocardiography and electrophysiology testing.
They work within a multidisciplinary team to provide urgent and elective coronary intervention, implant of devices to manage heart rhythm disturbances and independently run clinics for chest pain, syncope, arrhythmias, valve clinics and cardiac rhythm devices on patients of all ages.
In many units they are involved in research projects and also run their own research leading to a professional doctorate.
As a practitioner specialising in respiratory and sleep physiology, you will undertake a wide range of routine and highly complex diagnostic procedures on your patients, including spirometry, measurement of gas exchange, exercise testing, blood gas analysis, allergy testing and sleep studies.
Patients (including children) may be referred to you for many reasons, including low oxygen levels, abnormal chest X-rays, shortness of breath, suspected sleep disorders (e.g., sleep apnoea), pre-operative assessment (e.g., for lung cancer or transplantation) or suspected respiratory diseases such as emphysema, COPD, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, lung cancer and asthma.
In addition to diagnosis, practitioners are also actively involved in the treatment of patients.
This includes set up and initiation of ventilation devices in patients with sleep apnoea or respiratory failure and assessment, prescription, and monitoring of home oxygen therapy in patients with low oxygen levels.
St George’s is the only UK university, which specialises in healthcare education and is based on a hospital site, namely St George’s Hospital, where the Channel 4 television series 24 hours in A&E is filmed.
We offer a unique opportunity to study and work alongside the full range of clinical professionals and their patients.
Based in the thriving multi-cultural hub of Tooting in South West London, our location has the added advantage of being just a short tube ride from Central London and all the city lifestyle has to offer.
St George’s Hospital has a leading respiratory and sleep service, which provides services for both adult and paediatric placements.
In addition to offering placements, members of the clinical team undertake specialist teaching sessions for students on advanced sleep studies (polysomnography) and non-invasive ventilation used to treat respiratory failure.
We also have a range of specialist health and academic facilities to support your learning, listed below.
The anatomy suite is where present and future healthcare professionals and scientists in the hospital and University learn or expand on their anatomy knowledge directly from the human body, through access to high quality anatomy resources.
Our on-site museum houses a collection of over 2,000 pathological specimens, including a number of original specimens donated by Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie in 1843.
This space is used for small group tutorials by students across all of our courses as an educational tool to help you understand the mechanisms of disease.
We have a large number of clinical cubicles to help students across many courses build their skills in physical examinations, while getting used to a clinical environment, reflecting our hands-on approach to student development.
We have four clinical skills rooms used for teaching communication and clinical skills.
Each room is equipped with a ward style set up including beds, skeletons and mannequins for teaching.
In the first year, we will use these cubicles to practise routine skills, such as performing ECG, blood pressure, pulse oximetry, spirometry, checking for vital signs, and resuscitation techniques.
Using the latest patient manikins, or your fellow students, you can recreate healthcare scenarios and learn to solve problems prior to going out on placement.
Our modern health sciences library offers a wide range of books, e-books, academic journals and other resources to support you.
You will also have access to online resources, such as the Canvas virtual learning environment
and our Hunter discovery service to help you find the information you need.
The library is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and comprises silent, quiet and group learning areas, as well as four group discussion rooms.
We have five computer suites housing 260 workstations.
Three of these suites are accessible 24 hours a day.
It’s easy to find a free space with our handy real-time computer locator.
We also have 75 self-service laptops available.
Free Wi-Fi covers the whole campus, including all accommodation.
You can use these resources to access your course materials, discussion boards and feedback through Canvas.
Whether you are heading off to university straight from school or college, or returning to education as a mature student, we want to ensure your experience is positive from the outset.
At St George’s, you’ll be welcomed by a multicultural student and staff body of different ages, ethnicities, nationalities and backgrounds, all with one thing in common – an interest and passion in healthcare, science and medicine.
Students frequently tell us they greatly appreciate the diversity of our student and staff body, as well as the patients who access healthcare services in the borough of Tooting.
We attract a substantial number – over two-thirds – of ‘mature’ students, aged 21 or over when they start; many have family and caring responsibilities.
We offer a full range of academic support and student services across all institutes, departments and faculties, some of which are listed below.
We take pride in offering a transformative educational experience underpinned by cooperation and collaboration between staff and students.
Our innovative Student-Staff Partnership Grants (SSPGs), for example, provide funding for small projects led jointly by students and staff.
On arrival, you will be allocated a personal tutor – someone with whom you can have regular contact, who you ask questions and discuss problems with, both academic and personal.
The main purpose of a personal tutor is to monitor your progress, pick up and help you resolve any problems, whether academic or welfare related.
Even if they don’t have the answer they will point you in the right direction towards the best people to deal or support you with specific problems.
Within your first week at St George’s, you’ll take part in an induction programme to help with your orientation and introduce you to various study skills, including interprofessional learning and use of the Anatomy suite.
Additional sessions provide advice and guidance about the Registry, Students’ Union, personal tutor system, safety, occupational health and sexual health awareness.
You’ll have access to your lecturers, usually by arrangement via email.
We have service level agreements with most placement sites and the specialist cardiology and respiratory/sleep lecturers act as clinical placement co-ordinators.
They work closely with placement sites to ensure all students receive high quality training and mentoring whilst on clinical placements, and will visit students during placements to support and monitor progress.
‘Mums and dads’ is a buddy scheme organised by the Students’ Union.
Every fresher (first year student) has the choice of being assigned a ‘parent’ from the year above in their respective course.
The returning student then acts as a ‘go to’ for advice about courses and university life, providing an additional support system during your first year, both academically and socially.
They have been in your position and know the struggles of starting university; they also know all of the best pubs, clubs, restaurants, gyms and will help introduce you to your new St George’s family.
Our Student Centre team can help you with every aspect of student life: finances, accommodation, exams and assessment, academic procedures, admissions, international queries, disability and wellbeing, even finding your way around – whatever it takes to make you feel at home.
Each course has a designated contact within the student centre to link to and your personal tutor can signpost you to relevant support, including a confidential counselling service.
Our careers service works to support current students and recent graduates to find and maintain the career of their dreams.
We work with careers tutors from each course area to ensure that careers activities specific to your programmes and future profession come to you.
As an apprentice your employer and the government will pay any tuition fees for your apprenticeship through the apprenticeship levy funding .
The cost of this course is £9,000 a year .
If you are not sponsored by an employer and would like to self-fund a degree in Healthcare Science (Physiological Sciences) please visit the Healthcare Science (Physiological Science) BSc course page .
The deadline for applications to this apprenticeship has now passed.
If you have questions about an application you have made please contact apprenticeships@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/the-apprenticeships-levy:
Since April 2017, apprenticeships have changed with a new Government funding model.
Employers with an annual pay bill of more than £3 million are now charged a levy of 0.5%.
Levy money can be used by employers to buy apprenticeship training for employees at all ages and levels.
Organisations of any size, in any sector, can also access funding.
An apprenticeship is funded now based on employer annual payroll, with two main groups:
It is paid monthly with income tax and national insurance contributions.
Funds are to be used exclusively for apprenticeship training and funding expires if not used within 24 months.
Employers that are levy paying can transfer 25% maximum of annual funds to another employer for apprenticeship training.
The apprenticeship levy works for employers through HMRC via the normal PAYE process.
Monies are held in a digital fund through which you can pay for apprenticeship training.
The Government makes a 10% contribution to each monthly payment, so for each £1 you make as an employer, you will have access to £1.10 in the training fund.
You will receive apprenticeship levy funding in the form of vouchers to invest in appropriate training.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/summer-school-study-abroad:
Gain an understanding of some of the world's major health challenges in a unique teaching hospital campus,
Learn how you could spend part of your higher education studies in another European country.
Find out more about the Turing scheme, a new UK government funded study and work abroad programme.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/summer-school-study-abroad/erasmus:
Erasmus+ is a European Union-funded programme which could enable you to spend part of your higher education studies in another European country.
Erasmus+ provides grants for international study to students on the following courses.
Currently, we have Erasmus+ student mobility agreements with Leiden University , University of Barcelona , Radboud University Medical Centre and the University of Granada .
These agreements allow MSci Biomedical Science students to conduct a research project in one of the research groups at these universities.
We also have various agreements that allow students from different disciplines secure a traineeship at a partner university for a minimum of eight weeks.
The UK left the EU on 31 of January 2020 and effectively entered a transition period which will end on 31 of December 2020, after which many rules will change.
The Erasmus+ Scheme runs on seven yearly cycles with the current cycle ending in 2020, however UK is guaranteed to participate in the current Erasmus+ scheme through the lifetime of the ongoing projects and beyond the transition period.
Therefore, City St George's, University of London (formerly, St George's, University of London) will continue to participate in the current Erasmus+ scheme till the 31 of May 2023.
For more information about your study abroad options as a student with us, please contact the Study Abroad team at studyabroad@sgul.ac.uk .
City St George’s, University of London is recognised by the Erasmus Charter for Higher Education which allows us to participate in the programme and assist our students to study in Europe.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/summer-school-study-abroad/turing-scheme:
The Turing scheme is a UK government initiative offering global mobility opportunities to students from UK schools, colleges and universities and offers additional support to students from disadvantaged backgrounds.
We have secured a Turing grant for 2024/25 to support International student mobility activities that take place between September 2024 to August 2025 for placements that are from a minimumof 28 days to a maximum of 365 days.
Students from a disadvantaged background can received extra funds for living and travel costs as outlined on this page/ There are several criteria that can be used to define disadvantaged including:
The list above is not exhaustive and if you feel your situation could be considered as disadvantaged please check with the Study Abroad team or your Departmental Turing contact .
The Turing fund provides help with daily living costs, the amount each student can receive depends on the group the destination is in.
Groups are based on an assessment of the general cost of living in those destinations:
Information on destinations in each group is available here: List of destinations and grant rates .
There are different rates depending on the length of the placement, Student who complete a placement lasting more than 57 days will receive the 57 to 365 days rate for the whole placement, including the first 28 to 56 days.
The funding available is:
There are additional funds in the form of travel grants available to students from a disadvantaged background to help pay for travel costs.
Funding can cover the direct costs of a return trip to a placement up to a specific limit.
Rates can be found here: List of destinations and grant rates .
If you are eligible for travel funding you will be asked to provided proof of actual travel costs.
Students from a disadvantaged background may get assistance with readiness to travel, if you need help with any of the below and have no other way of paying for it then let the Study Abroad team know as soon as possible:
The Turing scheme will fund up to a 100% of actual costs directly related to the additional needs.
To enquire about your options, discuss with your programme lead or contact the Study Abroad team at studyabroad@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/why-st-georges:
We are the only UK university to have a campus shared with a teaching hospital, St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, so you are immersed in a professional environment from day one.
On our Tooting campus you can walk from lecture theatre to laboratory to hospital ward or clinic with ease.
You will be integrated into a professional healthcare environment from day one.
The majority of our teaching staff also hold clinical roles in the NHS or private clinics or have previously worked as a healthcare professional, so you will learn from academics with real on-the-job experience.
Right from the start of your course, we work to ensure that your skills and experience stand out to employers.
You will benefit from a diverse choice of placements in clinical settings across London and by learning from a curriculum that is constantly evolving to keep pace with current practice.
Our students and graduates are passionate about healthcare.
If you choose to study with us, you can be assured that right from the start of your course we are working to capture your passion and make your CV stand out to employers.
At City St George's, we prepare our students with the skills and knowledge to move into graduate positions in medicine, research and healthcare practice and help them develop into well-rounded individuals equipped for lifelong careers.
We (when we were St George's, University of London) ranked third in the UK for graduate prospect - outcomes and second for graduate prospects - on track , according to the lastest Complete University Guide.
We also received the Silver for Student Outcomes alongside our overall Silver rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) in 2023 .
As St George’s, University of London we are ranked in the top 3 in the UK for Graduate Prospects by the Complete University Guide (2025) .
We are listed as one of the top 350 universities in the world as well as ranking in the top 175 for Clinical & Health by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings (2024) .
By keeping a narrow but deep research focus, we ensure that our work is truly world class.
Our research informs World Health Organization policies and transforms the lives of people around the globe.
So it’s not surprising that despite our small size, we were ranked joint 8th in the UK for research impact in the Times Higher Education REF2021 Impact Scores .
As a specialist healthcare and medical higher education institution, we have established strong relationships with healthcare providers throughout London.
These help provide our students with clinical placements in hospitals and other healthcare settings.
Our medical students work with real patients from the second week of their first year, and students on our other clinically based programmes work on placement from their second year.
Biomedical science students have access to professional networks that put them in the best position to gain work experience during their holidays, such as research and lab-based internships.
Our professional links also inform teaching on our courses, keeping them up to date with the needs of today’s evolving clinical practice.
Many courses use problem-based learning as a way to bring learning to life, and dedicated employability sessions are incorporated into programmes from year one.
Right from the start, students on all our courses learn with, from and about each other.
The aim of this interprofessional learning is to reflect the multidisciplinary nature of delivering healthcare today.
Our careers service offers advice and support to current students and recent graduates.
We encourage our students to start thinking about their career options early, and to develop their employability skills during their time at City St George’s, both independently and through curriculum-based activities.
Our careers service, offered through the University of London, works closely with all of our courses to make sure the best support is given to students at all levels of study.
There is also individual support for students throughout their study.
This support includes:
Access to the UK’s largest careers information library and careers support network offered by The Careers Group, University of London .
To make sure your learning experience at City St George's is second to none, we continue to invest in our teaching resources.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/accommodation:
We guarantee accommodation for first year undergraduate students applying by 1 July 2025.
First-year graduate students on full-time taught postgraduate programmes (including Graduate Entry Medicine) will be prioritised if they have applied by the 1 July 2025 deadline and if they have not previously studied at undergraduate level in London.
First year students are prioritised for Horton Halls , with students in subsequent years expected to make their own accommodation arrangements in the private rental sector.
If you are a student looking for accommodation in the current 2024/2025 academic year please apply for a room here .
How to submit your application, receive an offer and move in.
Learn more about our accommodation fees.
There are on-site laundry facilities, internet access and a secure reception staffed 24 hours a day.
Elective accommodation is only available to students who apply through the official Medical Electives scheme
Explore the University of London Housing Services.
Find out more about alternative housing options and connect with new flatmates.
Explore upcoming student housing events and talks, to assist you with your search for accommodation.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started:
We are looking forward to welcoming our new students.
Here you will find all the information you need before you start, including how enrolment and induction will work this year.
Make sure you look at the enrolment information under Before You Arrive and find out the date of your course induction visit under the Induction section.
How to enrol and info on fees, finances, and packing your bag!
Read what you need to know, on arrival.
Discover your students' union, and local life in Tooting.
Enrolment is necessary to formally become a student at City St George's Tooting campus.
Find out how the enrolment process works.
What to expect during induction.
Check here for important dates and links
Find out about our thriving international community.
Explore your Students' Union.
Find out more about postgraduate life at City St George's (Tooting campus).
St George's has merged with City, University of London to become City St George's, University of London.
Learn about how this has impacted and will continue to impact our brand.
Speak to one of our dedicated Student Services team.
Our Careers Service is here to support you with personalised advice and guidance for your future.
Schedule an appointment with our consultants and start planning your next steps today.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started/before-you-arrive:
Preparing for university is really important, and there are a number of things that we recommend you are aware of, or have completed before you join us.
You can find these below.
Please get in touch if you need any clarification.
Enrolment is carried out in two stages.
The first part is completed online.
The second is completed onsite, where we verify your identity and you obtain your student ID card.
You will receive an email from Admissions asking you to complete the initial stage:
You will be guided through the process, but you might want to prepare the following documents so you have electronic copies to hand when you request them:
Once you’ve completed the initial stage, you’ll be invited to an onsite enrolment session during the first week of your term.
Download our interactive packing checklist (PDF)
If you’re living in Halls, we can help set you up with bedding, kitchen equipment and other supplies before you arrive.
Just get in touch.
If you have a physical disability, long-term health condition, sensory impairment, autistic spectrum condition, mental health condition or a Specific Learning Difference such as dyslexia, you may be entitled to some support to access your course and make the most of your time here.
Our Disability Adviser, Emma Catlow, is looking forward to welcoming you and making sure that you have everything in place that you need.
If you haven't already been in touch with her then please make contact by emailing us as soon as you can
If you’re concerned that your disability or other health condition may put you more at risk from Covid-19, and you haven’t already completed a risk assessment, please contact us as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started/enrolment:
Enrolment will take place in three stages.
You must complete Stage 1 of enrolment before arriving at Induction , but you should aim to complete Stage 1 and 2 as soon as possible.
International students must also complete a Right to Study check as part of their enrolment process.
This check will take place onsite before progressin to Stage 3 (ID card process).
Please see Right to Study for International Students for more information.
Before completing Stage 1, you will need to wait until you receive an e-mail from the City St George's (Tooting campus) IT Department before following the steps below.
If you do not receive an email from the IT Department more than 48 hours after you were contacted about enrolment, contact the Admissions team .
Ensure you list all academic qualifications not already listed when completing the online enrolment task.
Without these qualifications inputted, your enrolment may be delayed.
If you are unable to find your qualification on the list whilst inputting, please include them during the verification stage (Stage 2), and we can assist you.
You will receive a confirmation email to your University email address account to confirm that you have completed online enrolment.
Do not forget to check this inbox regularly as this is now your official University email address.
Should you encounter any technical issues and online enrolment is not possible, please let us know by contacting the Admissions team .
You will be asked to complete a similar process every year as it is a condition of your continued registration as a student that you enrol for each year of the course.
Stage 1 must be completed before progressing to Stage 2.
For us to confirm that you are eligible to enrol at City St George’s, we will need to verify all of your documents.
We will be able to verify the majority of qualifications remotely, however some qualifications, such as degrees and international qualifications, will need to be verified in person during induction .
In the last few weeks, you will have received emails from the Admissions team asking you to upload your documents to the applicant portal.
This will help you complete Stage 2.
1.
Log onto your applicant portal .
2.
Make sure you have uploaded copies of any documents requested by email that now appear in your applicant portal check list.
This may include:
If you have already uploaded your documents to the applicant portal, they will appear under 'Documents', and you will not need to upload them again.
3.
Once you have uploaded your documents, the Admissions team will view your documents and begin the enrolment process remotely.
We may be in touch if we require any further information from you.
If we have all of the information we need, you will receive an email confirming that you are fully enrolled.
This is a manual process and may take a few weeks.
If you have the following qualifications, we will not be able to complete your enrolment remotely, and ask you to bring the original certificate with you when you are invited to collect your ID card during Induction (Stage 3):
Stage 1 must be completed before progressing to Stage 3.
International students must also complete the Right to Study check before progressing to Stage 3.
At the start of the course, you will be invited on-site to obtain your Student ID card.
You will now be considered a student, rather than an applicant.
Ensure you attend the ID card session scheduled in your first week on-site at City St George's (Tooting campus).
Please see our Induction webpage for the date of your onsite visit.
Bring the following with you to use on the day:
If you are not fully enrolled when you collect your ID card, the Admissions team will advise on what is outstanding and how you can become fully enrolled.
4.
Be ready to have your photograph taken for your ID!
Information on fees, finances, and packing your bag!

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started/induction:
Induction for new students consists of three parts: the Get Started at City St George's online induction module, live online events and on-site induction.
Incoming students will be invited on to Tooting campus to collect their student ID card, have an introduction to your course and the university, and to meet with Occupational Health if needed.
Students should expect to be on campus for at least a couple of days in their first week.
Freshers activities will be happening at the same time so you may wish to be on campus much more often than that.
Find contact details of all out undergraduate and postgraduate courses, as well as for technical services.
Start dates for onsite induction are set out in the sections below.
Download the MSc Physiotherapy (pre-regsitration) induction programme for 2025 (PDF).
This timetable will be published in early August 2025.
Our taught postgraduate courses will be hosting an Induction and Welcome event on campus for all new students from 8-10 September 2025.
Courses inducting on 8 September 2024:
Details of the onsite Welcome Event for these courses will be published in early August 2025.
As well as all the Induction activities and course sessions, there's a huge range of Students' Union activities happening in the first week.
Don't forget to check the CSGSU website for all of the details.
Please aim to arrive at City St George’s (Tooting campus) approximately 10-15 minutes before your first session.
You will receive an email telling you which group you are in and what time to arrive.
It's sometimes easier to come through the hospital to the university rather than walking all the way around.
There is also a pedestrian gate to the grounds on Coverton Road—please refer to the map below.
You will be met by one of the team at the university entrance and directed to your session.
You must complete online enrolment before attending, you will receive information regarding this from the Admissions team.
Please make sure you bring photo ID (e.g.
passport or driving licence) with you.
In addition to events being held onsite, we’ll be holding some live online events to welcome everyone to St George’s before the term starts.
Welcome to your new home.
Find all information to help you get started and settled into University life here .
If at any point you are struggling or unsure, please read our Wellbeing section or contact the Student Life Centre .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started/moving-to-university:
Going to university is a really exciting time, and we want to make sure that you feel ready to start with us.
It doesn’t matter whether you're joining us as an undergraduate or postgraduate student or whether you’re living in halls, at home or in private accommodation, we’re here for you.
If you’re moving into Horton Halls , we’ve put together directions at the bottom of this page to help you get there by train, plane, bus, bike or car.
In order to keep residents safe during the moving in process, we’ll be offering booking slots to move in starting a week before your start date.
If you need to arrive even earlier, perhaps because you’re flying into the UK before term starts, please let us know .
We can arrange for that to happen.
When you arrive at halls, you’ll be greeted by staff and shown where to pick up keys.
As well as checking in, you’ll be asked to complete an inventory for your room.
It’s a list of everything included in your room and its condition when you arrive.
Checking this list thoroughly will help make sure you get your full deposit back at the end of the academic year.
That includes any adaptations you need and which you asked us to make when you signed your License Agreement.
If something’s not right please tell us, so we can get it sorted out.
Moving into a new place can feel tiring and overwhelming, but it’s also a great opportunity to meet other students.
Introduce yourself to your flatmates and you’ll feel more settled and more at home.
Your flatmates are going to be especially important this year.
Our Resident Advisors will be encouraging activities for everyone to get to know each other and get along.
There are lots of ways to break the ice and get talking to your flatmates – tea is always a great place to start – but the most important thing is to get out of your room and into the kitchen.
Say hello and get talking – it may be a cliché, but everyone really is in the same boat.
If at any point you feel lonely, homesick or overwhelmed, please read our wellbeing section for advice and information on the support we want to offer you at City St George’s.
The sections below explain how to reach halls by car and by public transport.
The nearest Tube station is Tooting Broadway, which is about a 20-minute walk from the station to halls.
The G1 bus runs to halls from the station, but make sure you get on the bus going towards Battersea or you’ll head off in the wrong direction!
Buses 44, 77 and 270 will all take you close enough to Halls to make the walk manageable with luggage.
Get off at the stop for Garratt Lane/Wimbledon Road.
The 155 (from Elephant and Castle), the 280 (from Sutton) and the G1 (from Streatham and Battersea) stop directly outside St George’s.
Buses 44, 77 and 270 get you close to halls - jump off at Garratt Lane/Wimbledon Road.
Even more buses stop at Tooting Broadway, including routes 57, 127, 131, 219, 264, 333, and 355.
From there, see the ‘By tube’ instructions above to get to halls.
The closest station to halls is Earlsfield.
Trains run out from Waterloo and Clapham Junction and in from Kingston, Guildford, Dorking and Woking.
It’s about a 15-minute walk from Earlsfield to halls or jump on the 44, 77 or 270 to the stop at Garratt Lane/Wimbledon Road.
Cycling info can be found on the TFL website .
Cycling is the fastest way to get from halls to the City St George’s Tooting campus, and there’s secure bike storage at both places.
If you’re bringing your stuff to halls by car, the closest major roads are the A3 from the West, M23/A23 from the South and A2 from the East.
If you’ve got SatNav, the postcode for halls is SW17 0BD.
Parking at halls is very limited, but there are spaces for parking up while you unload your things and take them to your room.
It gets quite busy the weekend before term starts, so it would be great if you could move your car after you’ve unloaded – there are pay and display spaces nearby.
The most straightforward way of getting to City St George’s Tooting campus from halls is to walk.
The walk takes 10 to 15-minutes depending on how late you’re running!
A great way to save time is to get a bike – there’s secure bike parking at halls (just ask reception) and not one but two bike sheds just around the corner from the main campus entrance.
You’ll need a code to access these – just ask at the Student Centre.
If you need to use the bus, the G1 runs every 15-minutes or so, from just outside Halls to the main campus entrance.
It doesn’t take a direct route, so it’s not as fast as walking.
To travel to City St George’s (Tooting campus) from halls make sure you get on the bus going to Streatham, and then take the bus going towards Battersea on the way back.
If you're planning to move into private accommodation or if you’re living at home, we believe strongly that your university experience shouldn’t differ from those in halls.
Support and events are available to all, so come and get involved in all that’s going on at City St George’s Tooting campus.
Many of our students live in private accommodation, and there are a great many reasonably priced rooms, flats, maisonettes and houses available in and around Tooting.
Shared flats and houses are often passed from student group to student group within the City St George’s community.
Most of our students end up living within a 15 – 20-minute walk from the Tooting campus.
We are on hand to support you when looking and securing your rented accommodation.
Our accommodation advisor is on hand to help with your search.
Email us .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started/life-at-city-st-georges:
Tooting is a lively and affordable place to live in London, brimming with independent coffee houses, artisan pubs, and South Indian restaurants.
Due to this buzz it was named one of the world's coolest neighbourhoods by Lonely Planet in August 2017, owing its vibrancy to its multicultural population and still-visible heritage.
As a student at City St George's you're also automatically a member of our Students' Union (SU), established to represent all of the students studying here.
You're also a part of the National Union of students (NUS) and Student Central (formerly the University of London Union), which offer additional facilities and services, as well as clubs, societies and events, based in and around the city centre.
City George's Students' Union is a great way of getting involved in wider university life and extracurricular activities.
Our SU offers over 120 clubs, societies and community projects that you can get involved with at any time during your studies.
Sports clubs include Climbing Society, Ski and Snowboard Club, Yoga, Jiu Jitsu to name a few, whilst societies cover a range of academic, cultural, religious and ‘just for fun' interests.
Four students are elected each year as sabbatical officers whose role it is to represent the rights and needs of students of students.
They sit on most City St George's committees, making sure your voice is heard.
The sabbatical officers are happy to listen to any concerns or issues you may have throughout your time here.
Whilst the Student Life Centre is your first point of call for most concerns or issues, SU officers can also advise or point you in the right direction should you face any problems regarding accommodation, finance, essay writing, discrimination, sexual health, wellbeing and more.
As well as a bar , the SU also has a shop on the ground floor of the Hunter Wing, where you can buy snacks, drinks, branding clothing and stationery at discounted prices.
Money spent in the bar and shop goes back into funding the SU.
Tooting is home to several gastropubs and quirky bars including Tooting Tram and Social , a converted tram shed which is a great option for late night drinks and dancing.
The Castle pub has a garden area, perfect for summer evenings, whilst The Selkirk SW17 hosts live music and quiz nights.
MUD Tooting is a laid-back, independent coffee shop on Mitcham Road perfect for coffees and brunches.
Harrington's Pie & Mash shop is considered London's oldest pie and mash shop, and now the oldest business in SW17 and has been visited by the likes of actor James Franco.
Major of London Sadiq Khan, who was born and raised in Tooting, is a champion of Tooting and recommends Pooja , an Indian sweet shop on Upper Tooting Road where you can pick up middle eastern sweets and Turkish delight.
Tooting has great options for budget shopping, with large supermarket chains such as Iceland, Aldi, and Lidl, and budget clothing stores such as TK Maxx and Primark.
However it's also home to two authentic and historic markets.
Broadway Market is one of South London's oldest markets with over 100 stalls selling food, drinks, clothes electronics and homewares, whilst Tooting Market which boasts an organic London gin bar as well as popular pizza place Franco Manca , was voted Best Small Indoor Market in the UK at the Great British Market Awards .
There are several gyms in Tooting including Anytime Fitness and The Gym London , as well as Tooting Leisure Centre which offers a discount to students.
Nearby Tooting Common has an athletics track and gym, whilst Tooting Bec Lido is the UK's largest freshwater pool.
The art deco pool is Grade II listed and becomes a real community hotspot in the summer months - Brad Pitt has even been a visitor whilst filming.
Tooting is well-connected with two tube stations, one train station and multiple bus routes.
A 20 minute journey on the northern line (underground) will take you direct to Waterloo.
There are two night buses that run all night, and the tube is also open all night on Friday and Saturday offering easy access to London's nightlife.
Many other vibrant areas of South West London are within easy reach including Brixton, Clapham, Balham and Wimbledon.
The best way to finance your travel in London is with a Student Oyster photocard which offers discounted rates of 30% off the equivalent adult weekly and monthly fares.
It be eligible you must study full-time and live in London.
The photocard is £20 and you can apply for yours through TFL once you have fully enrolled for the academic year.
You may also like to consider a 16-25 Railcard if you planning on using trains to travel across the UK.
London is a great place to explore other cities, such as Brighton and Oxford.
National Express also offers good rates if you plan and book in advance.
There are several NHS medical centres in the area including Mitcham Medical Centre and Trevelyan House Surgery.
It's worth registering with a doctor near where you live.
High street banks in the area include HSBC, Natwest, Halifax and Barclays.
There are more than 15 places of worship in Tooting, servicing four major religions.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started/your-wellbeing:
Here at City St George’s Tooting campus we’re very proud of our diversity and have students and staff from different backgrounds, beliefs, cultures and sexualities.
Students join us at all stages of their lives.
We welcome many mature students, students with children or other caring responsibilities, and those who work as well as study.
We pride ourselves on appreciating everyone for who they are and being open to different views and different ways of living.
There’s plenty of support available at City St George’s Tooting campus.
The following services and contacts will be glad to help you whether you’re struggling with your studies, sorting out practical matters or experiencing personal problems.
Your first port of call for academic and personal matters, our staff at the Student Life Centre are always on hand to help.
Whether you're needing to speak to a member of staff in private about an issue you're experiencing or ask an urgent question about your studies, we're here for you.
Drop in, on the 6th Floor of Hunter Wing, email or call 020 8266 6344.
You will be allocated a personal tutor who is your academic point of contact when you arrive.
Your personal tutor is there to ensure your welfare, as well as your academic success and will be happy to meet you individually.
The Counselling Service: in Induction Week, Counselling staff will run sessions looking at how people react to change, and suggesting simple, practical ways of supporting yourself and your friends as you start your university studies.
Contact details can be found on the Counselling webpage .
The Students' Union .
We also have a number of student networks and specialist contacts who offer support and an understanding atmosphere, including:
the LGBT Network
SPACE (Student Parents and Carers Empowered) who can offer advice and support on juggling the responsibilities of family and study
support for Care Leavers (young people who have been in local authority care including public care, foster care, semi-independent living or residential care home): specialist support is offered by our Student Finance Advisor Helen Williams, who will invite you to an individual meeting and advise you on special services including 365-day contacts for Horton Halls
the ‘Mums and Dads' scheme, under which new students can choose to be paired with a returning student for advice on everything from social events to study hints (if you're interested in this, an introductory event will be held in the first few days).
We do not tolerate any form of bullying or harassment—if you encounter this you should report it to a member of staff or the Students' Union straight away.
When you start at university it marks the start of a new phase for the whole family.
It’s a big adjustment for everyone, especially if you’re living on your own for the first time or if you are the first in your family to go to university.
One of the of the differences between school and university is that we do not hold a direct relationship with your parents or guardians, even if they are paying your tuition fees.
We do not share information about you with anyone except yourself without your specific consent.
This includes personal, academic or financial information, including whether you’re on a course with us.
If you have any concerns, please discuss them with us at the Student Centre.
Starting at university is a big transition.
Homesickness and social anxiety can affect some people.
If you’re living independently for the first time, take some time before you arrive to read all the pre-arrival information and fill in any forms, learn to cook a few basic meals and plan your finances (confidential financial advice is available through the Student Centre).
Being prepared will help you feel less nervous about leaving home.
Once you’ve arrived, fight off homesickness by getting your bearings in Tooting and joining some clubs or societies to make a wider circle of friends.
Feel free to ask for help and directions whenever you need them.
As well as the Student Centre, every student is allocated a personal tutor, who is available to discuss academic or personal concerns on a one-to-one basis.
We expect your attendance for small group teaching and scheduled sessions.
If you are absent because of illness, inform the appropriate course administrator as soon as possible (contact details are in your course handbook), or if you’re on placement inform your contact there.
We also expect courteous behaviour.
Much of our teaching space is also part clinical and there may be vulnerable patients sharing corridor space with students.
Please don’t use your mobile phone during any lectures or group teaching – it distracts both you and your fellow students.
In addition, don’t make any videos or audio recordings without the permission of the lecturer – we arrange recordings of many of our lectures, and these will be available for you online.
We know that often it isn’t just students that visit this page.
If you’re a parent of a student, welcome.
We’ve put this section together with help from our academic team, who have experience both welcoming new students to City St George’s as well as sending their own sons and daughters off to start at university.
We hope this section is able to answer some common questions we get from parents each year.
When your son or daughter starts at University it marks the start of a new phase for the whole family.
While the next few years will probably be amongst the best of their lives, this can also mean a big adjustment for everyone especially if they’re the first in the family to enter university.
For many, it’s the start of independent living, away from well-known places and people and everything that’s familiar.
There will be major differences between your relationship with the University and one that you might have had with schools.
City St George’s relationship is with students, not with parents—even those paying the tuition fees.
This is sometimes difficult for parents who naturally wish to be involved with important aspects of the student’s life but University policy and UK law recognise students as adults and restrict our relationship with third parties.
The University is registered with the data protection authorities in the UK as a holder of confidential data and this prohibits the University from disclosing or even confirming data to anyone.
Encourage them to take responsibility for themselves and for starting their new way of life with confidence and enthusiasm.
On a practical level, it is really helpful if they can cook a few basic meals for themselves and can manage their own financial affairs.
We recognise that many students find managing money difficult, however, and confidential financial advice is always available through our Student Centre.
They will receive a lot of pre-arrival information which can seem overwhelming.
You can help by encouraging them to read it all carefully and to return all the forms in time.
In this way, they will be informed and prepared in advance and be less nervous about starting at university.
This is a very busy, exciting but also potentially quite a tiring and stressful time.
Some new students are reluctant to join in the social events or feel uncomfortable in crowds of strangers; you can help by encouraging them to take part from the beginning.
Large-scale activities, such as clubs, lively bars etc.
are very popular, but many students like smaller or quieter activities instead of, or as a change from these.
The Students Union and our Student Centre work together to ensure that there are events to help all students begin to feel that they belong.
Making new friends and adjusting to new situations takes time and effort.
Some students take to the new environment immediately; for others it's a longer process.
Home-sickness and feelings of isolation are more common than students realise.
Every new student is assigned a City St George’s ‘mum’ or ‘dad’, a more experienced student who can give some help and advice as they start their studies.
The only way is to ask them.
UK universities are not permitted to release information about academic progress, attendance or anything else to any third party without that student's express consent.
This includes students’ parents.
Examination results are issued regularly to every student on a taught course - usually after the end of each semester.
If they inform you that they are facing academic problems, try to find out why.
University work is very challenging and even exceptional students may receive their first poor grades at this level.
Our regulations allow students to re-sit failed examinations and even the most hard-working students sometimes have to do this.
Every student is allocated a personal tutor, who will be available to discuss academic or personal concerns on a one-to-one basis.
We ask students to put an emergency contact on their university record.
We would normally use this only in the unlikely case of medical personnel advising that this is required.
Normally, medical staff would be the ones to make contact if they consider it necessary.
Hospitals have similar guidelines and do not notify the University of hospitalised students unless the students ask them to.
It’s up to students themselves to inform the University that they are in hospital; many choose not to.
If we do have contact with a student in hospital, we suggest that they let people at home know, but cannot do this for them without permission.
The fact that your son or daughter has left to go start university doesn’t mean that they don’t need your support any more, just that they need it in different ways.
They will miss you but might not get in touch as often as you'd like.
When we have asked, students’ responses to how often they’d like to speak to parents can usually be summed up as: ‘please call me… but not too often.’

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started/postgraduate-life:
Welcome to our postgraduate community at City St George’s (Tooting campus) – where you’ll meet and study with other dedicated science and healthcare professionals looking to advance their careers.
We’re small by comparison to the undergraduate community here but you’ll still have access to the same support networks and be part of a team committed to your academic success.
The Student Life Centre is the place to go for all student matters.
Our team of advisers offer support with:
Telephone: + (44) 0203 897 2033
Email: studentlifecentre@sgul.ac.uk
Opening hours (remote services): Monday to Friday, 10am to 4pm.
The library is offers a variety of drop-in services onsite for students and can train you to use the email system and other IT services.
It’s easy to access the virtual learning environment, Canvas, where you’ll find course materials, feedback and discussion boards.
If you would like to brush up on your information-finding skills, they library runs regular, free courses on information literacy.
The university provides a dedicated counselling service available to all students.
You can book an appointment to see one of our counsellors through the Wellbeing section of our website .
CIty St George’s Students’ Union (Tooting) also have an Education and Welfare Support Officer who can support students who are facing personal, emotional and academic challenges.
This includes providing support on academic procedures (i.e.
mitigating circumstances, deadline extensions, disciplinary and fitness to study or practice issues) and on a diverse range of welfare issues including help to deal with mental health problems and major life changes.
Students can drop by the Students’ Union office Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm or email us to make an appointment.
All students have access to a personal tutor who acts as an academic point of contact and support.
Personal tutors offer regular meetings, provide advice, support and feedback on academic and progress issues, and support you if you experience difficulties with academic or welfare matters.
Postgraduate Research Degrees students will have an allocated supervisory team who are responsible for your studies and welfare.
They also have access to a dedicated Postgraduate Coordinator, who is an academic member of staff, on the Research Degrees Committee and who has responsibility for a numb er of students within their Institute.
The PGC is separate from the supervisory team so that students can have an independent member of staff to speak to about issues that they feel they cannot discuss with their supervisory team.
“City St George’s is a very diverse university, there’s lots of different people, and you make lots of different types of friends.
There’s always someone to help you out with anything you’re struggling with and the lecturers are really easy to chat to and find."
“I’m supported academically and personally on my course by my supervisor - whose office is only two doors away from my desk.
My lecturers are all just one email away and they’re all very happy to meet.
The Students’ Union itself can help out with the course and any issues you’re having there and then there’s also the head of department who you can go to if you’re struggling with your supervisor or anyone else who is in the workplace.”
- James Pratt - MRes Biomedical Science
The Careers Service is here to support all City St George's (Tooting campus) current students and recent graduates to develop the skills and knowledge they need to pursue their career or further study.
This involves 1:1 advice and coaching, careers workshops and events as well as access to careers information, resources and vacancy listings.
Our careers adviser can help with:
Appointments are available every Wednesday and Thursday from 9.30am-4pm and the careers adviser is located in the Student Centre, sixth floor of the main St George’s building (Hunter Wing) at the Tooting campus.
To book an appointment, contact the Student Life Centre:
Advice to parents or guardians of students who are joining St George’s is provided through our Student Centre.
Juggling study and parenthood can be difficult, particularly if you’re taking a demanding medical or healthcare degree.
However, it can be done, and there is support available.
Our Student Parents and Carers Empowered society (SPACE) is a group run by studying parents that meets monthly.
So if you’re a parent, or thinking of having children, going along is a great way of meeting other students in a similar situation.
For more information, or if you have any queries about studying at City St George’s as a parent, you can email the association .
Students studying full time Higher Education courses may be entitled to additional financial help from their funding body.
If you are receiving Student Loans and Grants, or financial support from NHS Student Bursaries, you might like to make enquiries about the following supplementary grants.
Further details about Parents’ Learning Allowance and the Childcare Grant can be found on the Directgov website .
Please note that both grants are income assessed, so if you live with a partner/spouse their income details will be used to calculate your entitlement.
The Access to Learning Fund (ALF) provides discretionary financial assistance to students to help them access and remain in Higher Education.
Students who need financial help to meet extra costs that cannot be met from other sources of support, and those who may be considering leaving Higher Education because of financial problems are particularly encouraged to apply.
The ALF can also help to alleviate unexpected financial hardship.
Students with child dependants are one of the priority groups targeted and students are encouraged to make an application as soon as possible as funds are limited.
The application form and guidance notes can be found on our website .
Please contact our Student Finance team at studentfinance@sgul.ac.uk for further information or if you have any financial difficulties at all during your course.
The International Advising Team at Ciity St George's recognises that studying in the UK can be both an exciting and daunting experience.
The Team provide’s support and guidance on a wide range of non-academic matters including:
If we can't help we can direct you to the most relevant person that can.
We are dedicated to the welfare of our international students.
In a recent survey, 92% of international students rated their overall interactions with the International Advising Team as either good or excellent.
— (Arrival Survey, 2018)
City St George’s (Tooting campus) makes reasonable adjustments for disabled students and staff where they would otherwise face a 'substantial disadvantage' in their work, their study or in using a service.
The Disability Advisor gives students guidance on reasonable adjustments, disabled student allowances or confidential support.
“Right off the bat, when I first moved here I was supported right away.
I was able to actually speak to my lecturers, rather than just a registrar which was amazing.
So I actually had a phone call with one of my lecturers even before I moved here and she was able to tell me about Tooting, about the school, all these kind of questions I had, so I did feel a support right away, a support system.
“We also are given advisors, which is great, so any sort of issues I’m having I can go straight to him and it’s completely confidential and I feel totally comfortable with him, whether it be emotional or health issues, finding a GP, to find here because I’m an international student, lots of things, so they were super helpful with that and definitely feeling lots of support from my fellow students all the time, which is great.” — Sarah Latter, Msc Physiotherapy

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/get-started/contact-us:
Please see below for contacs and links to a variety of useful resources.
Click each item below to reveal information beneath.
For anything related to your application for a course at City St George’s, Tooting Campus, please email:
Undergraduate: admissions@sgul.ac.uk
Postgraduate: pgadmiss@sgul.ac.uk .
If you have questions regarding accommodation, please email the team: accommodation@sgul.ac.uk .
If you have a disability or Specific Learning Difficulty, our advisors, based in the Student Life Centre, can support you to succeed in your studies and make the most of your time here at City St George’s.
You can contact the team here: disability@sgul.ac.uk .
For more information around the wide range of sports, social and cultural activities and events and welfare and advice that the Students’ Union offer, please visit their website .
For information about visas, working in the UK, finance and support for international students, please visit our EU and international student support webpages .
Take a look at the various services we can offer to support with your mental health, healthy lifestyles and keeping safe, please check out our Health and wellbeing pages .
Your timetable can be found here .
For information on support with devices, guides and contacts please visit our Technology guidance and support for students page .
Please check here for term dates here .
For any course related information, including uniforms, course details, and contact information, please visit our Course administration support webpages .
To find out how to get a locker during your studies, please visit our Lockers webpage .
Information around how to apply for student finance, how to make fee/deposit payments and any finance related questions, please visit our Student Finance and funding pages .
A full list of available support services can be found in our Student support A-Z .
You will be provided with your ID card at enrolment - you must wear your identity card at all times on City St George's and hospital premises and your presence on site may be challenged if it is not clearly visible.
To find out what to do if your card is lost, damaged or stolen, please visit our ID Cards page .
Students are often required to confirm their status in order to access services or receive discounts.
The Student Life Centre can produce or adapt a range of documents to provide the evidence you need for most activities.
Standard letters can often be produced while you wait if you visit the centre in person.
Find out more .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/quality-and-partnerships-directorate/quality-assurance-at-st-georges/programme-specifications.aspx:
A programme specification is a concise description of the intended learning outcomes for the programme and the means by which these outcomes will be achieved.
It is primarily a mechanism for enabling students to understand what a programme will enable them to achieve when they graduate and the way in which these achievements are facilitated by the learning, teaching and assessment strategies and methods on offer.
Programme specifications are also intended to help potential students in making a decision about what and where to study.
As such, they set out some of the key features of our each of our programmes.
A programme specification is not intended to be the primary source of information for students, potential students, employers or other external stakeholders.
The programme specification is supplemented by more detailed information available for a variety of audiences and in a range of formats including the St George's, University of London website, published prospectuses, handbooks, programme guides and course outlines, many of which are available online.
Programme specifications are also an important component of our internal quality assurance procedures.
They are approved by expert panels, updated each year and regularly reviewed.
The programme specifications below relate to courses running in 2024/25.
Specifications from previous years are available on request.
Courses do change over time.
A change may have been introduced to a course that has not yet been included in the specification.
Also, a planned change may not come into effect for some time.
If a change has been or will be introduced, applicants will be made aware of this during the application process.
Glen Delahaye Quality and Partnerships Directorate St George's, University of London Cranmer Terrace London SW17 0RE

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges:
Just a 15 minute walk from the university's Tooting campus, our halls of residence, Horton Halls, provide self-catered single en suite study/bedrooms.
City St George’s (Tooting campus) is based in the thriving, multicultural hub of Tooting in south-west London.
Learn more about the Students' Union and social activities available to students.
Find out more about our state-of-the-art educational and research facilities, and spaces for socialising.
City St George’s welcomes mature students on all our courses.
In fact, many of our courses are designed to help people, like you, access new careers.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/living-in-london:
We are based in the thriving, multicultural hub of Tooting in south-west London.
We have close ties with the local community and as an institution we play an active role in the vibrancy of the area.
Our south west London location in Tooting offers you the best of both worlds – it is small enough to maintain a friendly, local neighbourhood atmosphere, but it is close enough to all the attractions of central London.
You will have all the advantages of living in one of the most exciting cities in the world without all the cost!
St George’s is five minutes from Tooting Broadway tube station, which is in London Transport's Zone 3.
Central London and all its attractions are just 25 minutes away and accessible via the Northern Line tube service, which now runs 24/7 on weekends.
With a Student Oyster Card you get a 30% discount on tube and bus travel, and your Students’ Union card entitles you to discounts and concessions at a wide range of shops, clubs and cinemas.
Plenty of museums and art galleries are free to enter, and there’s no charge for mooching through the streets and parks of this awe-inspiring city.
Whatever your budget, you should be able to make London your own.
With a variety of pubs, clubs, parks and entertainment, as well as a plethora of amazing restaurants and eateries, there is plenty in Tooting to keep you occupied.
The shopping areas in Clapham, Balham, Wimbledon and Colliers Wood are also close by.
Particular highlights include Tooting’s numerous, excellent curry houses, while our many pubs, including the Antelope and the Castle , provide great spaces to relax and take a break from studying.
Aside from food and drink, we’d recommend taking a walk to Tooting Common to experience Tooting Lido – a 300ft by 100ft outdoor swimming pool which is very popular in the summer months.
It was also featured in the film Snatch starring Brad Pitt.
As well as all this, we have Tooting Market – a vibrant up and coming space with independent stores including a winery, a brewery, a gin bar and an Italian restaurant where your order is handmade and cooked in an open fire oven right in front of you.
With a DJ playing chilled reggae until the early hours each Friday and Saturday night, it's the perfect spot to relax with friends.
With cheap, fresh fruit and vegetables available daily, Tooting Market is sure to become a staple during your time at St George’s.
If that last point about fresh fruit and veg is more to your liking, you can further your healthy lifestyle by joining one of the local gyms in Tooting which are easily walkable from our campus.
PureGym Wandsworth is open 24/7 with free exercise classes for members and membership from only £15.99 a month, as well as associated benefits for students.
Tooting Leisure Centre is also close by and offers a gym, swimming pool and sports court hire – keeping fit at George’s couldn't be easier.
Of course, as we are part of the University of London, you are also free to use University of London Union (ULU) facilities and services, take part in ULU events and join its clubs and societies, most of which are based in and around the city centre.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/societies-and-activities:
As a City St George’s student, you automatically qualify for membership of the Students' Union (SU) .
Almost a whole floor is devoted to the Students’ Union Tooting branch, which exists to represent your interests, look after your welfare and enrich your social life.
The Tooting Students’ Union also organises events and allows students to create societies dedicated to sports, cultures or specialisms.
During your first week at City St George’s Tooting campus, the SU will play a key role in welcoming you.
For information about Freshers’ Week, follow the SU’s Facebook page to stay up to date and avoid missing out on event tickets.
You also get the added benefit of being part of the National Union of Students (NUS) and University of London Union (ULU) , which offers support and advice, along with social events you can take part in at its central London headquarters just 30 minutes away.
A spacious bar hosts regular club and band nights, quizzes and sports and film screenings.
We also have a games room, a music room, a café, a dance studio and several counselling and welfare rooms.
SU sabbatical officers sit on most City St George’s committees, making sure the student voice is heard.
Becoming a year or course representative means you can make a real difference to the lives of your fellow students and develop some leadership skills for yourself.
Our hockey, rowing, football, netball, rugby union, cricket, fencing and many other teams are always on the lookout for new members.
Whether you are international standard or have never played sport in your life, City St George’s offers teams to suit your abilities.
The majority of our sports teams play in the British Universities & Colleges Sport (BUCS) and The London Universities Sport Leagues (LUSL) cups.
There is also the added competition of the historic inter-medical-school battles in the United Hospitals and National Medical Schools competitions.
Run by students for students, our teams and groups strive to provide the best possible choice of social and sporting activities.
If all that sport sounds a bit too strenuous or you would like to balance physical activity with something a bit different, you can join one of our varied societies.
The arts are well represented by musical, drama and comedy societies that produce regular shows.
Other societies include Islamic, Hindu, Christian, Jewish, Adventure Sports, Modern Languages, Film and Photography.
We also have many highly active and exciting societies for students who are interested in voluntary work within the local and wider community.
City St George’s (Tooting campus) is famed in university circles for its RAG Week exploits.
We regularly raise the highest amount of money per head for charitable causes of any university in the UK.
The annual target is in excess of £100,000.
The RAG Week, which is normally held in February, consists of varied events including traditional favourites such as the Valentine’s Disco and RAG Auction.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/student-support:
Guides and information on healthy living, occupational health, mental health, personal safety and emergencies.
Use our online form to report a case of bullying or harassment at St George's.
Access our multi-faith, multi-denominational support for students.
The centre is open throughout the week to help with all of your queries and problems.
Our advisors are here to support any student or potential student with a disability or specific needs.
Our guides to fees, student loans, funding and other financial advice for students.
An A-Z list of the student support resources available at St George's, University of London.
Advice on what to do, and the support available during a welfare emergency.
Use this area to find information, advice and guidance to support you when preparing for and taking assessments.
Peer mental health support by trained students to provide listening support sessions to students who self-refer to the project.
As current events continue to affect the lives of many of our staff and students, we wanted to reassure you that help and support is available at St George's.
Contact the Student Life Centre for support with all student matters.
St George’s, University of London has signed the Stand Alone pledge - a national pledge outlining support for students who are estranged from their families.
Find out more about the support available.
St George's has a comprehensive Contextual Admissions policy, and Care Leavers are eligible for pre-application support, contextual offers and post-application support.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/campus-life:
Our students have access to a wide range of excellent facilities on campus.
Explore below to find out more about our state-of-the-art educational and research facilities,  spaces for socialising or extra-curricular activities and our vibrant local neighbourhood: Tooting, in south west London.
Here at City St George’s Tooting campus we have dedicated facilities to help you prepare for the clinical environment.
We're fully equipped with up-to-date educational facilities, and we have a bar, social spaces, cafes, restaurants and shops.
As we share our Tooting site with one of the UK’s largest teaching hospitals, you'll learn in a busy healthcare environment.
Our research facilities enable university and Trust researchers to offer and run high-quality clinical trials for our patients and volunteers.
Learn more about our £20m investment in our Tooting campus, designed to enhance your learning and working environment.
City St George’s (Tooting campus) is based in Tooting in south west London and has so much to offer.
City St George’s has its own Halls of Residence, Horton Halls, within a 15 minute walk of the Tooting campus.
Find out what makes us such a unique institution and discover the vibrant student life that is at the heart of our community.
Learn more

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/information-for-mature-students:
These include accelerated study options on our paramedic sciences course, tailored entry options into physiotherapy, and our four-year medical degree that is designed to help mature students train to be doctors.
We welcome applications from mature students.
There is no upper age limit for any of our courses as we are looking for the best students regardless of their age.
Many different qualifications are acceptable although it is always better to check.
Here at City St George’s we do take life experience into account, although you must meet the requirements for a course.
Entry requirements can be found on our undergraduate and postgraduate course listings .
Please contact our student recruitment team if you have any questions about applying to City St George’s.
Mature students often choose to live in their own home while studying with us.
However, if you choose to apply to our halls of residence, undergraduate and international postgraduate students are prioritised for a place in their first year.
Most, if not all, of these students will secure a room at Horton Halls .
If you are moving to London as a couple or with your family, there is plenty of private accommodation to rent in the local area.
We advise you to come to London on your own before starting your course, to find somewhere suitable for you and your family to live.
We can't offer accommodation for couples, children or family members, but do recommend International Students House or the University of London's Property Management Unit as suitable alternatives.
Our student support services are available for all students and include academic support from personal tutors, careers support and disability support.
Find out more about the support available .
The City St George’s Students' Union runs the Student Parents and Carers Empowered (SPACE) group , which is dedicated to supporting all student parents and carers throughout their studies at City St George’s.
For more information, or if you have any queries about studying at  City George’s as a parent, you can email the association at space@su.sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/frequently-asked-questions:
Below are questions frequently asked by new or prospective students at St George's.
We’re based in Tooting, South West London.
This is in Zone 3 on the tube , about 25 minutes away from central London.
We are concentrated on a single campus, unlike most city universities.
We share a site with one of the UK’s largest teaching hospitals, St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust .
We have a range of facilities, including: teaching rooms, state-of-the-art simulation spaces and laboratories.
We also have facilities for research, student support and socialising.
We have more than 5,000 students across all of our subjects and CPD (Continuing Professional Development) courses.
Most of our courses run from September to June or July, although term dates vary slightly by course and year of study.
You will be given your timetable before starting your course.
Some students can manage a part-time job alongside their studies – but this will depend on your timetable and workload.
Because of the varied nature of our courses, students may find that casual work provides the most flexibility.
St George’s has a well-developed Student Ambassador scheme which provides flexible work for many of our students.
This can range from giving directions at Open Days and leading campus tours to visiting schools to deliver workshops and training.
It is important to keep in mind that most of our students spend a large amount of time on placement.
During placement periods, you are be expected to be available full-time, and this can limit your availability for part-time work.
If you choose to work alongside your studies, it’s important to find a balance and to ensure that you always put your studies first.
Students usually move into their accommodation the weekend before term starts.
Our Students’ Union organises a fantastic range of welcome events for new students.
These include meet and greets, club nights, parties at the Students’ Union bar on campus and the popular Freshers’ Fair, where our clubs and societies show you what they’ve got to offer.
During this week, you will also have induction lectures and classes with your tutors and course mates.
Our halls of residence, Horton Halls, are located approximately 15 minutes’ walk from the campus.
They consist of 332 standard en suite rooms and 154 premium rooms, divided into flats of four to eight people.
Read more about our accommodation here.
Undergraduate home and EU students, as well as international undergraduate and postgraduate students, are prioritised for places at Horton Halls in their first year.
Most of these students will secure a room at Horton Halls.
We have a number of women-only and male-only flats available.
Our accommodation team will try to ensure that everyone who requests a room in a single-gender flat is accommodated.
When you join St George’s, you automatically become a member of St George’s Students’ Union , the recognised body which represents all our students.
As well as great facilities such as the SU bar, dance studio, music room and rec room, the Union offers volunteering opportunities, events, activities and advice for students.
Although studying is very rewarding, we know it can also be stressful.
To help you get through any difficulties, we offer all students a confidential counselling service.
Open to students and staff of all faiths or none, the St George’s Chaplaincy represents the main faith communities on campus.
Our Students’ Union also has a number of faith societies which provide students with an opportunity to support each other spiritually, discuss and debate faith issues, and hold events.
St George’s has a tradition of mentoring incoming students, where new students are supported by established ones and helped to settle in.
You will be paired up with student ‘parents’ during your first week who can answer questions and provide support.
Tel: + (44) 020 8266 6344
Email: studentcentre@sgul.ac.uk
If you have any further questions, please don’t hesitate to contact the accommodation office or our student recruitment team, who’ll be able to help further.
Email: admissions@sgul.ac.uk
Email: accommodation@sgul.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)20 8266 6348
Email: study@sgul.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)20 8725 2333
If you are based outside of the UK/EU, please use the details below instead.
Email: global@sgul.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)20 8266 6791

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/widening-participation:
City St George’s is committed to providing the opportunity of higher education to all students who can benefit from it, regardless of circumstance and background.
We run a wide range of outreach activities for students from Years 5–12.
These activities vary in their aims, scope and reach, but are targeted predominantly at students from under-represented groups who meet our widening participation priority criteria, such as those with little or no family history of higher education, those receiving free school meals or Pupil Premium, those who are from areas or schools with low progression rates to HE, and students who are in local authority care.
We also make sure that students from underrepresented groups who enrol in our programmes succeed in their courses and progress successfully into employment or future study, particularly care leavers , mature students and disabled students .
We are proud to work in collaboration with a range of partners, including St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, with whom we run our successful Healthcare Shadowing Scheme.
Explore our web pages to find out more about the activities we offer and the support we provide to prospective applicants and to our current students.
Email us for more information.
We deliver a range of activities all year round to pre-16 and post-16 students.
Find out more below about the welfare and support services we offer prospective applicants and current students.
The plan shows our commitment to providing equal opportunities to underrepresented groups across the student lifecycle.
We are committed to ensuring people from all walks of life are represented in our university community and future workforce.
We are proud to offer a travel bursary to support such students to attend key events at St George’s.
We take data protection seriously, shown through our commitment to our privacy policy for widening participation activities.
Find out below why and how we collect data.
The Teachers’ Guide has been produced by UniTasterDays.com in collaboration with HELOA - to support the university guidance that is provided in secondary schools and colleges.
Editorial has been provided by universities throughout the UK (including St George’s, University of London) on topics covering how to support students with their university decisions, university events, widening participation & fair access, UCAS applications (including writing school references) and many more.
Get yours (no registration required) at: www.unitasterdays.com/teachersguide

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/widening-participation/widening-participation-activities:
We deliver a range of activities all year round to pre-16 and post-16 students, many of which are delivered by our student ambassadors.
We work closely with the Student Recruitment team who organise open days, tours and visits to various schools across London.
Schools and colleges can get in contact with them directly to find out more about the opportunities available.
We also work in partnership with other organisations such as The Brilliant Club .
We offer the following activities.
Years 5–6
Primary Practice
Year 11
Year 12
Insight to Healthcare
Careers Fairs
Year 13
Mock interview practice and interview support webianrs
We have compiled a list of helpful resources and advice to help you to find out more about the subjects we offer and which course might be right for you.
More guides will be added to this page shortly.
Learn more about our range of activities for pre-16 students.
Discover our range of post-16 activities, including school and college visits.
The Science Star’ raising attainment programme aims to boost year 11 pupils’ GCSE grades.
Find out how.
City St George's students are invited to join our Primary Practice programme to help local primary school children explore different careers in healthcare and develop a range of skills, from basic sign language to teamwork.
We deliver a variety of workshops and talks online using video conferencing software.
In order to facilitate these, and to create a safe space online for those participating, we have compiled online Code of Conducts.
We require anyone who is planning to attend one of our online events to read these codes of conduct before attending an event.
By joining the virtual event you are confirming that you have read and understood City St Georges, University of London’s Online Code of Conduct (PDF) and Zoom Expectations and Code of Conduct (PDF).
You are welcome to contact Widening Participation Manager, Alice Long via along@citystgeorges.ac.uk should you have any questions you would like to raise, either about the code of conduct or about attending events online.
If you are attending an event onsite we require you to read our Onsite Code of Conduct (PDF) before attending.
This outlines the expectations we have of visitors attending events with us.
Please ensure you have read and understood this before attending an onsite event.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/widening-participation/support-for-prospective-applicants:
Current students at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences can access a wide range of welfare and support services through our Student Centre, including careers advice, a counselling service and a comprehensive personal tutor system of academic points of contact and support.
Prospective applicants to City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences are very welcome to contact our Student Centre to ask specific questions and find out more about the support available.
We also offer support to specific groups of students who are thinking about applying to City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences, such as care leavers , mature learners and disabled students .
The City St George’s Students’ Union provides a range of peer support services too.
We offer information, advice and support to care leavers throughout your university journey.
Discover our information, support and advice for students who are estranged from their families.
We are proud to offer a travel bursary to support such students to attend key events at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/widening-participation/access-and-participation-plan:
Our Access and Participation Plan has been developed as part of our registration with the Office for Students, which is the independent regulator of higher education for England.
It outlines how we aim to ensure equality of opportunity for a range of underrepresented groups in relation to access to, success in and progression from higher education.
Download our latest Access and Participation Plan here (PDF) or read the executive summary here (PDF).
These documents were formerly known as Access Agreements.
All our previous Access and Participation Plans and Access Agreements can be found online on the Office for Students website .
The Office for Students has published our provider impact report (PDF) for the monitoring of our 2019-20 access and participation plan.
The report summarises our progress against targets, objectives and written commitments made in the plan.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/widening-participation/contextual-admissions:
As the UK’s specialist health university, we select applicants based on their potential for success in their chosen course and, where relevant, profession.
We are committed to ensuring people from all walks of life are represented as part of our university community and the future health workforce.
We know that not everyone starts life with the same opportunities and so we use additional information, including school performance data and socio-economic markers, to review the context within which applicants achieved their qualifications.
Our Contextual Admissions policy is open to St George’s applicants who are:
Some of the information we review is drawn from your UCAS application form and some you will need to declare on your St George's application portal once your application is submitted.
Access to your St George's portal is granted once we receive your application from UCAS.
Please note that the Contextual Admissions policy is reviewed annually for each admissions cycle and may be updated in the future.
We offer three schemes under the Contextual Admissions policy.
These are, pre-application support , contextual offers and post-application support .
The type and amount of support available to you will depend on which of the eligibility criteria you meet, as covered below.
For example, some applicants may be eligible for pre-application support, a contextual offer and post-application support, but other applicants may not be eligible for a contextual offer.
If you meet the eligibility criteria for groups 1 , 2 or 3 you will be eligible for pre-application support.
Examples of some of the support available include:
If you meet Group 1 eligibility criteria specifically you will also receive bespoke advice regarding available support as well as tailored visit days to the University.
You can only be considered for this type of support by notifying our Widening Participation team using this webform .
You will not be required to provide proof of meeting our eligibility criteria in order to receive pre-application support.
All applicants who meet eligibility criteria for groups 1 and 2 are eligible to be considered for a contextual offer.
Under our contextual offer scheme, you could be made an offer two grades lower than our standard conditional offer (even if your predicted grades are higher).
The two-grade reduction for contextual offers applies to A Level, International Baccalaureate (IB) and Scottish Higher grades only and is applied across two subjects, rather than the requirement for one subject being reduced by two grades.
The reduction will apply to the highest-grade requirements.
Below are examples of how we might adjust a grade requirement through our contextual offer scheme.
Example standard offer
Example contextual offer
A Level requirement
AAA
ABB
BBC
CCC
IB requirement
32 Overall (5,5,5 at Higher Level)
30 Overall (5,4,4 at Higher Level)
Scottish Highers requirement
Highers: BBB
Advanced Highers: BB
Advanced Highers: CC
You will still need to meet all other course-specific academic and non-academic entry requirements.
When you apply to study at St George's, you will be asked to complete a Contextual Admissions declaration.
The information you provide on the declaration, along with some information provided to us by UCAS will let us know if you qualify for a contextual offer.
If your application is successful and you are completing the qualifications named above, your offer will be issued two-grades lower than our standard requirements.
You do not need to do anything further for us to know that you are eligible.
However, if you do receive a contextual offer you will need to provide the Admissions team with evidence of you meeting the eligibility criteria.
We may include non-academic conditions in your offer requesting to see evidence that you meet our contextual offer eligibility criteria.
The type of evidence you will need to provide will depend on which criteria you meet (please see the list below for more details).
Please see the below information for the evidence we may request as proof of your eligibility for each criteria.
You will be required to mention this in your personal statement as well as ensuring that your referee includes acknowledgement of this status in their written reference on your application.
You will be required to provide evidence of a Carer Support Plan.
If you do not have a Carer Support Plan in place, you will be required to provide alternative evidence.
In line with recommendations from Carers Trust , the evidence may take the form of any of the following:
You will be required to provide evidence of either your UKVI letter confirming refugee status or confirmation of a current pending application for refugee status.
You will not be required to provide anything further to evidence this as we receive all the necessary information for this criteria within your UCAS application.
You will not be required to provide anything further to evidence this as we receive all the necessary information for this criteria within your UCAS application.
Post-application support is split into support available for applicants (pre-offer), and offer holders (post-offer).
If you meet the eligibility criteria for groups 1 , 2 and 3 you will be eligible for some pre-offer and post-offer support.
This includes applicants who have not received a contextual offer (2-grade reduction), such as those applicants with qualifications other than A Levels, IB or Scottish Highers.
Post-application support includes:
The information you provide on the declaration, along with some information provided to us by UCAS will let us know if you qualify for post-application support.
The specific type of support you are eligible for may require evidence.
If you are eligible for any of this support you will be given further instructions on how to apply and prove your eligiblity at the appropriate stage of your application.
To be eligible for any of our Contextual Admissions schemes, you must fall into one of the three criteria groups below and be applying for one of our eligible courses .
You will qualify for a contextual offer and pre-/post-application support if you meet one or more of the below four criteria:
You will meet this criteria if you are currently, or have previously been:
You will meet this criteria if you are a young person aged 14-25 who cares, unpaid, for a friend or family member who could not cope without their support.
This may be due to illness, disability, a mental health issue or substance misuse.
You will meet this criteria if you are either:
A refugee - someone whose claim for asylum has been recognised and they have been granted official 'refugee' status.
An asylum seeker - someone who has applied for refugee status and is waiting to find out if it has been granted.
You will meet this criteria if you are a young person aged 14-25 who is studying without the support and approval of your parents/guardians due to a breakdown in your relationship.
You will qualify for a contextual offer and pre-/post-application support if you meet two , or more, of the below five criteria:
If you are applying from a school in England with an average A Level grade of C- or below you will meet this criteria.
A list of eligible schools for 2025 entry can be viewed here.
(PDF)
Please note:
If you are applying from a school in England that is in the bottom 40% in England for progression to Higher Education you will meet this criteria.
We measure this using the Government’s POLAR4 classifications.
POLAR is a measure of how likely young people in different areas of the country are to go on to Higher Education.
This measure is updated periodically, and we are now on the fourth version – hence ‘POLAR4’.
It sorts each area into five groups (‘quintiles’) based on this rate – quintile 1 areas have the fewest people going on to higher education, and quintile 5 the most.
To meet this criteria you must live in a quintile 1 or 2 area .
In other words, you must live in an area that is in the bottom 40% of the country in terms of young people going into Higher Education.
You can check your POLAR4 quintile number on the Office for Students website .
We measure this using the Government’s Indices of Multiple Deprivation (IMD).
IMD uses the seven aspects below to classify the relative deprivation of small areas across the country:
IMD data sorts each area into ten groups (‘deciles’) based on the classification – decile 1 areas have the most perceived deprivation relative to other areas, and decile 10 has the least.
To meet this criteria you must live in a decile 1 or 2 area .
In other words, you must be in an area that is classified in the bottom 20% of the country in terms of perceived deprivation.
You can check your local area by searching your postcode at gov.uk .
If you are in receipt of free school meals (FSM), you will have met the Government's eligibility criteria, which varies slightly depending on where you live.
Information on these criteria is available on the relevant Government websites: England , Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales , or you could ask your school if you are not sure.
If you meet one of the following criteria, you will be offered pre- and post-application support, although not a contextual offer:
You will meet this criteria if your parent or carer currently serves in the British Armed Forces as a Regular or a Reservist, or has done so at any point during the first 25 years of your life.
The term 'Gypsy, Roma and Traveller' encompasses a wide range of individuals who may be defined in relation to their ethnicity, heritage, way of life and how they self-identify.
This includes applicants from the following backgrounds:
You will be considered a mature student if you are a non-graduate applicant who will be aged 21 and over when you enter Higher Education.
You may be eligible for our Contextual Admissions schemes if you apply to the following undergraduate courses:
If you are eligible for pre- and post-application support (Groups 1 , 2 and 3 ) for an undergraduate programme (excluding the Graduate Entry Medicine programme), you are eligible for travel bursaries enabling you to attend open days, applicant interviews (where applicable), and offer holder days.
Travel bursaries are available to cover reasonable costs on public transport or reimbursement of petrol costs for UK travel.
Travel bursaries can be claimed for travel by any form of public transport, standard class travel only.
If travelling by rail, you are required to purchase tickets in advance of the travel.
Rail tickets purchased on the day of the event will not be reimbursed.
Only your own travel will be reimbursed (i.e.
for one person), unless you require care or assistance to get to or at the event/interview.
In this instance, or in other exceptional circumstances, St George’s may be able to cover the travel costs of an additional attendee after agreement from the Widening Participation team .
Travel bursaries can be claimed via reimbursement, so you will need to purchase your travel before receiving payment from us.
No payments ahead of booking are available.
The process for which to claim a travel bursary is as follows:
Book onto the St George’s event /interview.
Submit a travel bursary application via this application form.
Wait to hear the outcome the travel bursary application.
Reimbursement is not guaranteed until the application has been approved.
Book required travel tickets/plan the journey in advance of event/interview.
Complete the travel bursary claim form which will be emailed with the travel bursary applicational approval, and submit it to wp@sgul.ac.uk .
Travel bursaries will be processed after the event/interview in question; reimbursements may take up to 3 weeks to be received by the bank.
In the event that you are unable to purchase tickets upfront, you can contact the Widening Participation team who may be able to purchase these on your behalf.
If you have any questions about claiming for a travel bursary, please contact the Widening Participation team .
If you are eligible for post-application support (Groups 1 , 2 and 3 ) and hold a Conditional Firm offer for a clinical undergraduate programme (excluding the Graduate Entry Medicine programme), you are eligible for the Fitness to Practise (FTP) bursary.
Fitness to Practise checks are not a requirement for non-clinical programmes, or whilst an applicant to a clinical programme is holding a conditional offer with no response, or with the response of insurance or decline.
The FTP bursary amounts to £85 for applicants to use towards the cost of the non-academic conditions of their offer, including:
The FTP bursary may not cover the full costs of these checks, however it will provide support towards the total amount.
FTP bursaries are only available in the academic year your application is submitted.
If you defer your application to a later entry year, you will still need to complete your Fitness to Practise checks, and therefore claim the FTP bursary, in the academic year you initially apply.
In other words, you are eligible for an FTP bursary when you are holding a Conditional Firm offer only.
FTP bursaries can be claimed at the point of eligibility before any Fitness to Practise checks have been conducted, if necessary.
You will be informed of how to claim the bursary by email if you are eligible, and go on to hold a Conditional Firm offer with us.
Payments may take up to 3 weeks to be received by the bank in which case you may be required to start your Fitness to Practise checks before receiving the FTP bursary in order to meet the required deadline (as stated in the condition of the offer).
The deadline by which the Fitness to Practise checks are required will not be extended due to a delay in claiming and/or receiving the FTP bursary.
If you have any questions about claiming for an FTP bursary, and you are a Conditional Firm offer holder with us, please contact the Admissions team .
Our Contextual Admissions schemes are only currently available to applicants from within the UK, so we have selected the main qualifications studied within the UK to be included in the contextual offer scheme.
We have evidence to suggest that a two-grade reduction across two subjects for these qualifications does not impact on a Contextual Admissions applicants' progression within Higher Education.
In future we may broaden this to include more qualifications; however at present these are the only qualifications eligible for this scheme.
Our Contextual Admissions policy has been produced in line with our requirements for Access and Participation, as set by the Office for Students.
Our requirements currently only include Access and Participation for UK students and applicants, however we may look to broaden our policy in future to include international applicants.
Read more about the St George's Access and Participation plan .
Our Contextual Admissions schemes are designed to make Higher Education more accessible, and are not designed to disadvantage anyone.
We want to ensure that those who have the potential to succeed at St George’s have the opportunity to apply.
Whilst the pool of applicants eligible to apply to St George’s may grow, no applicants outside of our Contextual Admissions schemes will be disadvantaged.
All applicants will be considered equally and for those courses that interview, offers will be given to applicants based on their interview score.
You may need to mention Contextual Admissions in your personal statement if this is listed as one of the evidence requirements for a criteria you meet ( please read the full criteria evidence requirements under the details for each scheme above ).
Otherwise, all you need to do is submit your UCAS application and complete your Contextual Admissions declaration form on the St George's applicant portal.
However, you are also welcome to mention anything in your personal statement that you feel demonstrates your motivation to study at St George’s, which may include aspects that qualify you for our Contextual Admissions schemes.
Contextual Admissions and extenuating circumstances are different.
Those with extenuating circumstances will have their specific situation considered but this will not make them eligible for our Contextual Admissions schemes.
Read more about extenuating circumstances .
Once you have submitted your UCAS application and completed your Contextual Admissions declaration form on the St George's applicant portal, you will see a flag on your applicant portal (below personal details) to confirm if you are eligible.
Additionally, if your application is successful and you receive a contextual offer from us, we will include confirmation of this in your offer letter, including specific conditions (if applicable).
If you receive an offer but choose to defer your entry, we will honour your Contextual Offer based on your eligibility during your application year, regardless of entry year.
As with all deferred offers, all offer conditions must be met in the application year before you defer.
This includes your Fitness to Practise conditions (if applicable) which impacts your eligibility to claim an FTP bursary.
We are using the schools data from the last three years to try to provide some stability to applicants who choose to delay applying.
That means if you’re looking at the schools list now, but want to apply next year, you’ll still be eligible for this criteria within Contextual Admissions.
Currently our Contextual Admissions schemes apply to undergraduate applicants only.
However, we are looking to broaden our approach to Contextual Admissions and may update our policy in future years.
Download: Contextual Admissions Policy 2023 (PDF)

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/widening-participation/our-privacy-policy-for-widening-participation-activities:
Collecting student data helps us assess and evaluate the value and impact of our widening participation activities.
This helps us to plan and deliver activities that are fit for purpose, to make sure that we are working with and targeting the right types of students, and to evaluate and report on the effectiveness and impact of our widening participation work.
As well as the privacy notice below, we also have this widening participation privacy notice for student ambassadors (PDF).
At City St George’s, University of London, we want to make sure we protect any information we collect about you.
When you give us information about yourself (also known as data), we have rules we have to follow about what we can do with it.
We must explain how we use that data and tell you if we want to pass it on to anyone else.
This notice sets out how any personal data you provide us will be processed.
For additional information regarding our services and on how we use cookies please refer to our Terms & Conditions.
City St George’s, University of London School of Health & Medical Sciences is a higher education institution located in Tooting, South London, and is a member of the University of London.We are the ‘Data Controller’ of the information you provide us with, and we are registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) for the purposes of UK data protection legislation, registration number Z5770328.
If you would like more information about how we collect, use and store your personal data, you can contact our university Data Protection Officer at:
Email: wp@sgul.ac.uk
Telephone: 0208 266 6483
Address: Widening Participation, City St George’s University of London (Tooting campus), Cranmer Terrace, London, SW17 0RE.
In order to carry out our public task as a university and work to improve equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups in higher education, we collect your personal data when you apply to or attend a City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences Widening Participation event.
This personal information is collected through the application form for the event.
While the exact information we collect varies between events, typical data that we might collect include:
We also collect some more sensitive data, or special category data, on the basis of the substantial public interest of our agenda to widen participation from particular underrepresented groups in higher education.
This includes information about:
Some of this information, such as your telephone number or any special requirements that you may have on the day of the event, is collected for administrative purposes, and will be deleted or anonymized after the event.
Some of the data collected will be used to select participants at the event, to ensure that our outreach work is being targeted at the most appropriate underrepresented groups.
We also collect and retain some of your data for research and evaluation, to help us monitor who our outreach work is reaching and how effective it is at achieving its goals.
This includes monitoring the characteristics of students applying to and attending our events, and tracking participants to see if they enter higher education.
We will indicate on the application form what data will be deleted after the event, what will be used for selection, and what will be used for monitoring and evaluation purposes.
Your personal data will be processed by City St George’s, University of London as the data controllers.
We keep your information securely stored where access is restricted to authorised staff only.
We may share your data with third parties when necessary for research or evaluation purposes.
If we do share your data we will ensure that appropriate agreements are in place to govern how the third party uses and stores your data.
One of the tools that we use to monitor and evaluate our outreach work is the Higher Education Access Tracker, or HEAT.
HEAT is a non-profit service that helps universities across England monitor and evaluate their outreach programs.
We may share your data with HEAT in order to track your progress into higher education and beyond.
Further information on HEAT can be found on their website here: heat.ac.uk
We only keep your data when necessary to fulfill our agenda of improving equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups in higher education, so when appropriate we will delete or anonymize your personal data after an event (see What we do with your data ).
When your data is necessary to evaluate and monitor our outreach work, we retain your data in line with HEAT's retention schedule.
This usually means keeping your data until you are 30 years old, or for 15 years from your graduation if you enter higher education.
For more details, please see HEAT's retention schedule .
You have a right to access your personal data, to object to the processing of your personal data, to change, erase, restrict and move your personal data.
To request a copy of the personal data we hold for you, to correct or update this data, or if you have queries about any of your other rights regarding our use of your personal data, please contact the University Data Protection Officer using the contact details below.
Email: dataprotection@sgul.ac.uk
Telephone: 020 8725 0668
Address: Data Protection Officer, Information Services, City St George’s University of London (Tooting campus), Cranmer Terrace, London, SW17 0RE.
If you are unhappy with the way in which your personal data is being processed you may, in the first instance, lodge a complaint with the University Data Protection Officer using the contact details above.
If you continue to have concerns thereafter you have the right to contact the Information Commissioner for a decision.
The Information Commissioner can be contacted as below
Helpline: 0303 123 1113
Website: ico.org.uk/your-data-matters/raising-concerns/ .
Any changes to our privacy policy will be posted on the City St George’s website, and where appropriate notified to you by email.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/widening-participation/widening-participation-travel-bursary:
City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences is committed to providing the opportunity of higher education to all students who can benefit from it, regardless of circumstance and background.
We also want to ensure that students from underrepresented groups are able to attend on-site events at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus) in order to make informed choices about their future.
We are proud to offer a travel bursary to support such students to attend key events at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus).
The travel bursary is available to cover reasonable costs on public transport or reimbursement of petrol costs.
Please note, travel by taxis is not included in the travel bursary.
Click on each of the sections below to find out if you are eligible for the bursary and how to apply.
The travel bursary can be used to cover travel for:
You are eligible to apply for the travel bursary if you meet the contextual admissions criteria stipulated for your prospective year of entry.
Please note: We are currently only able to offer the travel bursary to students considering study on undergraduate courses at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus).
Book onto the CIty St George’s event /interview.
Please note: The travel bursary is a finite amount of money.
Therefore, once the threshold for reimbursement has been met for allocated events, we will be unable to provide reimbursement.
To mitigate for this, we allocate certain amounts of the budget to events and activities across the year to allow us to support as many applicants as possible.
We've compiled the following list of frequently asked questions  to help answer questions you may have about the travel bursary.
Click each question to reveal the answer.
Any type of public transport, standard class travel only .
If you’re travelling by car, petrol costs can also be reimbursed.
Please note, travel by taxis is not included in the travel bursary.
We can pay 40p per mile , calculated from your place of residence to City St George’s (Tooting campus) and back using Google Maps .
You don’t need to provide petrol costs or receipts.
The maximum amount you can claim for is £200 .
Electronic receipts/booking confirmation emails detailing your journey booking and payment confirmation.
The cost of your travel tickets and details of the journey must be clearly indicated.
Bank or credit card statements are not acceptable forms of proof.
We will aim to get back to you within 5 working days with the outcome of your application.
In the first instance only the attendee’s travel will be paid.
However, if you need care or assistance to get to or at the event, or in other exceptional circumstances, we may be able to cover the travel costs of an additional attendee.
If this applies to you please contact us at wp@sgul.ac.uk .
In most instances, yes .
However, if it will be difficult for you to purchase tickets upfront please contact us at wp@sgul.ac.uk as we may be able to purchase them in advance for you.
Yes, your travel claim must be submitted within 3 months of purchase – as we will not usually process your claim until after the event, please ensure that you do not book your travel more than 3 months in advance of the event.
If you do not meet any of the criteria listed but require assistance with travel costs to a City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus) open day/interview/applicant or offer holder day, please get in touch by emailing wp@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/visit-us:
Our campus is co-located with one of the country’s principal teaching hospitals – St George’s Hospital in Tooting, southwest London.
We offer a several ways to see our campus and surrounding area.
You can attend one of our virtual or onsite open days, join course webinars, take a campus tour or watch our virtual campus tour video.
Join us for a tour of the Tooting campus student accommodation, Horton Halls.
Join us for a campus tour of City St Georges (Tooting campus) or a tour of our student accommodation - see what our campus has to offer.
Watch our Tooting campus tour video to find out more about what it’s like to study here and get a sense of our space, facilities, and campus services from the comfort of your own home!
If you’d like to receive our newsletters which are full of useful information for prospective students, please fill in your details by clicking the button below:

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/course-terms-and-conditions:
An offer of a place at City St George’s, University of London, Tooting is made on the basis that you accept all of the University’s Terms and Conditions and our Regulations and Policies.
This page provides links to these and an overview of them.
Please make time to acquaint yourself with your rights and our expectations.
The information about courses and university services is accurate at the time of it being published (online and in print).
Information about each of our courses can be found on the Study pages where you will also find information about fees and funding and any additional course-specific costs.
Current students will receive information about our updated terms and conditions via email by 31 August 2024 .
You can view all university policies for the university in our policy A to Z .
Please note: Until further updates, please consider 'St George's, University of London' to refer to 'City St George's, University of London' within these policies.
As a prospective student we would like to drawn your attention to the following specific policies, which can also be found in our policies A to Z:

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/contact-us:
There are several ways to get in touch with us.
Please choose the relevant option for you from the options below.
If you are considering applying to City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting courses) for 2025 or 2026 entry and have any further questions, please submit an enquiry using the form below .
You can also contact the Course Enquiries Team directly by emailing study@sgul.ac.uk or phoning 020 3897 2032 (Monday to Friday, 2pm - 4pm).
If you have applied to study with us and have a query about your application, please review your acknowledgement (or offer) email for how to contact the Admissions Team.
Alternatively, you can contact us via the applicant portal.
The operating hours for the switchboard are from 9am to 5pm on Monday to Friday.
Phone: 020 8672 9944
Address: Cranmer Terrace, Tooting, London SW17 0RE
Contact our press office if you have a media enquiry about City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences.
We are now operating on an urgent media enquiry basis through email and the out-of-hours press office number.
Email: communications@sgul.ac.uk
Out of hours: +44 (0)7909 523 089.
To contact a member of staff, use our people finder .
Click the button below to submit your enquiry to our Course Enquiries Team via our short online form.
Want to know more about student life at City St George's City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences?
Send a message to one of our student ambassadors on Unibuddy.
This service is available to prospective enquirers and applicants for any year of entry and level of study.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research:
Read about our objectives and see the impact our research is having on the world.
Learn more about our leading research and teaching facilities.
Join us in building a positive research culture where you feel empowered to do your best work and develop your career.
Find out how our research leads towards clinical outcomes.
Meet our groundbreaking researcher teams.
Find out about the national assessment of the impact and quality of research.
We believe that quality research starts with quality services.
Find out how Research Operations can support you.
Learn more about our leading image resource and clinical and biological research facilities.
Research projects should undergo appropriate ethical assessments.
Research integrity is about conducting research in a way that allows the public to have trust and confidence in our research outputs.
We are dedicated to conducting research responsibly.
Find out more about our ethical standards.
Joint Research and Enterprise Services supports, manages and facilitates research and enterprise across St George’s.
Learn more.
Equal representation in academia (ERA) is an initiative to raise awareness of academic research careers for students from ethnic minorities.
Research day is an annual event held in December to showcase the world class research done at St George’s.
Discover our diverse research events and join the conversation.
Spotlight on Science returned to our campus on Friday 29th November.
The first event of the new series focused on the importance of good heart and blood vessel health with three expert speakers.
Researchers from City St George’s have secured funding for a project that aims to streamline infectious disease data using AI to help address key global health targets.
29 November 2024

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/about-our-research:
Here at City St George's we have three broad objectives for our research work:
Our focus has meant that we are well equipped to respond to the international Coronavirus pandemic.
Find out more about what our researchers are doing to combat the pandemic and how you can support our Coronavirus Action Fund.
So it’s not surprising that despite our small size, we were ranked joint 8th in the UK for research impact in 2021.
We have five research institutes covering our broad research themes; Cardiovascular and Genetics , Neurosciences and Cell Biology , Population Health Research , The Centre for Allied Health and Infection and Immunity Each consists of a number of research groups focused on specific topics ranging from antimicrobial resistance to sudden death in the young .
Across the university, we also have crosscutting themes: Genomics & Genetics and Healthy Ageing.
Similarly, our expertise in bioinformatics and statistics supports the needs of many of our research groups.
And we all work together to develop clinical and scientific research careers, as well as to increase public engagement with our science.
These universal themes bring a sense of continuity and community to everything we do.
We're continuing to strengthen the global connections that build on our successes and multiply the impact of our work.
Our researchers are forging new partnerships and collaborations both within the university and around the world, generating novel projects and winning the funding to bring them to fruition.
Read some of the research that saw St George's ranked 4th in the UK for impact.
See how St George's impact is transforming healthcare around the world.
Keep up to date with the groundbreaking research taking place at St George's.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-impact:
Your donation will help our experts to contribute to national and international efforts to tackle coronavirus.
St George’s has established itself as the UK’s primary site for investigating deaths in the young caused by sudden cardiac arrests.
The KEF scores universities against strict criteria allowing them to better understand and improve their own performance.
This framework is a national assessment of the impact and quality of research in UK universities.
Read some of St George's examples of leading research.
Read about the international impact of the research being conducted by St George's scientists.
Dr Pia Ostergaard and Dr Kristiana Gordon are investigating the genetic roots of primary lymphoedema, a condition that causes parts of the body to swell.
Professor Tom Harrison is improving survival rates for African patients with cryptococcal meningitis by developing new drug combinations and lobbying for cost-effective availability across the continent.
Dr Kirsty Le Doare is researching how maternal vaccines can prevent mothers and infants from developing deadly diseases including whooping cough, sepsis, meningitis and pneumonia.
Professor Tariq Sadiq works with companies developing rapid tests for sexually transmitted infections so patients can get the right treatment on their first visit to a clinic.
Professor Sanjeev Krishna suggests that we can win the battle against malaria with the help of combination therapies and straightforward treatment options.
St George’s Professor Mike Sharland is developing new tools and treatments to fight infections in children and halt the spread of antibiotic resistance.
Programs in Latin America led by Professor Philip Cooper aim to improve management and access to essential asthma medications to prevent life-threatening asthma attacks.
Professor Nidhi Sofat credits the symbiosis between St George’s University of London and St Georges University Hospitals NHS foundation trust for helping her uncover the secrets of osteoarthritis, pointing towards new diagnostic tools and drug development.
Professor Alicja Rudnicka is evaluating whether advanced Artificial Intelligence (AI) software can help to detect eye problems in people with diabetes and reduce the burden on national eye screening programs.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-impact/knowledge-exchange-framework-KEF:
The knowledge exchange framework (KEF) comes from a collection of data gathered from providers of higher education.
The data informs a series of metrics that look at the performance of English Higher Education Providers (HEPs) from a variety of different perspectives including:
The KEF aims is to increase efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funding for knowledge exchange and to further a culture of continuous improvement in universities.
It will allow universities to better understand and improve their own performance, as well as provide businesses and other users with more information to help them access the world-class knowledge and expertise.
The data shows the rich contributions English higher education providers make, both economically and socially, on local and national levels.
The knowledge exchange that underpins the KEF will help promote cooperation and drive continuous improvement in the higher education sector.
City St George's was assessed by Research England against other universities in a ‘cluster’ of comparable institutions.
We are in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) cluster, along with:
Research England has published the full framework on their new interactive and detailed KEF website .
You can view the KEF dashboard here where you can select City St George's,  to see our results.
The full report on City St George's can be found here.
Consultation and decision documents published during the development of the KEF are available on Research England's publication pages .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-impact/investigating-sudden-deaths:
Led by Professor Elijah Behr , Professor Mary Sheppard and Professor Sanjay Sharma, a team of cardiology and pathology researchers at the University has identified underlying genetic causes of sudden deaths and established a programme to screen families so they can receive a diagnosis and take preventive measures if needed.
Thanks to the team’s research, more cases of sudden death can now be accurately identified than ever before, with 40% of families now receiving a specific diagnosis, screening and management to prevent further deaths.
Donations to support St George’s research into sudden cardiac deaths provide an invaluable source of funding.
As a result of the pandemic, a number of our key funding sources have been stopped or reduced.
Donations, big or small, will allow new projects to be created, new training opportunities to be offered to researchers and potentially new academic positions to be established.
Each donation will support us to more deeply understand the causes of sudden deaths and protect families in the future.
Your support will help our researchers investigate sudden cardiac death and save lives.
By supporting our research in to sudden cardiac death, you will be driving forwards our efforts to prevent further deaths, bringing hope and understanding to patients and their families.
“We were on a skiing holiday in Canada when Robert had a cardiac arrest.
He was 21, bright, sporty, with so many opportunities ahead of him.
At first, we wanted to understand why he had died and this eventually led us to Professor Behr.
Now, by funding PhD students in Professor Behr’s group, we are able to see first-hand the advances in understanding of Brugada Syndrome (a genetic disorder that can cause sudden death).
Our investment in these fearsomely brilliant young people will hopefully mean that we are able to multiply the effect of Professor Behr’s research, which will in turn attract bigger grants.
Ultimately, our focus is on looking forwards, in the hope that we will be able to help somebody else’s child, so that one day it will be possible to diagnose & treat Brugada Syndrome as quickly and efficiently as any other heart problem.”
James and Margaret Lancaster
If you have any other questions or queries about how your donation can support research efforts into sudden cardiac deaths at St George's email us as giving@sgul.ac.uk .
Learn more about James and Margaret Lancaster and why they are supporting this work.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-impact/research-excellence-framework:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
It takes place every seven years and the most recent exercise was conducted in 2021.
REF 2021 was undertaken by the UK higher education funding bodies: Research England, the Scottish Funding Council, the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales, and the Department for the Economy, Northern Ireland.
The funding bodies’ shared policy aim for research assessment is to secure the continuation of a world-class, dynamic and responsive research base across the full academic spectrum within UK higher education.
The purpose of the REF is:
REF will assess the quality of outputs (e.g.
publications), their impact beyond academia, and the environment that supports research.
REF has published all key documents to guide the REF submission available at www.ref.ac.uk/ .
The REF replaces the previous Research Assessment Exercise.
City St George's research excellence score for REF 2021:
Find out more about REF 2021 .
A team led by Professor Sanjay Sharma from the Molecular and Clinical Sciences Research Institute has paved the way for screening athletes for heart conditions, developing international recommendations in the process.
Dr Jason Hinds and team from the Institute for Infection and Immunity have channelled their research efforts into developing a genomics-based tool that can detect different strains, or serotypes, of the pneumococcus.
A team of researchers co-led by Dr Michael Perkin, Reader in Clinical Epidemiology, of St George’s, University of London conducted the largest completed and published trial of early allergenic food introduction at the time of publication.
The academic cardiology unit St George’s has been an internationally recognised centre of excellence for research into the sudden death of young people for more than 20 years.
Professor Tom Harrison of the Institute for Infection and Immunity has been at the forefront of research into cryptococcal meningitis for the past 20 years, finding the most effective combinations of drugs as well as improving access to treatment and developing diagnostics.
The World Health Organization has declared that Antimicrobial Resistance is one of the top 10 global public health threats.
The work of Professor Michael Sharland and his research group at St George’s has had a major national and global impact on antibiotic prescribing.
Over the last 20 years, our researchers, including Professor Kirsty Le Doare and Professor Paul Heath from the Centre for Neonatal and Paediatric Infection & Vaccine Institute (Institute for Infection and Immunity), have focused on understanding these conditions and preventing infant deaths.
A research team at St George’s, led by Professor Sanjeev Krishna, has set out to revolutionise the way malaria is treated, reducing both the number of deaths and cost of treatment.
City St George’s was assessed in the areas of Clinical Medicine and Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care.
City St George’s research excellence score for REF 2014:
Parental smoking was linked with poor respiratory health in children by St George's-led investigations in the 1990s.
Our studies have influenced UK government and World Health Organisation recommendations for salt intake.
In 2009, St George's researchers developed new diagnostic testing procedures for Clostridium difficile (C diff).
Since the 1990s, a group of researchers based at St George's has made a number of seminal contributions in the development of dual targeting antibiotics and the circumvention of antibiotic resistance.
Working with a small start-up company, Professor Angus Dalgleish developed several thalidomide analogues, including lenalinomide and pomalidomide.
Researchers from St George's have evaluated and optimised anti-fungal therapy for cryptococcal meningitis, the commonest cause of adult meningitis in sub-Saharan Africa.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-impact/transformation-stories:
Professor Nidhi Sofat credits the symbiosis between St George’s University of London and St Georges University Hospitals NHS foundation trust for helping her uncover the secrets of osteoarthritis.
Professor Alicja Rudnicka is evaluating whether AI software can help to detect eye problems in people with diabetes.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-institutes:
Learn about our leading research, which focuses on cardiovascular science and genetics.
Our vision is to be a leading infection and immunity institute, driving improvements in health through collaborative research.
This institute is home to our undergraduate science programmes, clinical education facilities and technology enhanced learning resources.
Learn about our leading research, which focuses on neurosciences and cell biology.
Our research measures the burden of disease in communities and explores the causes of ill health.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/cardiovascular-and-genomics-research-institute/home.aspx:
The Cardiovascular and Genomics Research Institute is led by Professor Elijah Behr .
The aim of the Institute is to deliver impactful research in clinical and basic sciences with a heavy emphasis on translation to benefit the patient and their family, preventing cardiovascular disease and its sequelae.
Principal investigators have internationally respected and recognised expertise in cardiovascular and lymphovascular genomics, sports cardiology, cardiac pathology, vascular biology and surgery, cellular and small animal modelling focusing on the development of novel therapeutics, and diagnostics and risk stratification, in particular for sudden cardiac death.
We have strong links with the clinical services in St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust where much of our translational research occurs, supporting a broad portfolio of clinical trials and studies.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/institute-of-medical-and-biomedical-education/centre-for-allied-health/home.aspx:
The vision of  City St George’s Centre for Allied Health is to support a knowledge-based health, social care and education economy and service reconfiguration.
We also aim to contribute to making London a ‘healthy city’ through high-quality education, workforce innovation and research excellence.
The Centre of Allied Health is home to our five allied health courses at City St George's, University of London
Allied Health Professions (AHPs) Day is an annual opportunity for AHPs to come together and celebrate being part of the AHP family.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/infection-and-immunity/home.aspx:
Advancing medicine through research, collaboration and training, the Institute for Infection and Immunity at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) aims to have a significant impact on human health.
Our research spans a broad range of themes, from clinical practice to vaccines.
Find out about undergraduate and postgraduate study in our institute.
Find out what events are being run by the Institute for Infection and Immunity, and how you can take part.
The Institute of Infection and Immunity is committed to engaging with the public locally, nationally and internationally.
Here you'll find links to key resources for Infection and Immunity staff.
Our interests encompass many clinically important human pathogens, including bacteria, viruses and fungi.
Close integration with St George's Hospital, clinicians and public health physicians ensures that the Institute's research is of clinical value.
The Institute sustains a range of international research interests, supporting efforts to control globally important infectious disease.
The Institute works in partnership with commercial organisations to ensure that innovative approaches and products are implemented in practice.
Learn more about our dedicated research centres.
The institute is an active and interactive research organisation that hosts a number of events.
Read about the prestigious Jenner Day, our seminar programme, and more.
Understand how the institute is organised, find out who to contact for help and access a list of our principal investigators.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/institute-of-medical-and-biomedical-education/home.aspx:
Our mission is high-quality and well-organised healthcare and science education that immerses students in research and practice and prepares them well for their future lives.
This centre is home to the undergraduate science programmes at City St George’s, including BSc/MSci Biomedical Science and BSc Healthcare Science,
The Centre for Clinical Education is the home of the academic and support staff who have a responsibility for the delivery of the MBBS medical programmes.
We are a leading provider of health, social care and education courses in the UK.
Information, resources and guidance for Education staff.
Working both within IMBE and across the wider City St George’s, University of London community, the IMBE Operations team provide a professional support service to the IMBE staff and student community.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/neuroscience-and-cell-biology-research-institute/home.aspx:
The Neuroscience and Cell Biology Research Institute is led by Professor Franklyn Howe.
We have strong links with clinicians and clinical academics at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting), emphasising translational research facilitated by the Neurosciences Clinical Academic Group (CAG) and the Genetics CAG, led by clinical academics within our institute.
In our neuroscience research, we aim to enhance our understanding of neurological disorders, leading to improved diagnosis and treatments.
We focus on various conditions such as dementias, cerebrovascular disease, traumatic brain injury, brain tumours, and neuromuscular disorders.
In our research in cell biology we use state-of-the-art molecular biological, protein biophysical, fluorescence and imaging approaches to address the molecular and cellular mechanisms of neurotransmission and neurodegenerative diseases, cell signalling in cell division, endothelial and neuroendocrine function and the physiology of aging and cancer.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/population-health/home.aspx:
The Chronic Disease Epidemiology section focuses on the epidemiology and determinants of chronic disease
The Prevention, Healthcare and Rehabilitation section focuses on disease prevention, primary care research, evidence-based health care, consequences and rehabilitation of people with long term conditions
The Environmental and Social Epidemiology Section focuses on Research on the effects of air quality and noise on health, early life adversities, informal/unpaid caregiving and life course mental health
The Population Health Research Institute (PHRI) addresses a wide range of population health conditions
Find out about the projects run by the Population Health Research Institute at City St George's, University of London.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/clinical-translational-research:
As the UK’s specialist health university, our emphasis is on research that leads towards clinical outcomes.
We know that we will only achieve our mission to improve global health if we are able to translate our discovery research into interventions which will benefit patients.
Our track record is excellent in this area and in the most recent REF national review, City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences was 4 th in the entire UK for impact which is remarkable considering our compact size.
Through our working relationship with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, our researchers have fostered close clinical collaborations across both institutions, creating a vibrant environment, geared towards translational research.
A conduit and platform for opportunities across the University and hospital, generating a culture of success, recognition and collaboration.
Our 4 Clinical Academic Groups (CAGs) work together across joint areas of excellence in cardiovascular diseases, neuroscience, infectious diseases and genomic medicine.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/clinical-translational-research/tacri:
In 2020, we launched a new virtual institute entirely focused on translation, the Translational and Clinical Research Institute (TACRI), in partnership with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
The institute will act as a conduit and platform for opportunities across both organisations, generating a culture of research success, recognition and collaboration.
Our Clinical Academic Groups which are established areas of research excellence will work closely with this Institute and, going forwards, it will form a key component of the University & Trust’s research strategies.
Our ambition is that this will provide a structure for clinical researchers (including nurses, midwives, doctors and allied health professionals) to work together across both institutions, therefore accelerating patient benefit.
Activities supported by the institute will include development of researcher web pages, internships and grant writing courses, as well as further research opportunities and training sessions for career development.
The institute plans to run regular seminars, lectures and workshops to encourage involvement and learning among clinicians and academics.
Find out how to get involved with TACRI

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/clinical-translational-research/cags:
Investing in cross-disciplinary translational research is critical to delivering high standards of clinical care for patients.
In partnership with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, we have established four Clinical Academic Groups (CAGs) in cardiovascular diseases, neuroscience, infectious diseases and genomic medicine.
These are subjects where both University and University Hospital are extremely strong with an international reputation for excellence.
Our researchers are deciphering the mechanisms underlying cardiovascular disorders, improving patient diagnosis, risk stratification, treatment and outcomes.
Through established partnerships our Genomics Clinical Academic Group is already demonstrating the direct benefits to patients of working together.
Recognising Infection as a key strength within the University and Trust, our Infection CAG is tackling infections from HIV to tuberculosis and coronaviruses
From molecular research through mathematical modelling and linguistics, to surgery and physiotherapy, our Neurosciences CAG includes fundamental scientists, neurologists, neurophysiotherapists, neurosurgeons and neuroradiologists.
Find out about the CAG's joint symposiums which are held on a regular basis as an opportunity to share research, hear about new clinical services in each area and encourage collaboration.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-people:
City St George's is home to a vibrant community of over a hundred active researchers and 470 academic teaching staff.
Our research has been ranked first in the world in citations (research influence) Times Higher World University Rankings 2015-16 and fourth in the UK for Research Impact Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014 .
Our research has also been featured in press and media across the world.
Our researchers are seperated into five world-class institutes; Cardiovascular and Genetics , Neurosciences and Cell Biology , Population Health Research , The Centre for Allied Health and Infection and Immunity - working both individually and collaboriatively to tackle some of the worlds biggest healthcare challenges.
Our researchers have a wide range of specialisms, find who you are looking through our people finder.
Check out the latest news from City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences.
See our latest career opportunities to join the City St George's community.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-environment:
We are committed to assessing the quality of our research fairly and transparently.
To demonstrate this commitment we signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) in 2018.
As a City St George's, University of London researcher, you can get help with managing your data at each stage of your project from the research data management (RDM) Service.
This page explains key terms used in open access and the forms for City St George's researchers to use when claiming open access fees.
This page explains more about how St George's researchers can use CRIS and SORA to make their research publications openly available.
To comply with the law, information must be collected and used fairly, stored safely and not disclosed to any other person unlawfully.
Research Ethics Committees (or Ethical Review Boards) help researchers consider and prepare for ethical issues that their research might raise.
The main way Research Ethics Committees do this is by reviewing a researcher’s ethics application for their project.
Peer review improves the quality of grant applications being submitted to funding bodies.
See our detailed guidance on the peer review process.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-environment/responsible-research-assessment:
At City St George’s we are committed to assessing the quality of our research fairly and transparently.
As a demonstration of this commitment the university signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) in 2018.
As a signatory to DORA the university has affirmed its support for the responsible use of metrics and quantitative indicators of research.
DORA recognises the need to improve the ways in which research is evaluated.
It aims to challenge and transform the current research culture that places significant emphasis on journal-based metrics such as Journal Impact Factor as a measure of research quality.
DORA also values and aims to meaningfully assess the range of outputs from scientific research, including research articles, research data, reagents and software; intellectual property; and highly trained scientists.
As a university we are committed to assessing research on its own merits rather than on the basis of the journal in which the research is published.
This commitment is in line with the university’s overall strategic research vision, mission and values .
DORA is especially relevant as we work to:
provide a research environment that inspires innovation and enables people at all stages of their careers to reach their full potential
recognise, inspire and retain early career researchers to create scientific leaders of the future
maximise the impact of our research and its contribution to scientific knowledge and clinical practice
Issue a statement of commitment to the DORA principles on the SGUL website.
Provide training, guidance and resources on open science.
Provide guidance to senior staff on good practice in research(er) evaluation during hiring, promotion and reward with a suite of options for requesting and measuring the range of academic contributions to research (including the CREDiT taxonomy and Résumé for Researchers toolkit produced by the Royal Society).
Provide guidance and workshops for researchers to raise awareness of tools for recording/evidencing the full range of their contributions to high-quality scientific research on CVs and promotions applications.
Develop a programme of advocacy and communication to raise awareness of these initiatives.
Explore opportunities to identify areas where good practice isn’t being upheld.
Develop a process to monitor and report on progress.
In 2020 the University established a DORA Working Group (agreed by Research Committee) to explore the integration of DORA principles and practices into our research environment and culture.
The Working Group is chaired by the Director of Cross-Cutting Research Themes and Academic Lead for REF2021, Professor Jodi Lindsay , who leads the implementation of a DORA action plan, acting on behalf of the Deputy Principal (Research and Enterprise), Professor Jon Friedland , who signed the declaration on behalf of the University.
The Working Group’s action plan was approved by Research Committee in June 2020.
We have already taken the following positive steps to embed the DORA principles at CSGUL:
Issued clear guidance to the promotions committee on using publication metrics responsibly for academic promotions
Delivered training on the DORA principles in the context of REF2021
The DORA Working Group includes representatives from all levels of the university’s academic community as well as representatives from professional services.
The members are:
Jodi Lindsay (Chair – Institute for Infection & Immunity)
Laura Southgate (Senior Lecturer representative - Molecular and Clinical Sciences Research Institute)
Krystal Francis (Human Resources representative – Professional Services)
Carly Lightfoot (Library Research Services Manager – Professional Services)
Jennifer Smith (Research Publications representative – Professional Services)
Sarah Stewart (Research Data Management representative – Professional Services)
Progress on DORA will be regularly reported at Research Committee.
The DORA Working Group has produced/contributed to the following resources to support staff and students with implementing the DORA principles.
Contributed to CSGUL recruitment policy (in development)
DORA and promotions at City St George’s – guidance for the Academic Promotions Committee (PDF)
DORA guidance for external reviewers (in development)
DORA Summary of research achievements: A guide to highlighting individual contributions to research as alternatives to traditional metrics (PDF)
Contributed to City St George’s six-year review action plan for implementing The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
Guidance for using publication metrics responsibly (PDF)
For queries or further information about DORA, please contact one of our working group members or dora@sgul.ac.uk .
Read our strategic vision 2030

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-environment/peer-review-of-grant-applications:
At City St George’s, University of London, we encourage submission of large grants that allow substantive pieces of work to be delivered and ideally include overhead (e.g.
UKRI , NIHR or commercial).
There is also strong encouragement for submission of Fellowship applications.
Peer review is an act of generosity by individuals so having a peer review step means applicants must allow extra 2 weeks turnaround time in preparing to meet both Joint Research and Enterprise Services (JRES) and grant submission deadlines.
Detailed peer review is time consuming and may not be appropriate or possible for all grants, so please see criteria for review as outlined in the tabs below including the explanatory figure in the Peer review of funding for PhD studentships tab.
Grants under £100k: No university arranged peer review is required and any such review is individual choice.
Grants £100k-£200k : Discuss with Research Institute Director (ID) who will decide whether peer review is required (e.g., for new lecturers, or those staff who have had multiple applications rejected).
At the same time inform the Section Head (SH) and Research Institute Manager (RIM).
Grants over £200k : Peer review is compulsory and grant submission will not be allowed without this step:
Once a year RIMs will audit all large grant applications to confirm that they have undergone the appropriate peer review process and monitor the success rates of peer-reviewed applications.
Exceptions:
All clinical and non-clinical Fellowship applications above the level of PhD must be peer reviewed prior to the submission.
If a fellowships candidate is short-listed for external interview, in all such cases candidates (including for PhDs) must have a mock interview with at least two academic staff on the panel.
Candidate should contact the relevant RIM, Institute Director, and Section Head to coordinate this process.
Peer review of applications for PhD studentships (clinical and non-clinical) is strongly advised but is not compulsory unless last three applications by supervisor have been rejected.
In such cases, peer review is compulsory.
See previous tab for interview practice.
See a larger version of this flowchart by clicking the image.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/library/researchers/research-data-management/home.aspx:
As a St George’s, University of London researcher, you can get help with managing your data at each stage of your project from the research data management (RDM) Service.
We will help you to create, manage and share data that is findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable ( FAIR ) and in line in funder policies.
On this page you will learn more about data management plans (DMPs), data management policies, training and resources.
Find out more about research systems and software and how to store and document data during your project.
At the end of your project you'll need to think about how you will share and archive your data for future use.
Find out about St George's policies and procedures for handling sensitive data, the NHS Data Security and Protection Toolkit, and what repositories you can use for controlled-access data.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/staff-development/hr-excellence-in-research/home.aspx:
HR Excellence in Research, a UK-wide process incorporating the QAA code of practice for research degree programmes and the concordat to support the career development of researchers , enables institutions to gain the European Commission’s ‘HR Excellence in Research’ badge.
The award acknowledges alignment with the principles of the European charter for researchers and code of conduct for their recruitment.
Training and Career Development for Research Staff .
The University signed up to the Revised Researcher Development Concordat in November 2020.
To access and download the Letter of Commitment (PDF) to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
The 2019 Researcher Development Concordat is structured around three principles:
St George’s, University of London was awarded the HR Excellence in Research Award in November 2013.
St George’s retained the HR Excellence in Research Award (HREiRA) in March 2023 following the successful completion of the 8-year review.
The retention demonstrates the University’s long-term commitment to the career development and working conditions of researchers.
Following the merger with City University to become City St George’s, legacy on the 1 August 2024, St George’s will not continue with HR Excellence 11-year review process, therefore,  legacy St George’s has held this award for 8 years.
We have completed an internal self-assessment and analysis for the eight-year review of our HR Excellence in Research Award.
The following documents include our eight-year review report highlighting St George’s achievements against our 2020-2022 action plan, our eight-year review of our six-year action plan (2020-2022) and our eight-year review action plan (2022-2025).
Monitoring of our Concordat action plan is undertaken by the HREiRA Working Group including representatives from PhD students, the Postdoc forum, Human Resources, Joint Research and Enterprise Service (JRES), Research Technicians and academics.
These reports outline the progress St George’s, University of London has made in achieving its Action Plan for the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, following its external eight-year review under the Concordat.
The University was informed in February 2023 that it was successful in retaining the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award at the eight-year external review point.
The next review will be the 11-year review in October 2025.
We have completed an internal self-assessment and analysis for the 6-year review of our HR Excellence in Research Award.
The following documents include our 6 year review report highlighting St George’s achievements against our 2018-2020 action plan and our new 6-year review action plan 2020-2022.
This HREiRA Annual Report to Council (May 2021) (PDF) outlines the progress St George’s, University of London has made in achieving its HREiRA 6 year action plan which supports the University’s  commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, following its internal 6year self-assessment under the Concordat in April 2020.
The Working Group liaises with relevant stakeholders to determine progress with regard to the action plan and any further actions that may be required.
As part of this review and  progress against our 6-year action plan one year on the HREiRA Working Group asked the key stakeholders in this action plan to update us on actions/areas of development that sat within their area of responsibility.
These actions relate to researcher culture and environment, employment, professional and career development.
Our 8-year review is due on 7 July 2022.
This report will therefore also contribute towards the 8 year self-assessment due in July 2022.
We have completed an internal self-assessment and analysis for the four-year review of our HR Excellence in Research Award.
The following documents set out our progress against the actions in our 2015-2017 two-year action plan and our new four-year review action plan 2018-2020.
An internal assessment against our November 2013 action plan was carried out in October and November 2015.
The original action plan has been updated and is accompanied by a summary progress report and a new action plan for November 2015 to November 2017.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/library/researchers/open-access-publishing/home.aspx:
Making research open access so that it can be read, re-used and built upon is seen as a key part of the research lifecycle by many funders.
These pages bring together information on funder policies and open access publishing options.
Use our open access glossary to understand the jargon and our decision tree for guidance at key stages of the publication process.
This page gives eligibility information for St George's authors on our publishing agreements such as read and publish deals.
An overview of what rights retention is all about, and the benefits.
The REF mandate for journal articles and conference proceedings with an ISSN to be open access continues for REF2029.
Find out more about the EU Horizon open access policy and publishing options.
Find out more about the NIHR open access policy and funds available to pay open access publication charges.
Find out more about the UKRI open access policy and funds available to pay open access publication charges.
Find out more about the Wellcome open access policy and funds available to pay open access publication charges.
Several partner charities had a pooled fund for open access fees, now ceased.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/library/researchers/cris-and-sora.aspx:
CRIS (Current Research Information System) and SORA (St George's Online Research Archive, our institutional open access publications repository) are two systems allowing St George’s, University of London researchers to record their publications, make them more discoverable, and meet their funders’ open access mandates.
This page explains more about how St George's researchers can make their research publications openly available, gives further information and contacts for any questions.
The CRIS (Current Research Information System), which uses a Symplectic software called Elements , is a flexible, easy-to-use system designed to make publications management a straightforward process for both academics and managers.
It is also designed to meet the needs of research quality exercises, such as the Research Excellence Framework (REF).
There is policy and guidance available for those using CRIS and SORA.
The Open Access Publications policy gives St George’s, University of London researchers a summary of what they need to know to ensure that their authorship, affiliation and funders are identified in publications; about recording their publications in CRIS; and about making their publications available on open access.
The SORA licence outlines the terms and conditions under which researchers deposit their work .
St George’s researchers can upload papers onto the record for the publication in CRIS, and by confirming they agree to deposit in the upload process, the full text files will be transferred into a review of area of SORA.
After this, St George’s repository team will check the copyright status before making the record publicly accessible, taking every step to ensure that breaches of copyright do not occur.
If it is not possible to deposit full-text versions we will contact you to advise you further on this.
A record of the bibliographic information only may be made available via SORA, linking to the content in a subject repository, or the home page of the journal or publisher website.
The article's DOI ( digital object identifier ), where available, will be included on SORA records, ensuring the published version of record is clearly identified to users.
St George’s authors are encouraged to deposit the final, post-refereed version.
This is the version of the paper created by the author and incorporating any revisions required as a result of peer review.
Having a record of your research in the CRIS as well as SORA provides a number of benefits.
It will:
For CRIS information and guidance, such as user guides, please login to your CRIS profile and click on the help tab at the top right-hand side.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/information-governance/data-protection/home.aspx:
City St George’s, University of London (CSG) needs to keep certain personal data, for example about our staff and students, to fulfil our purpose and to meet our legal obligations to funding bodies and government.
The university's data processing activities must adhere to UK data protection legislation.
Please refer to the relevant page(s) in this section for information on various aspects of data protection.
If you are unable to find the information you're looking for here, or you need further help or advice with a data protection issue, please email your query to data protection .
If you need to report a data breach involving University personal data, please complete the data incident reporting form as soon as possible and email it to dataprotection@sgul.ac.uk.
Further information on the reporting process can be found under the 'Data incident reporting' section of the Information and Technical Security webpage.
CSG DPO - Geoff Gray MBE - dataprotection@city.ac.uk
SGUL DPO - Claire Morrissey  - dataprotection@sgul.ac.uk.
Note: SGUL is part of City St George's, University of London
More detailed guidance can be found on the Information Commissioner's Office website.
The full text of the Data Protection Act 2018 is available via the UK Legislation website managed by the National Archives.
Learn more about the university's data protection policy.
Guidelines have been drawn up to provide St George's members with a basic overview of the Data Protection Act principles.
St George's data protection notification document contains details of the university's data protection register entry.
On this page you will find some examples of work-related situations and how the data protection principles apply – from sharing student information with their family to handling data as a researcher.
All staff, including research staff, must adhere to university policy on the handling of personal data in their day-to-day work.
The university has an obligation to ensure that its staff understand the basics of data protection, especially in the context of their own duties and responsibilities.
Definitions of some of the key terms and phrases associated with data protection, from consent and fair processing to subject access request.
Here you will find answers to some common questions about data protection, from what is meant by sensitive personal data to dealing with subject access requests.
The Freedom of Information Act gives people the right to request information from St George’s about the business of the institution.
Frequently asked questions from staff and students about the new EU General Data Protection Regulation.
Under the Data Protection Act an individual is entitled to have access to their personal information.
St George’s needs to keep certain personal data about staff and students to fulfil our purpose and to meet legal obligations.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture:
Welcome to City St George’s (Tooting campus) Research Culture Hub.
It contains information about our emerging Research Culture Strategy and Action Plan, as well as signposting useful resources and ways you can get involved.
Help us to define the values, expectations and attitudes that our culture should have.
Tell us about the support and processes you would benefit from.
Our work is focused on four key themes which you can explore in the infographic below.
We are on a mission to improve the diagnosis and treatment of disease and tackle the most pressing societal issues in healthcare.
We believe that the environment in which we do our research is just as important as the research we do.
When people are given the opportunity to thrive and work together positively, we solve problems more effectively and do better research.
That is why we are working with our research community to create a positive research culture.
The following video has been embedded from a third party site, YouTube.
Please ensure that you have accepted cookies in order to view the embed of this video.
Alternatively, you can view the recording directly in YouTube .
Forging new partnerships, increasing networking opportunities and working as a community.
Developing the research leaders of tomorrow through nurturing and retaining talent.
Increasing communication, promoting open science and rewarding innovation and enterprise.
Fostering an environment where integrity, collaboration and inclusivity thrive.
Find new opportunities to learn and develop your career.
Find out more about our Research news and events.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture/influencing-widely-through-impact:
Our world class research delivers impact which transforms the lives of people around the globe.
We believe that the best way to increase the impact of our research is by promoting open science and rewarding innovation and enterprise.
We can deliver the greatest benefits for all by providing an infrastructure that supports and facilitates researchers to undertake and develop excellent, collaborative and global research of the highest integrity.
We will increase our impact and influence by:
Learn more about our public engagement work, find out about our events and discover how to get involved.
Learn how we use social media to promote the institution, and how to request social media activity on our channels for your project or piece of work.
The Enterprise and Innovation Office provides professional and experienced support for all commercialisation and innovation activity at St George's.
The Communications and Engagement Directorate works collaboratively with colleagues across the University to raise the profile of St George's, help us achieve our strategic vision and raise our philanthropic income.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture/building-connections-through-engagement:
We continue to strengthen the global connections that build on our research successes and multiply the impact of our work.
Our researchers are forging new partnerships and collaborations both within the University and around the world, generating novel projects and winning the funding to bring them to fruition.
Yet together there is more we can do to break down barriers and work as a community, by strengthening partnerships across and beyond the university, particularly with the St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and partners.
We will build new connections by:
Alternatively, you can view the video directly in YouTube.
St George’s research is governed and monitored by Research and Enterprise Committee under the leadership of  the Vice-Chancellor (Research & Enterprise) Professor Jon Friedland.
Research Day is an annual event to showcase the world class research done at St George's.
It is an opportunity for staff and students to meet and share ongoing research work and ideas, to promote discussions and strengthen collaboration.
A conduit and platform for opportunities across the university and hospital, generating a culture of success, recognition and collaboration.
This is an event to launch Research Culture at St George’s and engage researchers across disciplines and levels to foster collaboration and networking.
19 June 2024
Explore external opportunities, useful for our research community.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture/breaking-barriers-through-support:
We are striving to develop the research leaders of tomorrow through nurturing and retaining talent, providing tailored training and personal development programmes.
We will engage with our research community to deepen our understanding of the issues and barriers they face, so that together we can develop what is needed to achieve an excellent research culture, where everyone thrives.
Help us to develop our vision for a strong, diverse and inclusive research culture which supports the University’s efforts to promote equal opportunities, and values and respects all who contribute to our success.
We will break through barriers by:
How to Arrive and Thrive at St George's has been designated to provide a central reference point for your queries as a member of staff.
The Joint Research and Enterprise Services support academics and researchers to find funding opportunities relevant to their career-level and research specialisms, and funding calls that are of strategic importance to the university and the hospital.
This page outlines the aspects to be considered to help you improve your applications.
Researchers at St George's, University of London have access to a wide range of training opportunities.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture/embedding-values-through-management:
Embedding values through management in research culture is essential for fostering an environment where integrity, collaboration, and inclusivity thrive.
Effective management practices that prioritise and model these values not only guide individual but also behaviour-shape the overarching culture, influencing how research is conducted, communicated, and utilised for the betterment of society.
We will embed our core values by:
Information on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) at City St George's for staff, including what support and training is available and what policies apply to people who work for us.
Information, guidance and support in relation to bullying, harassment and discrimination.
Find out about the different staff networks at City St George's, what they do and how you can get involved.
The Advance HE's Athena SWAN charter recognises work undertaken to address gender equality in higher education.
HR Excellence in Research Award demonstrates our commitment to improving the working conditions and career development for research staff, through implementing the principles of the Concordat.
Learn more about our commitment to preserving and protecting the environment.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture/external-opportunities-for-researchers:
The Prosper PI Network was launched in September 2020 with the aim of creating a cross-institutional community.
The idea behind this initiative was to empower Principal Investigators (and anyone managing researchers) to support the career development of their researchers by sharing best practice and providing peer support.
Prosper PI Network have announced that they are opening the network up to all higher education institutions across the UK.
Researchers can attend any session, regardless of career stage and discipline.
Sessions are held online and are free.
They are also inviting other institutions to suggest and lead sessions for the network.
More information can be found at Managers of researchers - Prosper .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture/internal-opportunities-for-researchers:
The Department of Journalism offers Media Training sessions to staff to equip them with the skills and confidence to communicate more effectively and widely.
These sessions are run by leading practitioners from the Department’s 28 staff and 50 visiting lecturers.
Media training brochure 2025
The Development Team in Research and Innovation would like to invite you to its Spring Researcher training and development events.
The Researcher Development Programme is there to support the skills and career development of City St George's academic staff and research related professional staff.
AI tools for researchers exploring large information sets 6th March 1-4pm, Clerkenwell
Business collaboration clinic with Konfer and the National Centre for Universities and Business 18th March 2-4pm, Clerkenwell
KTP for Academic Impact 26 th March 2-4pm, Clerkenwell
The Internal Mentor 2 nd April 9:30am-5pm, Clerkenwell
Research Team Leadership Programme deadline for applications 12 th May
For more information and a full list of researcher development events view the RDP events calendar and register here
To find out more go to our SharePoint at Research Development at City St George's
A programme designed to empower researchers and academics with essential skills and knowledge in intellectual property, consultancy, entrepreneurship, research funding and innovation which will be hosted in February, March and May 2025 at the Tooting Campus.
Organised by the Enterprise & Innovation Team, these workshops feature training and insights from experienced industry professionals and our own successful entrepreneurial academics and clinicians who have made the transition into innovation and commercialisation.
Focus on securing research funding with industry partners and understanding consultancy and fee-for-service opportunities.
Designed for academics and researchers interested in personal managed consultancy and fee-for-service work.
Gain practical insights into starting and managing a business:
Topics include:
Learn how Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) drive innovation.
All sessions will take place at the Tooting campus.
Please find the link below for more information and registration:
Please note that  these opportunities are available for City St George's colleagues only.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture/research-culture-get-involved:
Help us to build a research culture at City St George’s where you feel empowered to do your best work and develop your career.
Complete the form below to give your feedback and get involved.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-culture/research-news-and-events:
Upcoming events will be added here when available.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-ethics:
All research has ethical implications, whether it involves, humans, animals or anonymised datasets.
Research Ethics Committee approval of an ethics application is usually a requirement in order to conduct the research project.
The Health Research Authority`s decision tool help you decide whether or not your study is research as defined by the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research.
There are different Research Ethics Committees to review different research projects.
This table will help you figure out which committees would be relevant for research conducted with City St George’s (Tooting campus).
City St George’s University London (Students)
City St George’s University London (Staff)
St George’s Hospital Trust (Staff)
Other Organisation
SGREC
Other Organisation’s Process + SGREC
CitySt George’s University London (Staff)
City St George’s University London (Animals¹)
AWERB
Other Organisation’s Process + AWERB
St George’s Hospital Trust / Other NHS Site (Staff)
Recruited through NHS
SGREC + HRA
Other Organisation’s Process + SGREC + HRA
Participants
not recruited through NHS
-
St George’s Hospital Trust / Other NHS Site (Patients)²
HRA + NHS REC
Other Organisation’s Process +
SGREC + Other Organisation’s Process
SGREC + HRA  + Other Organisation’s Process
Clinical Audits and Service Evaluations³
Register with clinical audit team in relevant Trust.
For City St George’s email clinicalaudit@stgeorges.nhs.uk
¹ Any research requiring animals for whatever purpose, requires submission to AWERB (Animal Welfare Ethical Review Body).
² SGREC not required if being reviewed by nationally recognised research ethics committee (usually NHS REC, but would include Ministry Of Defence REC).
³ Ethical approval is not required but a SAFE and protocol should be submitted to the SGREC for review and registration.
All joint faculty students with degrees awarded by Kingston University should submit applications for a favourable ethical opinion using Kingston University Research ethics Online System KUREOS
Please note that if your research falls into more than one category, (eg involving animals and patients) then you may need additional approvals.
Please contact the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer for help.
If your research project requires review by St George’s Research Ethics Committee (SGREC), please see the Standard Operating Procedure (PDF) and the following page.
Learn how to apply to the SGREC for ethical review of your project.
Find committee meeting dates, drop-in sessions, annual reports and policies.
Useful information about the sponsorship process for international research studies.
Important information about registering and submitting projects involving human tissue samples.
If you are unable to view this page please email the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-ethics/ethical-review-process:
All research that is not being reviewed by a nationally recognised Research Ethics Committee (eg: NHS REC), that is being conducted by City St George’s University London students or staff (conducting research as part of their course or job) or research which involves City St George’s University London students, staff, or data, will require a favourable opinion from the St George’s Research Ethics Committee (SGREC) and governance approval by the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer, prior to commencing .
You can check the research projects with favourable SGREC ethics opinion (16/08/2021 - 01.08.2023) in this table .
The SGREC processing flowchart (PDF) will help understand the process for gaining SGREC favourable opinion and SGUL sponsor governance approval.
The Research Ethics and Integrity Officer will determine what level of review is required, once the documents/forms have been assessed as acceptable.
There are 3 options:
Low risk studies are studies which do not involve any of the high risk elements listed in the SAFE or non-substantial Amendments (a change to the research team or start/end dates).
These are reviewed by the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer.
Proportionate Review is for Medium Risk studies Q3 to Q5 on the Self-assessment form (SAFE).
These are reviewed by the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer, Chair and one other member of SGREC
High Risk Studies are studies which have been categorised as high risk at validation according to the SAFE risk categorisation checklist (Q6-Q13).
It will be reviewed by the full SGREC at a meeting to which you will be invited.
Complete the following forms:
self-assessment form: ethics (SAFE) (Word)
research protocol template (Word)
If relevant, complete:
Participant information sheet template (Word)
Participant consent form (Word)
Submit all relevant additional documents such as questionnaires, interview schedules, advertisements, agreements with a gatekeeper or other organisation, draft emails for recruitment.
Once completed, submit the SAFE, research protocol and all relevant documents to St George's Research Ethics Committee .
The Research Ethics and Integrity Officer will then review your documents and determine what level of review is required or issue an ethics decision letter.
The standard response time is within five - seven working days.
Following your initial submission of the SAFE, protocol and other documents you may be informed that a full ethics application is required for review at a SGREC review meeting (high risk studies).
The St George’s Research Ethics Committee will then review your application at a review meeting to which you will be invited and an ethics decision letter will be issued.
The standard response time is within five working days of the meeting.
Please note that there is one SGREC Review Meeting each month.
For meeting dates and submission deadlines please see our webpage About the St George’s Research Ethics Committee.
If a favourable ethical opinion and governance approval is issued, you will be required to submit an end of study notification form (Word) when the study is finished.
Following approval, if you wish to make changes to your study, including (but not limited to) a change to the research team, study dates, participant documents or study design, you will need to submit an amendment application form (Word) for approval.
For the annual progress report, end of study notification and amendment application forms, please see below the section of Running and amending your project .
Please note that we will publish a summary of your research (taken from your application) in our annual report and in other reports that summarise the work of the St George’s Research Ethics Committee and will be publicly available.
For further help completing or submitting these documents please email the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer .
Some SGREC studies, such as studies where NHS staff are the participants , may require Health Research Authority (HRA) governance approval.
From 1 September 2021, HRA are introducing new eligibility criteria for student research.
Health and social care research applications from students working at undergraduate level are no longer being accepted .
Master's level: Applicants should complete the student research toolkit to check eligibility.
Doctorate level: Applicants are eligible to complete health and social care research.
If you can apply for SGREC ethical review you will not need NHS REC as well.
Please ensure that this is indicated on the IRAS form.
(IRAS Q46 Does your study require REC Review?
- You should reply NO )
Application form (IRAS)
Study Documentation
Example for Organisation Information Document Non-Commercial
Example for IRAS schedule of events
Sponsor details:
Name : Georgia Bullock
Telephone number : +442087255013
Email Address : gbullock@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Job title : Research Development and Governance Manager
Organisation Name: Joint Research and Enterprise Services, City St George’s University of London and St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
Student projects also require electronic sign-off by the student’s supervisor.
Please send the PDF form of the IRAS application and the documents to the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer for checking before the submission to the HRA.
As part of the terms of your favourable ethics opinion and governance approval you will be required to submit:
All documents need to be submitted by email to SGREC .
Please note that Annual Progress Reports no longer need to be submitted to the SGREC, in line with the updated requirements for NHS RECs.
If you have any questions, please email the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer .
Read our frequently asked questions for further help and guidance with your application.
Yes, this is to ensure that your supervisor has oversight of your study and approves of your research proposal.
Supervisor sign-off is part of the SAFE approval process.
You must submit your SAFE, protocol and all other relevant documents to the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer .
No, SGREC does not consider animal-related research projects.
Our Biological Research Facility (BRF) is temporarily closed for refurbishment.
When it reopens, it will once again be at the heart of our commitment to carry out animal research only to the highest possible welfare standards.
If you are a University employee and you will be the Principal Investigator or the University will be the Sponsor of the project, you need to submit the application to SGREC.
The Ethics Committee will consider the general ethical aspect of your project and it will review your safety, the insurance cover and reputational risk to the University.
Research projects must comply with the UK’s legal requirements and the University`s ethical requirements, as well as the laws and regulations of the country where the study is taking place or where the data will be collected.
You must seek local ethics favourable opinion and sponsor governance approval from the organisation(s) where the research is taking place and any other local/national approvals required by that organisation and country.
Evidence of these approvals must be provided to the SGREC.
If you are travelling abroad you should ensure travel insurance is in place.
If your research involves human tissue from overseas, you need to follow the Human Tissue Authority (HTA) regulation of the import/export of human tissue for research purposes.
Even for countries that do not regulate human tissue research, as a minimum you will be expected to seek assurances from the host institute that the material is ethically sourced and check the consent if you will use identifiable samples.
For UK studies which involve ionising radiation will need to go via the IRAS process.
For more information about ethics review for ionising radiation
For UK studies which involve the recruitment of participants who lack capacity you will need to go via the IRAS process.
For more information about ethics review for participants who lack capacity
Ensure that your project/collection is informed and that both research ethics and the Human Tissue Act designated individual (DI), Dr Priya Madhou , or Person Designated (PD) Ash Sameja & Lara Painter .
Registration / Application for ethics opinion you need submit:
-       Study protocol: what samples are collected or stored; where will the samples be stored; samples are anonymised or are identifiable; what research is planned; what will happen if any are left after the research; what HTA training the researcher has received
-       Material Transfer Agreement (MTA) if applicable
-       Favourable ethics opinion and study protocol (translated to English)
If research involves the use and storage of human tissue (relevant material), ethical approval and R&D registration must be obtained to ensure that your work complies with the Human Tissue Act 2004.
For information regarding the documentation process of human tissue at CSGUL please go to the relevant section.
Research on human samples requires ethical approval and requires the patient's consent.
Ethics opinion from NHS REC:
-       Research involving volunteers who are NHS patients
-       The collection of tissue from NHS patients
-       The use of previously collected tissue from which past or present NHS patients could be identified
-       To store or use the tissue of a living or deceased person for a research project on premises without a licence from the HTA
-       To store or use tissue from the living for a research project without consent where the samples are anonymised to the researcher
-       To analyse human DNA in material from the body of a living person (or using the results of DNA analysis) without consent, in circumstances where the researcher is unable to identify the tissue donor and not likely to be able to do so in the future
-       To store or use tissue for a research project where consent is required and the tissue is from adults unable to consent for themselves
-       To export tissue from the living and there is no consent in place for use in future research
Ethical opinion can be obtained from SGREC:
-       Research involving volunteers who are not NHS patients
-       The material has been transferred to CSGUL from outside of the organisation (UK or outside of UK) for the purposes of research without valid research ethics opinion
-       Access to human tissue from a HTA-licensed Biobank without ethical approval for use in research
Any tissue approved for such studies must be stored in an HTA-licenced premises.
R &D registration:
-       Research project with human tissue from an HTA-licensed Biobank with generic ethical approval for use of the tissue in research
-       Research limited to secondary use of tissue samples previously collected, in the course of normal care, with consent for research and the patients or service users are not identifiable to the research team
All staff working with human tissue under the University's Research Licence and those who may wish to retain tissue at the end of an ethically approved research project must comply with:
- HTA Codes of Practice
- University policies and procedures for the management of human tissue samples for research
-       Undertake the MRC human tissue e-learning training , once you are on the page choose Research and Human Tissue Legislation - updated.
The Committee has scheduled meetings almost every month but will only meet if there are applications to review that month.
All deadlines are at 4pm, and are usually a minimum of 2 weeks before the committee meeting date.
The dates below only apply to applications that require full committee review but we advise you submit all applications for ethical review well in advance of these deadlines.
This will make sure your application can be reviewed in time to be included in the papers for the next meeting.
If you (SGUL/NHS Trust staff/student) will recruit participants (working for the NHS) through advertising on a professional organisation website you do not need HRA approval, but you still need SGREC favourable ethics opinion for your research project.
If you will recruit via their NHS working team e.g.
a hospital ward then you do need to go through the HRA.
If you are conducting research outside the University it is good practice to obtain the written consent of any organisation that agrees to host your study.
You need to submit an email or letter from the person who has research authority at the organisation.
For NHS research you will need approval from the R&D Office of the NHS Trust involved.
If you wish to amend your study after approval, you will need to submit an amendment form along with any updated/amended documents.
Some examples of when you will need to submit an amendment are:
Please see the Running and Amending Your Project section for more information and contact the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer if you need advice on amending your study
Please contact the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer to discuss any queries you have.
Please consider the Drop-in sessions in the Library or onlime (Microsoft Teams).
If you would like to ask a question that is not addressed on this page, please contact the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer .
The sponsor logo should be in the header and the study title, version number and date should be in the footer of the document.
Please use the templates available.
You must exercise appropriate version control over your documents.
The final version of the documents that you submit to the SGREC should be version 1 and must be dated.
If you do not include these details on your documents, the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer will return them to you and ask you to complete them.
If you are given provisional favourable ethics opinion by SGREC or otherwise asked to make changes to your documents, you must ensure that you update the version numbers and dates of those documents accordingly.
After a change, this would become version 2.0, version 3.0 etc.
For studies taking place on the internet (eg an electronic survey) the Participant Information Sheet could be combined with the consent form ( Survey template ).
The information provided prior to the consent statement should include details:
Introduction of you
What is the research about?
What will happen to me if I take part?
Why have I been asked to participate?
What data will be collected?
What are the possible benefits of taking part?
Are there any risks involved?
What will happen to the data which will be collected?
Do I have to take part?
Can I change my mind?
Where can I get more information?
Most online survey software have an option to allow participants to continue with the survey only if they tick a box to indicate their consent.
This tick box should be every page of the survey.
Survey Tools:
Microsoft Forms
You can access Microsoft Forms via the CSGUL O365 Portal by going to  and clicking on the Forms icon.
Help and tips on how to create a survey using Microsoft Forms.
For further help please email .
Please make sure you refer to any other relevant guidance before setting up your survey, for example in terms of either data protection or research ethics requirements.
Please use the Data protection and managment guidance.
Survey Monkey
Survey Monkey is a very popular online tool but we do not recommend its use due to data protection concerns.
For staff with a subscription to Survey Monkey it can be used during the academic year 2020/1 as we transition to Jisc Online Surveys as the preferred tool for 2021/2.
JISC Online Surveys
Where Microsoft Forms does not provide the necessary functionality for your needs, it may be possible to use JISC Online Surveys instead.
For further information and to request access to Online Surveys please email the Learning & Development Manager
You should state clearly on the Participant Information Sheet (PIS) and Consent form if you intend to use an audio or video recorder on the interview.
You should make it clear whether the recordings are optional or required for participation.
Audio / visual recordings should be held on a password-protected recording device or in an encrypted University file until the transcription has been completed.
After transcription, the recording should be destroyed, and the transcript stored in a password-protected University file.
After the anonymisation of the transcripts, the participant will not able to withdraw their data.
You need to indicate in the PIS the time limit for withdrawal of data (Please use the PIS template (Word).
The transcript should be made available to the participant at their request.
Recommended tools for interview are MS Team.
MS Teams as the best option for remote interviews moving forward.
It keeps the organisational advice about systems consistent.
This link will take you to the CSGUL website that has Training guides on MS Teams.
There is advice for students about the use of Teams in the Learning Technology Quick Guide for Students on Canvas
Webcams can be turned off to prevent recording of video.
You must make it clear to the interviewee what the process is, before the recording part starts.
Microsoft OME can be used to protect personal data when sending it via email, and includes options to restrict what the recipient can do with that email, e.
g.
prevent them from forwarding it to anyone else.
It will also protect email attachments where the files have been created using Microsoft Office applications, e.
Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
Files containing sensitive personal data (also known as special category data) should always have additional protection applied before they are sent as attachments to email.
7-Zip can be used to encrypt and password protect documents containing sensitive personal data or files in non-Microsoft Office formats, such as PDFs or image files.
Passwords to open protected files should never be shared in the same email used to send the file.
Training for using Microsoft OME, including definitions of the different levels of encryption, can be booked from the Library's training pages .
For further help with using encryption or queries regarding access to 7-Zip please email the IT team .
Please note that if audio recordings are being sent to a third party transcriber, the transcriber preferably UK-based to comply with data protection law in the UK.
The format of the data (such as the data will be anonymised, encrypted) should be clearly stated in the study protocol and PIS.
Details on data storage must be included in the study protocol and Participant Information Sheet (PIS).
You have access to two data storage areas:
OneDrive for Business on CSGUL's Office 365
Personal SGUL H: drive
Whilst you are working on or with their projects/data, they can use these two areas to save work – this should give them the freedom to work on their data on personal laptops.
The H: drive is accessible remotely via VPN, and ensures data is secure both from a confidentiality and loss perspective.
You can access OneDrive directly from their student mailboxes by clicking ‘Office 365' on the top left of the screen.
You have 1TB of cloud storage available on OneDrive.
You need to ensure that their research data/files are saved on their H: drive or OneDrive for Business accounts and NOT on personal laptops, removable hard drives or other portable media, or personal cloud-based services (e.g.
smartphones back-up etc.).
The CSGUL H: drive that every SGUL student is given is backed up to a server every night so data is recoverable.
Any files containing personal data must be encrypted/password-protected.
Information on OneDrive/Office 365 is automatically saved and backed up.
OneDrive for Business is better for anonymised data and collaboration.
The only people able to access files on OneDrive for Business are the owner of the account or named members of their research team they choose to share files with.
It is important that data is anonymised before it can be put on OneDrive.
No sensitive personal data or patient information should be kept on the university's 365 cloud, including OneDrive for Business, at any time.
Removable media: these include audio recorders and USB devices.
If you are collecting data in the field, you can store your data temporarily on removable storage as long as it is password-protected and encrypted.
You need to use bit locker for the encryption to able to work on CSGUL systems.
Data on audio recorders must be kept in a locked, safe place and should be password-protected if your device has this feature.
Data should be stored in the device’s physical memory and not on the cloud.
Saving identifiable or sensitive research data on the cloud is not permitted under any circumstance.
Note that your data is still vulnerable if the removable device is lost or stolen.
Ensure that you upload the information to your H: Drive or, if anonymised, OneDrive as soon as possible and delete all information held on the removable drive.
Students sharing data between each other:
Students can email documents or spreadsheets to each other
If the document/spreadsheet contains any personal data, the document will need to be password-protected and then sent, with the password for opening the file sent separately.
If the document contains no personal/sensitive data you can share it directly on Office 365 using OneDrive's sharing and collaboration features.
Support/training with Office 365 is available from our IT Training Manager .
Signed consent forms and other hard data must be stored securely in a lockable cabinet.
If the documents are scanned, the originals must be disposed of as confidential waste (blue bin at the University).
The scanned copies must be saved in a secure, password-protected University file.
The active digital data (ie data that is still being processed) should be stored on a City St George’s University of London network or shared drive, which you will be allocated by Computing Services.
As your project develops, you might find you need more storage space.
Email the IT/AV team to discuss your needs for more active data storage.
All network drives, including the SGUL H: drive is backed up to hard disk and then cloned to tape storage server every night.
Full backups of all the data are carried out monthly.
The data from the removable media (e.
data collected from a field site) needs to be moved to City St George's servers for active/long term storage.
Please see the SGUL Removable Media policy.
The physical/hard copy data should be stored in securely in locked cabinet (both in the field – if applicable – and for active and long-term storage).
Plans for the retention and/or preservation of the data also need to be specified in the study protocol.
You need to identify the strategy for preserving the data during the retention period, including how long and where it will be stored and who will be responsible for the data during this period.
Any plans for data sharing should also be mentioned – with permission to share the data addressed in PIS and Consent form (this is already be included in the existing templates).
The research team should address data quality (identify their quality assurance procedures) and their data organisation and documentation strategy in the data management section of the study protocol.
It is an online system that you can use to manage data management plans as part of grant applications.
For more general information/education on data storage you can check the UK Data Service guidance on storing data or SGUL-specific guidance
Data management advice for staff is provided by the City St George's Research Data Management Service please contact the Research Data Management Service they will be happy to help you.
You need to give details on the retention of the following data in the study protocol (SP) and Participant Information Sheet (PIS):
Personal data
Participant`s contact details
Signed consent form
Transcripts
Research data
Personal data such as a participant`s contact details should be kept securely and for as short a period as possible.
The data should be securely destroyed/deleted no later than at the point when you do not need to identify the participants anymore (e.g.
after data has been cleaned/prepared for analysis and you don`t need to contact the participants anymore).
Consent forms and other hard data must be stored in a lockable cabinet.
If you scanned the documents, the originals must be destroyed as confidential waste (blue bin at the University).
The student’s supervisor (not the student) is responsible for the storage for student projects.
The consent forms should be kept as long as the research data.
Any audio recording should be destroyed as soon as it has been transcribed.
The transcripts should be kept as long as the anonymised research data.
All research data should be securely held for minimum 5 years after the study has finished.
The student’s supervisor (not the student) will hold the responsibility for the data retention and disposal for student projects during this time.
The student research projects` data retention is the Supervisor responsibility.
Audits/service evaluations conducted by students should only be conducted using anonymised patient data.
Please complete the NHS Digital Data Security Awareness Level 1 training
According to the HRA regulation from 1 September 2021, undergraduate student cannot do research with NHS staff.
The HRA decision tool to determinate if the project is research or not
Registration by JRES ( sgulREC@sgul.ac.uk ):
- SAFE form
-          Study protocol
It should state clearly from the beginning of the application this is a service evaluation or audit.
What service will be evaluated?
Audit – what standard will be compared?
The project will need approval from the clinical lead in the department and should also register with the clinical audit team/R&D at the Trust where there are accessing the data.
City St George’s University of London Student Handling NHS Data Policy (pdf)

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-ethics/st-georges-research-ethics-committee:
The SGREC reviews research ethics applications for studies that have been categorised as 'high risk', as per the Ethical review process .
The level of risk is assessed by the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer at the point of validation, and it may be necessary to escalate lower risk applications for committee review where applications require additional consideration.
We therefore advise that all applications are submitted well in advance of the relevant deadline.
Please note that the cut-off time for all application submissions is at 4 pm on the dates listed below.
Meeting date
Application submission deadline
Monday 22 September 2025
Thursday 23 October 2025
Monday 24 November 2025
Thursday 18 December 2025
The Research Ethics and Integrity Officer runs a weekly drop-in session, taking place via MS Teams every Wednesday (3-4 pm).
This is an opportunity to discuss your research ethics application before submitting for review by the SGREC.
Please note that there may be a wait time if there is a queue.
The drop-in sessions can be accessed via this Teams Link.
If you experience any issues with the link, please try accessing via the meeting ID and passcode below.
Meeting ID: 347 534 205 593
Passcode: 3Hh3tU7A
You can also contact the Research Ethics & Integrity Officer via email at any time with any questions/queries you may have.
Professor Paul Heath – SGREC Chair from March 2019 to Present – Professor in Paediatric Infectious Diseases [I&I]
Professor Paul Heath, Professor of Paediatric Infectious Diseases, City St George’s University of London & St George’s University Hospitals NHS Trust, London.
His training in paediatrics and infectious diseases was at the Royal Children’s Hospital, Melbourne, Australia, the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford and St George’s Hospital, London.
His particular research interests are in the epidemiology of vaccine preventable diseases, in clinical vaccine trials, particularly in at-risk groups and in perinatal infections.
He coordinates a European neonatal infection surveillance network (neonIN) and the UK Paediatric Vaccine Group (UKPVG), and other recent work includes national surveillance on neonatal meningitis, neonatal GBS and Listeria infections, maternal immunisation trials and studies of different vaccine schedules in preterm infants.
He sits on national UK committees concerned with meningitis, Group B streptococcus prevention and on immunisation policies in children.
He is Chair of the Research Committee of the European Society of Paediatric Infectious Diseases, Associate Chief Editor of the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Journal and Clinical Lead for Children’s research for the South London Clinical Research Network.
Dr Paris Ataliotis – SGREC Deputy Chair from April 2020 to present - Senior Lecturer in Development Genetics [IMBE]
Dr Ataliotis is involved in general and specialised teaching to undergraduate students on the Biomedical Science BSc, as well as course organisation and assessment.
He also teaches and supervises postgraduate research students at Master's and PhD levels.
He has worked previously as a Senior Research Fellow in Professor Peter Scambler's group at the Institute of Child Health.
This group was instrumental in identifying the genetic cause of 22q11DS and exploring the contribution of individual genes to this disorder, using mouse, chick and frog model systems.
Dr Ataliotis completed his PhD at the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and University College London, where, with colleagues from the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR), he helped to develop Immortomouse.
This genetically modified mouse permits the isolation of immortal cell lines (cells that continue dividing indefinitely) from a variety of embryonic and adult tissues.
Dr Ataliotis's PhD was preceded by 3 years at the National Institute for Medical Research as a Research Officer, studying desmosome cell junctions with Professor Tony Magee, and prior to this a BSc in Biochemistry at Manchester University.
Dr Christopher Carroll - Lecturer in Human Genetics (MCS)
Dr Christopher Carroll is a Lecturer in Human Genetics at City St George’s, University of London.
His research focuses on understanding the genetic causes of rare inherited neurological and metabolic diseases, with focus on mitochondrial disorders.
He completed a PhD in Molecular Medicine at the Institute of Child Health, University College London, followed by an Academy of Finland post-doctoral fellowship at the University of Helsinki where he investigated the molecular mechanisms of inherited mitochondrial diseases.
He teaches on undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses and supervises students undertaking their research projects in his group.
Georgia has a background in nursing and has worked in clinical research for around 20 years.
She is currently the Research Development and Governance Manager at City St George’s and is mainly responsible for the set-up and oversight of interventional clinical trials led by City St George’s.
Marc Moyce – SGREC Secretary from November 2024 to Present , Research Ethics and Integrity Officer [JRES]
Marc joined the JRES team as Research Ethics and Integrity Officer in November 2024, having previously worked in a number of professional service roles within the fields of research ethics and student support.
He currently oversees all research ethics and integrity matters for studies based at the Tooting Campus, in both the School of Health Medical Sciences and the University Hospitals NHS Trust, London.
He also manages the delivery of research ethics and integrity training for students based at the Tooting Campus.
Gill Mein - Senior Lecturer in Health and Wellbeing
She has been Faculty Research Ethics Lead for five years.
She has seen the ethics committee develop from a traditional in person committee to an online committee where she oversaw all the applications from staff and students in the Faculty before sending them out for a second review and decisions.
She is also currently involved in two research projects collaborating with colleagues at CSGUL, and external collaborators.
Her teaching includes BSc and MSc students of physiotherapy, occupational therapy, nurses and midwives in the joint Faculty.
She is a module lead for the Practical Data Analysis module in the CPF programme at CSGUL.
She teaches mainly research methods, but also, health promotion, social inequalities in health, and managing dementia.
She has loved her time as faculty Ethics lead, she felt it kept her updated with current research projects, and helped her identify the future teaching students need.
Dr Kate Everett - Reader In Human Genetics
Dr Kate Everett is a Reader in Human Genetics with a particular interest in epilepsy and neurodevelopmental disorders.
She has a busy educational portfolio teaching across many CSGUL undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Dr Everett supervises BSc and MSc project students, hoping to bring the world of modern genomics alive for them, through active "gene-hunting".
She is currently the Deputy head of the Graduate School with oversight for all postgraduate taught programmes.
Prior to joining CSGUL in 2010, Dr Everett was based at the Institute of Child Health, University College London, and before that had completed her MPhil and PhD at Cambridge University.
She also has PGDip in the Ethics of Medical Research and Biotechnology.
Dr Elizabeth Staddon - Reader in Higher Education Practice and Development
Elizabeth is a Reader in Higher Education Practice and Development at City St George’s within the Centre for Innovation and Development in Education (CIDE).
She has held educational development roles in higher education settings for the past seventeen years, teaching education research methods and ethics, and supervising staff on Masters programmes in academic practice.
Elizabeth holds Masters degrees in Ethics & Social Philosophy and Psychology of Education, and a PhD in Education.
She has completed mixed methods and qualitative research projects on aspects of higher education teaching and learning, and has a strong interest in philosophical theories behind ethical decision-making.
Samantha Laws – Lecturer in the Multi-Professional Education Section
Samantha Laws is a paramedic by background and a Lecturer in the Multi-Professional Education Section at City St George’s, University of London.
This section delivers masters level education to a range of different professionals including paramedics, physiotherapists, occupational therapists and dietitians.
Her teaching is mainly about medicines and evidence based practice and she supervises students undertaking their MSc projects.
She is currently undertaking a PhD at Cardiff University in patient safety, investigating how the process by which patients are non-conveyed following the attendance of an ambulance occurs in real clinical practice.
Her other research is about paramedic practice.
Daniela Vasile - Student Representative
Dani is a third year Physiotherapy student at City St.
George’s University of London and soon to be Certified Integrated Healing Modalities Practitioner.
Her passions lie in healthcare, promoting human rights and holistic wellbeing.
Previous work spans from acting as Senior Campaign Leader in Human Rights at Amnesty International, Clinical Operations Consultant for EU Pharma and Biotech market to Physiotherapy Assistant in the Acute Medical Department at Lewisham NHS Trust.
Through her varied experience Dani has developed a keen interest in research integrity and ethics, especially in the context of small clinical trials.
Hamin Lee - Student Representative
Hamin Lee is an MRC LID PhD candidate interested in mitochondrial diseases and mice models.
He first obtained an undergraduate degree in biomedical sciences at KCL where biomedical scientific interests were cultivated.
Following his interested, he proceeded to study MRes in SGUL which gave him the foundations of research where the core principles and intricacies of research was experienced.
For his master’s project, he studied a mouse model of mitochondrial disease, utilising various molecular biology techniques to accurately characterise the mice.
Afterwards, he went on to work in Henry Houlden’s lab in UCL institute of neurology, one of the biggest rare neurological disease centres in Europe.
There he was exposed to the processes of genetic analysis, such as dissecting exome sequencing data, validation protocols and quality control experiments to ensure the highest level of research was produced.
His journey led him back to his master’s lab where he will be leveraging the latest multi-omic technologies to deeply phenotype the mouse model for his PhD.
Sabrin F.
Mohamed - Student Representative
Sabrin is a medical student at City St George’s, University of London and has an interest across various aspects of research within higher academia.
During her four years at university, she has specialised in ‘Medical Ethics and Law’ and has covered ‘Clinical Ethics’ and ‘Research Ethics’ in depth.
In applying her skills, she has conducted her research study into the ethics and legalities of assisted dying wherein she underwent ethics approval in order to publish her primary data.
Whilst working with Dr Southgate, Sabrin has understood various aspects of the role of a senior principal investigator such as the application of grant approvals as well as reading and analysing data using bioinformatic tools like FinchTV and Chromas.
She wishes to pursue a career as a Clinical Academic.
Nahiedh Khan - Legal adviser at UK Ministry of Justice and Lawyer
Solicitor PQE of 9 years.
I specialise in Criminal law, Extradition law & Confiscation law.
I practice & advice in the magisterial court system.
Dealing with petty criminals to sophiscated crime work, which can have an element of enforcement work to it.
Sue Alexander - Home Maker
Sue has much experience volunteering.
Such experience include; Westmidlands probation service, Narco (Birmingham), Citzen's Advice Bureau, Scope (working for the disabled charity), The Mix (Working with troubled children).
Sue can offer a great insight into everyday life problems but in addition to working closely with people with disabilities and troubled children - she is able to offer advice on those issues.
Dr Victor Paul Olisa - QPM
Victor served as a police officer for 35 years.
He joined Surrey Police in 1982 straight from university.
He transferred to City of London Police in 1990 and worked in various roles, including the Fraud Squad as Detective Inspector.
In 2003 he was seconded to the Home Office to work on Stop and Search, which involved advising Ministers on policy and chief police officers on good practice.
In 2005 he was awarded a PhD in Criminology at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).
He transferred on promotion to the Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) in 2006 and in 2012 was promoted to Chief Superintendent and worked in Bexley and Haringey as Borough Commander.
In 2016 he headed the MPS Diversity and Inclusion Unit.
In 2017, he was awarded the Queen’s Police Medal for distinguished police service.
After retirement in 2017 he worked as a Visiting Fellow at LSE.
He is a visiting lecturer at Universities of Portsmouth, Liverpool John Moores and West London.
He joined the Board of Governors at NACRO in May 2020.
Damion Bailey - Education, Workforce & Professional Development Lead at GSTT
Damion has worked in the NHS for over 25 years, initially qualifying as a Radiographer before undertaking postgraduate education in Nuclear Medicine.
He is currently working as the Education, Workforce and Professional Development Lead in Nuclear Medicine at Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust.
His role involves promoting and supporting the education and training of the multi-disciplinary Nuclear Medicine workforce at a local and national level, in addition to research and audit.
Damion completed his Master of Research degree at SGUL and has an interest in professional identity.
2015 – 2016 (PDF)
2016 – 2017 (PDF)
The SGREC operates under the following regulations .
These documents are reviewed every year at the last SGREC meeting of the year.
Terms of reference (PDF)
Modus operandi (PDF)
Recruitment and Training Policy (PDF)
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) St George’s Research Ethics Committee (CSGREC): Study Application and Review Processes (PDF)

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-ethics/international-research-studies-sponsored-by-csgul:
Sponsorship review:
CTIMPs and interventional studies should be submitted for sponsorship review to the JRES regulatory team .
Once all documents are reviewed the sponsorship process will take 2-4 weeks.
The following documents will be required to facilitate sponsorship:
SOP - Sponsorship and Governance Processes for International Studies at City St George’s, University of London
JRESGOVSOP0003 (CTIMPs)
JRESGOVSOP0028 (non-CTIMPs)
The application will need to be submitted to St George’s Research Ethics Committee (SGREC) first and then to the participating country/countries local Research Ethics Committee(s).
The Ethics Committee will consider the general ethical aspects of your project and it will review the safety aspects, the insurance cover and reputational risk to the University.
International studies collecting primary individual data subject to confidentiality considerations and without a named collaborator in each of the participating countries will not be considered by SGREC unless a local ethics approval has already been obtained from those countries for the same protocol.
The international study as a high-risk study should be led by the Supervisor (Academic staff), study team should have qualitative study expert in the group (if relevant to the research).
SOP can be found on the policies section of the St George’s Research Ethics Committee (SGREC): Study Application and Review Processes
After SGREC provisional approval, you must seek local ethics favourable opinion and sponsor governance approval from the local organisation(s) where the research is taking place and any other local/national approvals required by that organisation and country.
Researchers are required to submit the following to the SGREC when they have received favourable ethics opinion for their project:
An End of Study notification when the study ends
An amendment application if changes to the study are needed, e.g.: amended participant documents, changes to the study design, study dates or study team.
More information on this can be found on the webpage.
Amendments should be submitted first to the local REC and after their approval, to the SGREC.
It will be reviewed by the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer and the Chair or Deputy Chair of the SGREC.
The changes must not be implemented by the study team until approval for the amendment has been received by SGREC and local REC.
For further with the documents please email the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer .
If your research involves the export of human tissue samples from overseas to CSGUL, you need to follow the Human Tissue Authority (HTA) regulation of the import/export of human tissue for research purposes.
Even for countries that do not regulate human tissue research, as a minimum you will be expected to seek assurances from the host institute that the material is ethically sourced and check the consent given, especially if you will use identifiable samples.
For further help understanding SGUL HTA regulation please email the Research Ethics and Integrity Officer .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-ethics/research-ethics-for-projects-which-involve-human-tissue-samples:
Ensure that both research ethics and the Human Tissue Act designated individual (DI), Dr Priya Madhou , are informed about your project/collection.
No Material Transfer Agreement will be signed without ethics registration or favourable ethics opinion from SGREC or NHS REC.
- Research project with human tissue from an HTA-licensed Biobank with generic ethical approval for use of the tissue in research
- Research limited to secondary use of tissue samples previously collected, in the course of normal care in UK, with consent for research and the patients or service users are not identifiable to the research team
- Study protocol: what samples are collected or stored; where will the samples be stored; if the samples are anonymised or are identifiable; what research is planned; what will happen if any are left after the research; what HTA training the researcher has received
- Material Transfer Agreement (MTA) if applicable
- Favourable ethics opinion and study protocol (translated to English where applicable) or evidence of generic approval (Biobank)
Research on human tissue samples requires ethical approval and requires the participant’s consent.
- Research involving volunteers who are not NHS patients, including NHS staff
- The material has been transferred to SGUL from outside of the organisation (UK or outside of UK) for the purposes of research without valid research ethics opinion
- Access to human tissue from a HTA-licensed Biobank without ethical approval for use in research
Any tissue approved for such studies must be stored in an HTA-licenced premise.
- Research involving participants who are NHS patients, collection of tissue from NHS patients
- The use of previously collected tissue from which past or present NHS patients could be identified
- To store or use the tissue of a living or deceased person for a research project on premises without a licence from the HTA
- To store or use tissue from the living for a research project without consent where the samples are anonymised to the researcher
- To analyse human DNA in material from the body of a living person (or using the results of DNA analysis) without consent, in circumstances where the researcher is unable to identify the tissue donor and not likely to be able to do so in the future
- To store or use tissue for a research project where consent is required and the tissue is from adults unable to consent for themselves
- To export tissue from the living and there is no consent in place for use in future research
- Undertake the MRC human tissue e-learning training , once you are on the page choose Research and Human Tissue Legislation - updated.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-events:
Research Day is an annual event held in December to showcase the world class research done at St George’s.
It is an opportunity for staff and students to meet and share ongoing research work and ideas, to promote discussion and to strengthen collaboration across the university.
Jenner Day is a yearly celebration of infection and immunity research in honour of one of St George’s most famous alumni, the vaccinologist Edward Jenner.
Explore the programme designed to bring together researchers across the university, to inspire, educate and encourage collaboration.
Check the full events calendar for 2025.
Use this form to share details about your research event with the Research Events and Communications Team.
Provide as much information as possible and submit your request early to ensure the best support.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-events/research-institutes-weekly-seminars:
Event: TBA
Speaker(s):
Hosts :
Date : Monday
Time : 12.00 - 13.00
How to join :  Lecture Theatre A (Hunter Wing, Level 0) City St George’s, Tooting Campus and on MS Teams
Event :  tba
Speaker(s) :
Date: Tuesday
How to join :
Teaching Room J1.42 (Jenner Wing, Level 1), City St George’s, Tooting Campus and online via MS teams
Event : Current challenges in the management of drug-resistant TB
S peaker(s): Sean Wasserman
Host: Audrey Teh
Date: 30 July 2025
Time: 12.00 - 13.00
How to join: The Curve Lecture Theatre (Hunter Wing, Level 0), City St George's, Tooting Campus and via MS Teams: Join the meeting now
Event 1:  tba
Speaker(1):
Event 2:
Speakers(2) :
Date: Thursday
Time: 13.00 - 14.00
Host: Jodi Lindsay
How to join: The Curve Lecture Theatre (Hunter Wing, Level 0) and via MS Teams:  join us for coffee, cake and fruit afterwards in I&I reception from 14.00 - 14.30

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-events/research-day:
Research Day is an annual event held in December to showcase the world class research done across our university.
It is an opportunity for staff and students to meet and share ongoing research work and ideas, to promote discussion and to strengthen collaboration.
The event is comprised of a number of short oral presentations from staff, poster presentations, research awards and the Thomas Young Lecture.
Research Day 2024 will take place on Wednesday 11 December 2024.
We will add more information about Research Day 2024 to this page as it is available.
Join us for Research Day, our annual event showcasing the world class research done across our university.
11 December 2024
Register to attend this year's Thomas Young Lecture at Research Day which will be delivered by Professor Chris Witty and is entitled "The role of the State in preventing disease".
Take a look at the winning and commending submissions for Research Image of the Year which will be used to promote Research Day 2024.
Learn about the Outstanding Research Awards which celebrate achievements in research across City St George's in the past year.
If you are presenting a poster at Research Day please follow these instructions to ensure that your poster is uploaded, printed, displayed and collected correctly.
For Research Day enquiries, please contact Cheryl Watson on cfurness@citystgeorges.ac.uk .
Below, you can browse pages to find out about Research Day from previous years, including details of the Thomas Young Lecture and prizewinners.
Join us for Research Day, our annual event showcasing the world class research done at St George’s, University of London.
06 December 2023
Research Day is an annual event to showcase the world class research done at St George’s, University of London.
07 December 2022
St George’s, University of London celebrated its flagship event showcasing the university’s scientific achievements, with the annual Research Day taking place last week.
17 December 2021
02 December 2020
Find out more about our 2019 celebration of research at St George's.
Professor Sir Munir Pirmohamed closed this year's Research Day with his talk, "Precision medicine: do we need it?"
13 December 2019
Meet the recipients of St George's research prizes

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/infection-and-immunity/events/jenner-day.aspx:
Jenner Day is a yearly celebration of infection and immunity research in honour of one of City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences most famous alumni, the vaccinologist Edward Jenner.
At each meeting, investigators from the Institute for Infection and Immunity at City St George’s welcome friends and colleagues from across London, particularly from our major research partners (St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine), other universities, UK Health Security Agency, the National Institute of Biological Standards and Controls, the Pirbright Institute, and the Animal and Plant Health Agency.
Presentations from researchers at City St George’s and invited colleagues cover a range of topics in academic and clinical sciences.
These presentations feature work on major human bacterial, viral, parasitic and fungal pathogens and highlight our range of research interests; from molecular biology to systems biology, and from diagnostics to therapy and vaccines.
A highpoint of each meeting is the keynote Jenner Lecture, given by a distinguished speaker, whose work has had a major global health impact.
Jenner Day 2024 will be held on Wednesday 11 September 2024 .
The Jenner Lecture will be held by Professor Rino Rappuoli who  is Scientific Director of the Biotecnopolo di Siena Foundation and head of MAD Lab Toscana Life Sciences, Italy.
He is also Honorary Professor of Vaccinology at Imperial College, London, and Senior Professor of Molecular Biology at the University of Siena.
Rino Rappuoli is Scientific Director of the Biotecnopolo di Siena Foundation and Head of MAD Lab Toscana Life Sciences, Italy and previous positions include Head R&D and Chief Scientist at GSK Vaccines, Head of Vaccine R&D at Novartis, CSO at Chiron Corporation and Head R&D at Sclavo.
Rino has introduced multiple novel scientific concepts to the field of vaccinology: genetic detoxification; cellular microbiology; reverse vaccinology; pangenome.
He has developed a number of now licensed vaccines: acellular pertussis containing a non-toxic mutant of pertussis toxin; first conjugate vaccine against meningococcus C; conjugate vaccines against meningococcus ACYW; MF59-adjuvanted seasonal and pandemic influenza; meningococcus B by reverse vaccinology; cell culture-based influenza vaccine and CRM 197 as the carrier of most conjugate vaccines.
As founder of the GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health (GVGH) Professor Rappuoli is among the world scientific leaders dedicated to the sustainability of global health.
Learn more and register here .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-operations:
Research Operations plays a crucial role in providing administrative, technical support, and logistical processes that facilitate the smooth functioning of research activities within the University.
Find out more about how the Directorate engages with the research community at St George’s.
Research administration services support research activities of St George’s by providing efficient and high-quality administration to all research staff.
Learn more about the variety of support services for laboratory research.
Find out about allocation of research space at St George’s.
Find out more about the services we offer – light microscopy, histology and cell sorting.
Learn more about the services supporting animal research at St George’s.
How to Arrive and Thrive at City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences (PDF) is a guide aiming to fulfil a dual purpose – being a welcome reference document to new research and academic staff arriving to City St George’s, dealing with some of the most frequently asked questions and helping new staff settle into their roles; and also acting as a helpful day-to-day reference of services on offer for the current staff.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-operations/about-us:
Mission: Our mission is to support research to be successful.
We provide an exceptional research environment, agile support and foster excellence through collaboration, continual improvement, and equal opportunities.
Vision: We will create a sustainable environment where research can succeed through collaboration, ambition, continual improvement, mutual respect and a commitment to equality.
Read about our technical support and how to contact the Technical Helpdesk (Labhelp) with requests for technical laboratory help.
Read general administrative support information, including for GAT and SGRQ.
Requests for the Zebrafish Unit/Biological Research Facility should be sent to brfinfo@sgul.ac.uk.
Request information about the Image Resource Facility, including how to book time on equipment, should be sent to irf@sgul.ac.uk.
Research events and communications help is available here.
Help with finance, purchasing and travel is available here.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-operations/research-administration:
We support research at the University with a variety of administrative services to deliver our ambitious new forward focused strategy and commitment to the ever evolving research needs of society.
The majority of us are currently based in office 2.260F, second floor of Jenner Wing.
Our skills and experience support the following administrative branches:
Our experienced staff will support you with organising research events and distributing communications to the research environment.
Our experienced team help manage your research in terms of funding (with the JRES), purchasing consumables and services, and your travel requirements.
Our experienced team of administrators provide extensive administrative support to the research community within St George’s.
Cheryl Watson , Head of Administration and Executive Officer to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise)
I work Monday to Thursday.
I manage and lead the whole administative team in the provision of an effective administrative service for the City St George’s research environment.
I have oversight of the three administrative branches and work closely with colleagues in the Research Operations Directorate and other University professional services to ensure seamless delivery.
My role includes anticipating/troubleshooting challenges to service delivery, and supporting academic colleagues with administrative queries.
I also am the Executive Officer to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise),  which means I have been involed with the development of University strategic research and policy planning, as well as his diary management.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-operations/lab-services:
Browse the items below to find out more about the laboratory services we offer.
If you require technical laboratory help please contact the Laboratory Helpdesk by emailing labhelp@sgul.ac.uk .
Find out about our range of centrally supported equipment, including Autoclaves, Centrifuges and other essential communal resources
Find out about services such as shipping of hazardous/other research materials, parcel delivery, liquid nitrogen storage, freezer monitoring and in-house equipment repair service
Read the guidelines and processes required for working with GMOs at the School of Health and Medical Sciences
Find out more about the access provision and support of the containment laboratory suite.
Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework - for sustainable and cost-effective laboratory management, teaching and research.
Proud recipients of 2023 Team of the Year Award, for consistently demonstrating a level of professionalism, dedication, and solidarity that is truly commendable.
Click to open image of certificate.
Our experienced team help manage your research in terms of purchasing consumables and services, and travel requirements.
Please contact Ariel Poliandri to discuss and arrange equipment demonstrations.
Demonstration of equipment involves arranging a laboratory and/or a space to conduct the demonstration, contacting the supplier to arrange delivery of the equipment to be demonstrated, negotiating a time period that will be suitable to fully test the equipment, and finally contacting the supplier to arrange the collection and return the equipment.
There is no charge to the supplier for these exhibitions.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-operations/research-space:
Research space at City St George's (Tooting campus) accommodates staff from our research institutes, the Institute of Medical and Biomedical Allied Education, and the Research Operations Team.
These teams are situated within the Jenner Wing, with their offices and specialised laboratories spanning the ground, first, and second floors.
Research space is overseen and managed by the Space Management Group, to ensure that the needs of the research community are appropriately met.
The Space Management Group meets four times per year.
Its guiding principles are set by the City St George’s Space Policy .
The expected behaviours during the occupation of laboratory space in Jenner Wing are set forth in the Occupation of Laboratory Space Policy.
Requests for space (laboratory, office or storage) will be accepted through the year but evaluated on a monthly or quarterly basis (depending on the complexity of the request).
For any request to be considered at the Management Group’s meeting, it must be submitted at least two weeks prior to the next meeting.
To initiate a space request, please complete the following Space Request Form.
The form will be reviewed by a panel of the Space Management Group.
For any general inquiries regarding space or the form, please contact spacerequests@sgul.ac.uk .
If you have specific queries related to Research Space, you can also reach out to researchspacereq@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/research-operations/image-resource-facility:
Welcome to the Imaging Resource Facility (IRF), a central biomedical resource of the School of Health and Medical Sciences.
The IRF provides support as well as a high standard of service to the university researchers, St George’s NHS Trust and other academic institutions in a wide range of bioimaging disciplines.
First established in 2014, the IRF provides access to Light Microscopy, Flow Cytometry and Histology methodologies and sample preparation, all housed in a single department providing a range of imaging analysis options and the expertise to compliment them.
Users of the IRF have the ability to image histology samples, cells and molecules of all varieties, and model organisms such as zebrafish using any of the light microscope, slide scanning, or Flow cytometry systems we maintain, supported by experienced staff at all stages of analysis.
Access all documentation and account creation links for using the facility
We support research with resources for Light Microscopy, Flow Cytometry, and Histology.
Learn about the research technologies available in the IRF.
Useful resources for users of the facility; for learning and experiment planning.
To find out how the Imaging Resource Facility can contribute to your teaching endeavour, please contact irf@sgul.ac.uk
To inquire about public engagement initiatives with the Imaging Resource Facility, please contact irf@sgul.ac.uk
For help in costing your planned work in the Imaging Resource Facility for grant applications, please contact irf@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-research-facilities/biological-research-facility/home.aspx:
In a first step toward reopening our refurbished Biological Research Facility (BRF), we have now opened a new state of the art Zebrafish Unit .
Our team of highly specialised technicians are committed to supporting scientific excellence and maintaining the highest standards of animal welfare.
Browse the pages below to find out more about the BRF.
The BRF is responsible for ensuring that research requiring animals at St George's is carried out with the best possible welfare standards.
Our purpose-built Zebrafish Unit houses and cares for zebrafish used at St George’s for biomedical research.
St George's is committed to developing and using alternatives to the use of animals whenever possible.
Find out how animal research requests are assessed at St George's.
We are committed to a policy of openness and transparency in every respect, and the use of animals by scientists to find treatments and cures for medical conditions is no different.
Information on the number of animals used for scientific procedures under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 are reported annually to the UK Home Office.
The following links will provide information about organisations associated with animals in medical research.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-research-facilities/human-tissue-act:
The Human Tissue Act 2004 (HT Act) regulates how human tissue is removed, stored and used.
The Human Tissue Authority (HTA) is the regulator that sets the standards for safe and ethical use of human tissue samples, enforces compliance, and issues licences for relevant activities under the act.
At St George’s, University of London, we currently hold the following licences:
HTA licensing number 12335
Under this licence we have the right to collect, archive and store human tissue samples ( relevant material ) for the purposes of carrying out research ( scheduled purposes ) which are carried out under ethical approval from the Research Ethics Service (RES) .
The HTA research licence does not license the research process itself.
Collection and storage of human tissues can be made under City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences HTA research licence, but research on those holdings cannot commence until ethical approval is obtained from RES.
HTA licensing number 12330
Under this licence we have the right to store whole bodies and body parts for anatomical examination, education or training relating to human health, and research in connection with disorders, or the functioning of the human body.
The School of Health & Medical Sciences' Pathology Museum licence is also held under the anatomy licence.
Documentation and processes for St George's staff when handling human tissue samples.
Read the documentation related to St George's anatomy licence: the licence to educate and the Pathology Museum.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-research-facilities/partners:
At City St George’s, we have an international reputation for research and innovation.
We have strong links with other institutions, reinforcing our research opportunities and offerings.
The most significant research collaboration at St George’s is with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust .
The University and the Hospital together form a co-located teaching hospital and healthcare-university partnership in south London.
We have always shared the tripartite mission of medical schools and their teaching hospitals – teaching, research, and clinical service.
The South West London and St George's Mental Health Trust provides the full range of mental health and social care services for the local population including those with learning disabilities, children and adolescents, adults of working age and older people.
In addition, the trust provide regional and national specialist services, including eating disorders, personality disorders, forensics and deaf services.
Academic Health and Social Care Network Provides world-class health and social care services to people living in south west London.
This partnership is made up of all of the key health and social care organisations in South West London’s six boroughs.
City St George's has been awarded funding from the Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) .
The fund enables universities to invest in areas of research relating to medical and clinical sciences, public health, social sciences and medical humanities.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-research-facilities/community-rehabilitation-research-network-crrn/home.aspx:
The Community Rehabilitation Research Network (CRRN) supports community-based health and social care professionals to understand how to bring their rehabilitation research ideas to fruition.
We are an inclusive, UK national, multidisciplinary group and support researchers from all backgrounds and with any level of experience.
If you are looking for guidance to develop a research project related to community rehabilitation, we have compiled development resources for community rehabilitation professionals who want to grow research ideas and progress research careers.
We hope this will help to advance your research journey and support your research career.
The CRRN is an NIHR-supported Incubator that was formed in 2024 and is based at City St George’s, University of London.
New research projects need inspiration.
These resources to get research started include examples about ways to get involved with research activity, case studies, videos and current UK research priorities.
Research is always conducted in a group.
These resources to make research connections include advice from a range of sources, places to link up with peers, and how to collaborate to strengthen research design and impact.
Research is a pillar of advanced practice and is therefore vital for continuing professional development (CPD).
These resources to grow research careers include personal and professional development support and guidance.
Funding is needed for research projects and career development.
These resources about getting research funding include advice and a list of some of the financial support available.
Our objectives include:
The CRRN objectives to help build research capacity in the area of community rehabilitation were developed in an application to the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) incubator initiative.
The objectives were then agreed by the CRRN steering committee.
*Definitions of underrepresented professions and groups can be found here
The CRRN is run for our members and with our members.
This means we support and welcome involvement from anyone who wants to do or does research in the area of community rehabilitation.
Network Map
Locations of our members, collaborators and steering group members are shown on this map.
Structure
The structure of the network is inclusive to reflect what our community wants and needs.
We welcome all members to get involved as collaborators or directly with the steering group.
CRRN activities are informed using a collaborative, co-design approach.
If you have ideas about what you need from us or you would like to get more involved, get in touch at communityrehab@sgul.ac.uk .
Professor Lindsay Bearne (founding member)
Professor Bearne’s research focuses on the consequences and rehabilitation of people with long term conditions (rheumatic, musculoskeletal and vascular disease), and the translation of evidence into practice and policy.
Her education portfolio is centred on postgraduate research supervision and research capacity building for allied health professional clinical academic researchers.
Alongside this, Professor Bearne is a Senior Research Fellow in knowledge mobilization and implementation science at the National Institute of Health and Care Research.
Professor Iain Beith (founding member)
Dr Iain Beith is a Professor of Health Education, with a range of experience across all healthcare professions, primarily but not exclusively focused on education provision.
Iain brings that profession spanning insight, and this range of experience to the conversations and developing outputs from the hub.
This fits with his role as Academic lead for External Engagement at St George’s University of London and from August the 1 st 2024 at City St George’s once the two institutions have merged.
He is committed to optimizing the opportunity of this larger and more cross cutting organisation.
Professor Fiona Jones (founding member)
Fiona is a Professor of Rehabilitation Research at City St George’s, University of London, she has led studies to evaluate self-management approaches within healthcare teams including stroke, acute brain injury, major trauma and currently long Covid.
In 2013 Fiona set up a social enterprise ‘Bridges Self-management’, which is an approach to self-management which started in stroke and is now co-delivered with people living with complex long-term conditions and used by healthcare teams across the UK.
Fiona’s focus is on co-design and working in partnership with patients, families, and clinical teams to develop and implement self-management training, interventions, and resources.
Associate Professor Jackie McRae (founding member)
Dr Jackie McRae is the Academic Lead for Research in the Centre for Allied Health and a Speech and Language Therapist with 30 years’ experience working with adults in intensive care with complex communication and swallowing disorders.
Jackie has been a successful awardee of NIHR fellowships and provides mentorship and supervision to current applicants.
She is a Research Champion for the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists supporting research capacity development.
Dr Sarah Roberts-Lewis (Manager)
Sarah is a post-doctoral research associate in the Population Health Research Institute at City St George’s, University of London.
She manages the CRRN, coordinating its implementation and delivery.
As an early career researcher, Sarah has firsthand experience of the NIHR application process.
With a clinical background in neuro-physiotherapy, Sarah’s research interests include translating evidence into practice, neurorehabilitation, and inclusive physical activity.
Steering Group Members include:
This Incubator is supported by the National Institute for Health and Care Research.
The views expressed here are those of the author(s) and not necessarily those of the NIHR or the Department of Health and Social Care.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/joint-research-and-enterprise-services/home.aspx:
The Enterprise and Innovation Office provides professional and experienced support for all commercialisation and innovation activity at St George’s.
Learn more about research funding opportunities, and how to apply for and manage funding.
Resources, guidance and templates for clinical research delivery.
Guidance for if you are currently setting up a study or have an existing study sponsored by St George's.
Read our guidance on the types of contracts you may need for your research.
Apply to Research Ethics Committee and learn other key research ethics information
Guidance and legal requirements for security issues in international research collaboration

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about:
Facts and figures, the history of our institution and more about what drives us.
Read our strategy and learn about our long-term goals.
Meet our leadership team and learn about our corporate operations.
We have been awarded £5.8 million which will be used to enhance our hands-on skills facilities, create new student study spaces and equip the campus for efficient digital learning and study.
Learn more about our student accommodation, research facilities and more.
Meet our professional and corporate services teams.
Learn about our Graduate School and our centres for Technology, and Innovation and Development in education.
Information on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) for staff, including what support and training is available and what policies apply to people who work for us.
Read our latest news.
Explore our range of public events.
Learn more about research institutes at our Tooting campus.
Help us to enable every student and researcher at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) to thrive.
Find out how you can join the City St George's (Tooting campus) team.
We are based in Tooting in south west London.
We have been here since our move from Hyde Park Corner in 1980.
This information is for both students and staff, and it is here to guide you to the various accessibility information across our campus.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are:
Here we share 10 fun and useful facts you probably didn't know about City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences.
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) takes pride in the diversity that exists in both its students and staff.
Meet our senior leadership team.
Our values define what makes City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) a distinctive community, guiding our behaviours and shaping our culture.
The Athena SWAN team aims to encourage representation, progression and success for all.
Explore these pages and learn more about our public engagement work, find out about our events, discover how to get involved.
Learn more about our long, illustrious history of training doctors, dating back more than 250 years.
Our ‘Inspiring Minds’ campaign is an opportunity to celebrate the achievements of our people and show what it means to us to be part of City St George's (Tooting) community.
School's newly arrived or promoted professors are invited to give an inaugural lecture to mark this milestone in their academic careers.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/facts-and-figures:
City St George’s, University of London is the University of business, practice and the professions.
City St George’s attracts around 27,000 students from more than 150 countries.
Our academic range is broadly-based with world-leading strengths in business, law, health and medical sciences, mathematics, computer science, engineering, social sciences, and the arts including journalism, dance and music.
In August 2024, St George's, University of London merged with City, University of London creating a powerful multi-faculty institution.
The combined university is now one of the largest suppliers of the health workforce in the capital, as well as one of the largest higher education destinations for London students.
City St George’s campuses are spread across London in Clerkenwell, Moorgate and Tooting, where we share a clinical environment with a major London teaching hospital.
*The English Social Mobility Index, London South Bank University
This data set covers data on finance, staff, students, research and estates.
Read the St George's vision, mission and strategy.
Find out who we are.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/equality-and-diversity:
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) takes pride in the diversity that exists in both its students and staff.
We want to celebrate and harness this diversity so that everyone can fulfil their true potential.
Everyone is encouraged to make a contribution and is valued as a member of our community.
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting)s strategic vision 2030 sets out the values that define what makes the School a distinctive community, guiding our behaviours and shaping our culture.
In all our interactions, we believe in acting with integrity.
Our values guide the way in which we aim to operate.
Working effectively and with dedication to perform to the highest standards.
Being responsible and accountable for our choices and decisions.
Listening and treating each other fairly and honestly.
Learning from experience and reflecting on our choices and decisions.
Shaping an inclusive environment in which diversity is valued.
Communicating openly and transparently.
Participating in life at the School and, through education and research, empowering our people to contribute to, influence and improve society and communities.
Influencing effectively across the sectors in which we operate.
Our stance on equality is underpinned by the Equality Act (2010) and, more specifically, the Public Sector Equality Duty (section 149 of the Equality Act).
The Equality Act protects the rights of individuals with certain protected characteristics and sets out which behaviours are unlawful.
Under this act, the following characteristics are protected by law: age, disability, gender identity, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion and belief, sex, and sexual orientation.
The Public Sector Equality Duty (PSED) places a statutory obligation on public sector organisations to pay ‘due regard’ to equality in all of their policies, practices and procedures.
This means public bodies must:
eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other conduct prohibited by the Equality Act
advance equality of opportunity between people who share a protected characteristic and those who do not
foster good relations between people who share a protected characteristic and those who do not.
Our School will not tolerate any type of discrimination, victimisation or harassment and has put in place initiatives to help it meet its commitment under the PSED.
Everyone who works or studies at the School of Health & Medical Sciences will be encouraged to be part of our community and differences will be respected and celebrated.
The School has a diversity and inclusion steering group co-chaired by the Deputy Principal of Institutional Affairs and the Director of HR and consists of senior colleagues from across the university, including the Principal.
This steering group reports to the School Council, which has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the university operates within the legal framework of the Equality Act and monitors the implementation of our equality statement.
A separate diversity and inclusion working group leads on the implementation of our diversity and inclusion vision and feeds directly into the diversity and inclusion steering group.
This group consists of operational leads and interested parties from across the university ensuring that equality, diversity and inclusion are championed across all university functions.
Find out more about equality and diversity at the School of Health & Medical Sciences..

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/leadership-team:
Professor Sir Anthony Finkelstein is the President of City St George's.
Professor Sir Anthony Finkelstein joined City, University of London as the University’s President in June 2021.
Prior to that he had served as the Government’s Chief Scientific Adviser for National Security since 2015.
During that time, Anthony’s research was based at The Alan Turing Institute and he held a Chair in Software Systems Engineering at University College London (UCL).
Prior to this, he was Dean of the UCL Faculty of Engineering Sciences and Head of UCL Computer Science.
His scientific work is in the broad area of systems engineering.
Anthony has strong personal links to City; he was a Professor and the Head of Computer Science at City between 1994 and 1997, prior to his appointment at University College London.
In 2018, Anthony was awarded an honorary degree by City for his outstanding contribution to science.
He is a Visiting Professor at Imperial College London, the University of South Australia and at the National Institute of Informatics, Tokyo, Japan.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering (FREng), an elected Member of Academia Europaea (MAE) and a Fellow of the City and Guilds of London Institute (FCGI).
Learn about the structure of City St George's, University of London .
Professor Elisabeth Hill has been appointed to role of Deputy President & Provost at City St George's.
Professor Elisabeth Hill joined legacy City as Deputy President in September 2022.
She has responsibility for shaping and delivering the Strategic Transformation Programme to enable the realisation of City’s vision and strategic plan (2022-30).
Elisabeth is the senior lead for delivery of the requirements and benefits of the merger.
Prior to joining, Elisabeth held various leadership roles at Goldsmiths, University of London including Deputy Warden, ProWarden Academic, Head of the School of Arts & Humanities, and Head of the Department of Psychology.
Elisabeth is Professor of Neurodevelopmental Disorders, completing a BSc (Hons) Psychology at Lancaster University and her PhD at the Medical Research Council’s Applied Psychology Unit (now Cognition & Brain Sciences Unit), graduating from the University of Cambridge.
She subsequently worked as a Research Associate in the Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge and as a Research Fellow at the Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London.
Elisabeth’s research focuses on neurodevelopmental disorders, and particularly developmental co-ordination disorder (sometimes referred to as dyspraxia or DCD) and autism, as well as the relationship between cognitive, social, and motor development in typical and atypical populations, and their broader impacts on mental health, academic and employment outcomes.
Further strands of research within this sphere consider the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on these developmental relationships, and their impact on children and their parents within daily life, educational experience, and outcomes.
Professor Natalie Armstrong is the Executive Dean of the School of Health and Medical Sciences at City St George’s, University of London.
She holds degrees in Politics & Sociology (University of Warwick), Medical Sociology (MSc, Royal Holloway), and a PhD (University of Nottingham).
Her career includes roles at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, University of Warwick, and University of Leicester, where she became Professor of Healthcare Improvement Research and Head of the Department of Health Sciences.
Currently, she serves as Deputy Head of the College of Life Sciences and a Non-Executive Director for the University Hospitals of Northamptonshire Group.
She also leads research within NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) East Midlands and the NIHR Greater Manchester Patient Safety Research Collaboration.
Professor Jon Friedland is a leading figure in infectious disease research and leadership.
His dual role as Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise) and Professor of Infectious Diseases at legacy St George's, University of London reflects his extensive experience in both fields.
Friedland has further solidified his expertise by publishing over 240 peer-reviewed papers, invited editorials and reviews, and 3 books.
Friedland's leadership extends beyond academia.
He chaired the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) Expert Working Group on COVID-19 Therapeutics, demonstrating his expertise and ability to guide critical decision-making processes during the pandemic.
This dedication to translating research into practical applications is further evidenced by his recent appointment as President-elect and Secretary General of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (ESCMID).
Professor Juliet John (FRSA, FEA) joined legacy City in September 2020 as the Dean of Arts & Social Sciences.
She was previously Hildred Carlile Chair of English Literature at Royal Holloway, University of London from 2012-20.
Before joining Royal Holloway, she was Professor of English at the University of Liverpool and had spent 20 years working at institutions in the North West of England - the University of Manchester, the University of Salford and Edge Hill University.
An internationally recognised Dickensian, she is academic advisor to the Dickens Museum, has advised the Museum of London, is a Fellow of Gladstone’s Library and twice a Trustee of the Dickens Society of America.
While at the University of Liverpool, she founded and led the Gladstone Centre for Victorian Studies for a decade and was PI on the AHRC-funded Gladstone Cataloguing and Annotation Project.
She is an elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, a Fellow of the English Association, a strategic reviewer and member of the Arts and Humanities Research Council Peer Review College.
Professor Susannah Quinsee is Vice President (Digital & Student Experience) and Senior Diversity Ambassador for Race Equality at City.
She leads on the University's response to digital transformation and how this will impact on the student experience.
Susannah is a Lego Serious Play facilitator and uses this in many aspects of her work.
Previously Director of Learning Development and Chair in Learning and Teaching Development at the University, she has also worked as a lecturer and in academic support roles at a number of other higher education institutions in the UK, in addition to leading on large scale institutional change projects.
In 2017, she was appointed as a Learning and Teaching Excellence Ambassador by the Higher Education Academy to promote educational development.
In 2011, Susannah was awarded a National Teaching Fellowship.
Susannah’s current research focuses on playful leadership and change management.
She has undertaken consultancy work for other Universities and national agencies including the Centre for Excellence in Leadership and the Leadership Foundation, now part of AdvanceHE.
Dr Sionade Robinson is an alumna of legacy City and formally joined its Faculty of Management in the Bayes Business School in 2010, as Course Director for the Full Time MBA Programme.
She then led the globally ranked MBA Programme as Associate Dean, developing and teaching a range of marketing, consulting and leadership courses on MBA, MSc and Undergraduate programmes as well for Executive Education.
Prior to re-starting her academic career, Sionade had worked for many years as a management consultant.
Sionade began her career with Boston based consultancy The Forum Corporation in strategy implementation for clients such as British Airways, the BBC and BP.
She also worked for operational improvement consultancy Celerant, now Hitachi Consulting before founding her own firm which advised blue chip companies on implementing strategies of service excellence, customer loyalty and strategic management of customer relationships.
From January 2020, Sionade was appointed to the role of Associate Dean of People and Culture to lead an increased focus on EDI in the School and enjoys serving, with excellent cross institutional colleagues, on a variety of the University's EDI committees.
Sionade is affiliated with the Centre for Innovation and Disruption and a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society.
Professor Jones Nielsen joined legacy City in March 2013.
She is a Reader in the Department of Psychology and serves as the Assistant Vice-President (EDI).
Professor Jones Nielsen was awarded a PhD in Counseling Psychology from the University of Florida, United States in 2010.
Her PhD research investigated treatment adherence among a national sample of Hispanic primary care patients using a patient-centered culturally sensitive healthcare model.
After completing her postdoctoral clinical training at Duke University's Counseling and Psychological Services in 2011, she worked for two years as a Research Associate at Imperial College London's Department of Primary Care & Public Health before taking up her present post.
Helen Watson has been appointed to the role of Chief Operating Officer at City St George's.
Helen joined as Chief Operating Officer in February 2022.
Helen came back to the University after five years at Goldsmiths University of London, where she was Chief Operating Officer and Registrar and Secretary.
Before that she worked for six years at the University of Oxford where she was Director of Planning and Resource Allocation, Head of the Council Secretariat and a Fellow of Exeter College.
Helen worked previously at legacy City, from 2001-2010.
She held a variety of roles including Head of Administration for the School of Allied Health Sciences and Deputy Academic Registrar; she also set up and lead City's Strategy and Planning Unit.
Helen read music at Exeter College, Oxford and has a Masters in Higher and Professional Education from the Institute of Education.
Helen is an elected member of the Executive of the Association of Heads of University Administration (AHUA).
She was previously on the Board of the Higher Education Strategic Planners Association (HESPA).
Dr Mark Hollingsworth joined City, University of London, in October 2022 as Deputy Chief Operating Officer and has decades of experience in Higher Education.
Formerly at the University of Birmingham for five years as Director of Academic Affairs, Mark has also worked at Warwick Business School and Loughborough University among others.
Mark line-manages all of the School Operational Leads (Directors of Operations; and School COOs) and central Professional Services Directors (Academic Registrar; Director of Careers and Employability; and Director of Student Services), and is responsible for all of the Professional Services staff in those Schools and Directorates.
Mark holds a number of non-executive positions outside the University and the sector, and has been tasked with leading panels undertaking independent reviews of HE services at both departmental and institutional level in the UK, Europe, and the ASEAN region.
Matthew is the Senior Director of Operations and is responsible for leading a large professional administration team within the School of Health & Psychological Sciences (SHPS).
Working with colleagues across City, University of London, the Senior Director of Operations provides high-level management support for the effective operation of programmes and the associated student experience in the School.
The Senior Director of Operations is a member of the School Executive and Senior Management Team and supports the Dean with the strategic development of the School.
Matt has held senior roles in a wide variety of higher education departments, with experience of working for a Students’ Union, Registrar’s department, national complaints ombudsman and several Schools at City.
Matt holds an MSc in Information Technology Security.
The senior management team consists of the below deans, directors of institutes and directors of professional services in addition to the above senior leadership team.
Director of Finance
Miss Susan McPheat
Email: smcpheat@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Phone: 0208 725 0395
Chief People Officer
Marcelle Moncrieffe-Newman
Laurel Melsom; Executive Assistant: laurel.melsom@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Director of Planning
Academic Registrar
Deputy Director of Campus Services
Keith Poles
Email: kpoles@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Director of Marketing and Recruitment, City St George's
Tim Longden
Email: tim.longden.1@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Director of Marketing, Student Recruitment and Admissions
Director of Communications and Engagement
Director of Governance Support, Development & Integration
Director of Joint Research and Enterprise Services
Director of Research Operations
Interim Director of Quality and Partnerships
Director of Education Operations and Programme Management
Emma Embleton
Email: edyer@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Director of the Institute for Infection and Immunity
Professor Paul T.
Heath Email: pheath@ citystgeorges .ac.uk
Research Institute Manager: Jennifer Lock
Director of the Cardiovascular and Genomics Research Institute
Professor Elijah Behr Email: ebehr@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Research Institute Manager: Giuseppe Avagnale
Director of the Neurosciences and Cell Biology Research Institute
Professor Franklyn Howe
Email: howefa@ citystgeorges .ac.uk
Research Institute Manager: Ann-Marie Strudwick
Director of the Population Health Research Institute
Director of Cross Cutting Research Themes
Director of Digital Education and Transformation
Dean for Student Conduct and Compliance
Dean for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Dr Vanessa Ho Email: vho@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Dean for Student Welfare and Support

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/our-leadership-attributes:
These values are:
For our staff to thrive in the complex, uncertain, and rapidly changing world of the higher education sector, our School needs to enable, encourage, develop and grow its leaders and managers to deliver the university’s ambition and vision.
Download: City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) Leadership Attributes (PDF)
Demonstrates pride in the School and drive, determination and ambition for the future.
Makes decisions and prioritises actions driven by a sense of what is right for the School.
Takes ownership, accountability and responsibility.
Engenders a positive belief and a “can-do” attitude.
Inspires others with a clear vision of the future.
Achieves results in challenging times.
Demonstrates sound judgment and an ability to handle complexity and uncertainty.
Consistently and clearly communicates the vision and strategy.
Is adaptable and flexible to changing contexts.
Has a clear focus on the longer-term vision and priorities.
Responds to changing opportunities and risks.
Is future focused and scans the horizon.
Encourages and promotes a culture of teams and teamwork.
Inspires and motivates, creating alignment of individual and university objectives.
Understands what motivates staff.
Sets clear objectives and expectations and supports staff to achieve these.
Creates a shared view of objectives, outcomes and success.
Delegates, trusts and empowers staff.
Empowers staff to take initiative, innovate and have the confidence to achieve.
Creates, influences and nurtures internal and external relationships, networks and partnerships.
Is visible and accessible, communicating effectively with a wide range of people.
Demonstrates an inclusive and consultative approach to change and decision making.
Listens effectively with respect, understanding and empathy.
Invites others to contribute and share their views.
Demonstrates openness, honesty and transparency.
Values and respects diversity and creates an inclusive environment.
Demonstrates commitment, dedication, personal responsibility and accountability.
Demonstrates empathy: listens and treats colleagues with fairness and honesty.
Acts with integrity.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/inspiring-minds:
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) is a healthcare community whose work has been felt across the globe.
Inspiring Minds tells the stories of the unique individuals who make up our community and how their life experiences have shaped them as School's student, researcher or alumnus.
Dr Christopher Huggins is an alumnus of City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) who has completed a BSc (Hons), MRes and PhD and currently works as a Database and Research Officer in the Development and Alumni Relations team.
Dr Muhammad Akhter is an alumnus of City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) who graduated from Medicine in 2006.
Umena Bibi is a final year Medicine student at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
Tamsin Brown is a City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) alumna who graduated from Medicine in 1997.
Sarah Lasoye is a City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) alumna who graduated from Biomedical Science in 2018.
Dr Florencia Cavodeassi is a Senior Lecturer in Developmental Biology at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
Dr Joanne Barton is an alumna of City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting), who graduated from Medicine in 2015.
Dr Wai Liu is a Senior Research Fellow at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
Dr Laura Nellums is an Honorary Lecturer in Global Health at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/public-engagement:
We are committed to Public Engagement in all its forms, from science communication through our successful Spotlight on Science events, to working in partnership with patients in our education and research and in collaborating on unique projects with our local community, such as our Inside Science programme with HMP Wandsworth.
Explore these pages and learn more about our public engagement work, find out about our events and discover how to get involved in our research.
Discover what public and civic engagement means to to the School of Health & Medical Sciences by reading some of our public engagement stories from staff and students.
Join our evening events and explore key areas of our health research.
Attendees will gain insights from our scientists and healthcare professionals on the latest advancements across various topics.
The School of Health & Medical Sciences' Public Engagement Network is open to all staff and students who have an interest in public and civic engagement.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/history:
We have a long, illustrious history of training doctors, dating back more than 250 years.
Among our alumni we can count some of the founders of medicine.
We are well known for our innovative approach to developing education and our graduates are prepared for the rigours and rewards of a challenging and changing profession.
St George's Hospital opens in Lanesborough House at Hyde Park Corner.
The new hospital is arranged on three floors and accommodates 30 patients in two wards, one for men and one for women.
The hospital grows to 15 wards and over 250 patients.
An etching of the front of St George's Hospital at Hyde Park Corner, Central London, by Toms, c.1740
From the early days, the physicians and surgeons are permitted by the laws of the hospital to have a limited number of pupils.
A formal register of pupils is maintained from 1752.
The earliest recorded course of lectures at the hospital is that delivered by Sir Everard Home some time before 1803.
Prior to this, there were no lectures and little regular teaching at all in the hospital other than what the students could pick up from the physicians and surgeons on their way round the wards.
The eminent anatomist and surgeon John Hunter begins to undertake courses of study at St George's.
Hunter is often referred to as the Father of Modern Surgery and is credited with transforming surgery into a sound medical practice based on a detailed understanding of human anatomy.
Edward Jenner (student from 1770 to 1774) expands on the discoveries from 1774 of Benjamin Jesty, a Dorset dairy farmer who made a breakthrough when testing his hypothesis that infection with cowpox, could protect a person from smallpox.
In May 1796, Jenner successfully performs his first vaccination against smallpox, leading to the eventual complete eradication of the disease in 1980.
The hide of Blossom, the cow used in Jenner's smallpox experiment, was presented to St George's Medical School by Jenner's son in 1857, and has remained in the university's possession ever since.
With the Lanesborough House building falling into disrepair, a competition is held to design a new 350-bed hospital building.
This is won by William Wilkins, an English architect whose most famous work is the National Gallery.
Building begins on new premises in 1827 and is completed in 1834.
The old Lanesborough House is demolished as the new building is constructed.
Surgeon Benjamin Brodie purchases a house on Kinnerton Street, which he then leases back to St George's for use as an anatomy theatre, a lecture room and a museum.
Although pupils were trained at the hospital from its foundation, the medical school is not formally established until 1834 when it opens at the premises on Kinnerton Street.
The official opening ceremony for the medical school is held in 1835 in the Anatomy Theatre on the premises, and features the dissection of an ancient Egyptian mummy.
Prospectus for a course of lecturers on anatomy at the St George's Hospital Medical School at Kinnerton Street for 1837-1838, St George's Archives & Special Collections.
The medical school becomes a constituent college of the University of London soon after the latter's establishment in 1836.
Benjamin Brodie is appointed as the first President of the Royal College of Surgeons.
Brodie would also go on to be appointed the first President of the General Medical Council in 1958.
Gray's Anatomy, the product of the collaboration between Henry Gray, perpetual student at St George's Medical School, and Henry Vandyke Carter, demonstrator in anatomy at the school, is published.
Photograph of the dissecting room at St George's Hospital, with students and lecturers, including Henry Gray, 1860.
In 1868, the Medical School at Kinnerton Street is moved to buildings at the south-west corner of the hospital site in Hyde Park itself, with the main entrance in Knightsbridge and the back entrance on Grosvenor Crescent Mews.
The hospital and medical school have shared a site ever since.
Plan for the ground floor of the new St George's Hospital Medical School at Hyde Park Corner, c.1868.
Patrick Manson is appointed lecturer in Tropical Medicine and gives the first ever series of lectures on tropical diseases at St George's.
Manson went on to found the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in 1899.
Edward Wilson qualifies at St George's Hospital Medical School.
On qualification he is asked to join Captain Scott's first Antarctic Expedition, leaving England in 1901 as junior surgeon and zoologist.
In 1910 he joins the ill-fated expedition led by Scott to the South Pole and perishes with other members of the party on their return journey.
In response to wartime staff shortages, St George's admits its first four female medical students.
Helen Inglby, one of the four women accepted alongside Ethelberta Claremont, Marian M.
Bostock and Elizabeth O'Flynn, goes on to become Pathologist of the Albert Einstein Medical Centre in Philadelphia in 1945.
Photograph of the St George's Hospital residential house staff, with two of the Medical School's first female students, 1917.
During the war years St George's becomes a unit of the Emergency Hospital Service, providing 200 beds for war casualties and 65 beds for the civilian sick.
Just before the outbreak of the war, it had been decided that St George's should be rebuilt on its Hyde Park Corner site.
This plan is abandoned by the commencement of the war and discussions take place which pave the way for St George's to be rebuilt and transferred out of the city centre.
Muriel Powell, who was trained at St George's Hospital, returns to take up the position of matron.
Powell held this position for 22 years before going on to become Chief Nursing Officer for the Scottish Home and Health Department.
The NHS comes into being on 5 July 1948 to provide healthcare for all citizens, based on need, not the ability to pay.
The NHS is funded by the taxpayer and managed by the Department of Health, which sets overall policy on health issues.
With the introduction of the NHS, the hospital becomes part of the St George's Hospital Teaching Group of the South West Metropolitan Regional Hospital Board.
Soon after, the Board of Governors persuades the Minister of Health, Aneurin Bevan, that the new Hospital should be built on the Grove Fever Hospital and Fountain Hospital sites in Tooting.
Aubrey Leatham is appointed as St George's first consulting cardiologist.
Leatham is best known for designing a new and improved version of the stethoscope, and for inventing the world's first endocardial cardiac pacemaker.
The first indwelling pacemaker operation is carried out at St George's Hospital.
Building starts on the new St George's site at Tooting, South West London.
The first phase of the new St George's Hospital Medical School opens in Tooting with 80 students.
Pioneer of fertility treatment Patrick Steptoe, (alumnus, MBBS 1939), is responsible, alongside biologist and physiologist Robert Edwards, for developing in vitro fertilisation (IVF), leading to the birth of the first test-tube baby in 1978.
St George's at Hyde Park closes its doors for the final time and HM Queen Elizabeth II formally opens the new St George's Hospital and Medical School at Tooting on 6 November 1980.
The Queen tours parts of the Hospital and the Medical School, viewing some of the school's most important historical treasures- among them, the statue, couch and chair associated with the famous surgeon, John Hunter, and the hide from Edward Jenner's cow known as Blossom.
The Faculty of Health and Social Care Sciences, a joint collaboration between St George's, University of London and Kingston University is established, offering health and social care education in nursing, midwifery education and radiography.
St George's Medical School is the first UK institution to launch the MBBS Graduate Entry Programme, a four year fast-track medical degree course open to graduates in any discipline.
The Widening Participation Unit is launched with the purpose of promoting fair access to university for people from under represented areas of society.
It has since won 15 awards, including The Guardian's Public Service Award for Innovation and Progress in Diversity and Equality and the Times Higher Education Award for Widening Participation Initiative of the Year.
On St George's Day, 2005, the School formally changes its name to 'St George's, University of London'
50 years after the first pacemaker operation was carried out at St George's Hospital, the 50,000th operation is also successfully performed at the hospital.
The South West London Academic, Health and Social Care Network (AHSN) is launched in October 2009, a new membership network of organisations in South West London comprising of Croydon, Kingston, Merton, Richmond, Sutton and Wandsworth – with Kingston University and St George's, University of London.
The network pools members' expertise and experience to improve patient care and innovation.
The first cohort of medical students enrols on the St George's Programme at the University of Nicosia, Cyprus, the first medical degree to be taught in Cyprus.
St George's appoints its first female Principal, Professor Jenny Higham.
A consultant gynaecologist who has held several leadership roles in academia, Professor Higham has research interests in reproductive medicine and medical education.
She is also Chair of the Medical Schools Council.
Our on-site museum houses a collection of over 2,000 pathological specimens.
Our archives hold the institutional records of the organisation, illustrating the history of medicine and medical education.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/inaugural-lecture-series:
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) newly arrived or promoted professors are invited to give an inaugural lecture to mark this milestone in their academic careers.
Professors use the opportunity to introduce themselves, update colleagues on current and future research plans, and share their research with wider audiences.
It is also a chance to celebrate the support from friends and family, and from colleagues, mentors, and collaborators past and present.
City St George's staff and students are welcome to attend these lectures which are taking place on site, as well as being streamed online.
Find out more about each of the lectures by clicking on each item below.
We will provide details of each upcoming lecture as they become available.
See details and watch a recording of previous lectures by clicking each item below.
Professor Gordon and Ostergaard's inaugural lecture "An accidental journey into lymphatic anomalies" took place on 2 June 2025.
Professor Hainsworth's inaugural lecture "This Heavy Brain: Fuelling a 1.4 Kg Supercomputer" took place on 12 May 2025.
Professor Bielicki's inaugural lecture "Of drugs, bugs and sprogs - journeys in antibiotic research" took place on 17 March 2025.
17 March 2025
Professor Alex Trompeter's inaugural lecture 'Challenging Yourself, Challenging Dogma, and Managing the Unexpected' took place on Monday 10 February 2025.
10 February 2025
Professor Amarnath Bhide's inaugural lecture: "Who do I think I am?" took place on 20 January 2025.
20 January 2025
Professor Tihana Bicanic's inaugural lecture, 'The trials and tribulations of a budding mycologist’, took place on 15 April 2024.
15 April 2024
Professor Leighton Seal's inaugural lecture ‘An Endocrinologist’s Journey through Gender Medicine’, took place on 8 July 2024.
08 July 2024
Professor Mickey B C Koh's inaugural lecture, 'Stem Cells: The Good, the Bad and sometimes the Ugly’, took place on Monday 11 March 2024.
11 March 2024
Professor Ibison's inaugural lecture 'Primary Care and Medical Education: Perfect Partners' took place on 15/01/24.
15 January 2024
Professor Daniel Forton will deliver his inaugural lecture "How to cure disease (lessons learned trying)" on Monday 18 September 2023.
18 September 2023
Professor Philip Sedgwick's inaugural lecture, "Teaching, Learning, and Research: A Journey through Statistics" will take place on Monday 15 May 2023.
15 May 2023
Professor Robert Morgan's inaugural lecture, "Interventional Radiology: Past, Present and Future – A Journey " took place on Monday 20 February 2023.
20 February 2023
Professor Deborah Harding's inaugural lecture, "The Permeable Practitioner: Navigating uncertainty in professional practice" took place on Monday 20 March 2023.
20 March 2023
Professor Charlotte Clark's inaugural lecture, "Twenty years of being noisy" took place on Monday 21 November 2022.
21 November 2022
Professor Caroline Hing's inaugural lecture, "Why is failure essential for success?" took place on Monday 7 November 2022.
07 November 2022
Professor Jonathan Round's inaugural lecture, "How to make a Doctor" took place on Monday 10 October 2022.
10 October 2022
Catch up on Professor Richard Pollok's inaugural lecture which took place on Monday 4 April 2022.
04 April 2022
Catch up on Professor Rajko Reljic's inaugural lecture which took place on 21 March 2022.
21 March 2022
Catch up on Professor Kirsty Le Doare's inaugural lecture, which took place on Monday 31 January 2022.
31 January 2022
Professor Rachel Allen's inaugural lecture took place on Monday 29 November.
29 November 2021
Professor Debasish Banerjee's inaugural lecture took place on Monday 25 October.
25 October 2021

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/who-we-are/history/pathology-museum/home.aspx:
Our on-site Pathology Museum holds a collection of over 2,000 pathological preparations, including a number of original preparations donated by Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie in 1843.
This space is used for small group tutorials by students across all of our courses as an educational tool to help them understand more about human diseases.
Active learning, where students get the opportunity to learn through experience and reflection, is a valuable learning method and one that we feel makes City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) a unique place to study.
The Pathology Museum is open to City St George's students for bookable drop-in sessions throughout the year.
Click here to book.
Book a free ticket at one of our upcoming museum tours for members of the public
Creating a new Museum in the heart of Tooting: highlights from a community-led project exploring the heritage and stories of deadly diseases of the past from the Museum & Archives.
View some of the museum's key specimens here.
Please note that this page contains images of human tissue.
Access further information about the Pathology Museum on Canvas (students and staff only - use your sgul details to access).
Applications for this new opportunity are now open for students studying at City St George's, click here to find out more and apply (staff and  students only).
The Museum contains human tissues and organs and is regulated by the Human Tissue Authority (HTA) .
We are not currently open to the public but hold a licence to use the collection for education and training relating to human health.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/strategic-vision-2030:
Our mission is to improve health for everyone through inspiring education and research.
The City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) Strategic Vision 2030 captures what is important to our community at the School and sets out our goals and ambitions.
Values define what makes the School of Health & Medical Sciences a distinctive community, guiding our behaviours and shaping our culture.
We develop students and deliver research to tackle important healthcare issues and make a difference in the world.
We have a responsibility to communities beyond the University and have identified three broader commitments against which we will strive to deliver.
We believe that being more inclusive, supporting the resilience of our community and investing in growth will help us to achieve our vision.
To read our Strategic Vision 2030, you can download it here as a PDF.
Read our sub-strategies, supporting the operationalisation of the Strategic Vision 2030.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/strategic-vision-2030/our-values:
Following consultation with our community, our values have evolved.
Our previous values of Commitment , Openness , Respect and Engagement still hold true.
They are reflected strongly in the values that we are choosing to focus on next.
In reviewing our values, our community shared that they wanted to express a greater sense of ambition and energy, to express the dynamism that we strive for.
We also identified equity as a powerful force at the School of Health & Medical Sciences, both in our mission and our culture.
We believe that our new values will keep us striving to deliver our mission and demonstrate how we aspire to CARE for ourselves and others.
C – Collaboration : we work as a community and engage external partners to deliver our mission
A – Ambition : we strive to achieve the best for ourselves and others, responding dynamically to new challenges
R - Respect : we are open-minded, listening to others and valuing different perspectives
E – Equity : we are inclusive, tackling inequity in all its forms

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/strategic-vision-2030/our-core-delivery:
We will achieve our mission through our work in three core areas: research, education and professional services.
We will pursue a culture of research excellence based around collaboration, which rewards innovation and promotes equal opportunities.
We will increase our research volume and income by 50% (compared to 2022).
We will provide an outstanding environment in which to undertake research with integrated research support services and specialist facilities.
We will develop our knowledge exchange activities to ensure that our research and knowledge has the greatest possible impact.
We will shape an enriching academic experience centred in research, practice and professionalism that equips graduates to have a positive impact in the world.
We will create an outstanding environment for student learning and development within a supportive community.
We will expand our Education portfolio, diversify our offer and increase our international reach.
We will embed a culture of customer-orientated operational excellence in all that we do.
We will enable our students and staff to thrive in a high-quality physical and virtual environment.
The School of Helath & Medical Sciences will be a rewarding place to develop a career.
We will support growth in education and research.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/strategic-vision-2030/our-wider-commitments:
Alongside our core delivery areas, we have identified three priorities through which we will increase our impact as a University:
We are a compact University, with a global reputation and network.
We want to continue to use our research and expertise to drive global impact in the improvement of health.
we will be leveraging our impact by increasing our presence in national and international health fora.
we will be an important ‘go to’ voice in the UK for expertise in health research and education.
we will increase our role in advocating for change to support the development of future healthcare professionals.
we will have equipped our staff and academics to engage at this level.
Civic engagement is central to our mission as a University.
We want our local community to be proud of us, as their local University, and we want to have an impact on the lives of people who live and work in London.
we will provide positive economic, employment and study opportunities for our local area and be recognised as a trusted source of knowledge.
we will be known for the impact of our research and the difference our community make to the lives of others.
we will be a valued partner for local organisations, with strong connections to businesses and schools in London.
we will be visible and accessible to people living and working across London, working together to drive societal change.
The climate crisis we are facing has wide-reaching implications for health for everyone.
With our specialist focus, we should lead the agenda on health and climate.
We will work in collaboration with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, with whom we share our site, to achieve our ambitions.
we will have made substantial progress towards the decarbonisation of our estate.
we will be on target to reduce scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions.
we will have embedded sustainable practice across our curricula.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/strategic-vision-2030/enabling-themes:
To support our core deliverables and wider commitments, we have four enabling themes for which we hold ambitious goals:
In order to develop the future workforce for our healthcare systems, we will strive to develop rounded professionals who are able to both excel in their careers and maintain a positive work-life balance.
wellbeing will continue to be central to who we are and how we operate.
we will have invested in the staff and infrastructure (physical and systems) needed to give students the necessary support and space to thrive in their education.
we will have invested in our staff, so we are resourced to deliver requirements across the University.
We want to be a place which develops ideas, people and knowledge that serve a diverse world.
we will have further developed our understanding of equality, diversity and inclusion issues, taking a proactive and targeted approach to remove barriers faced by members of our community.
This includes, but is not limited to, continuing to promote race, disability, gender and LGBTQ+ equality.
we will have made education, research and our campus highly accessible, ensuring the support we offer to students and staff responds to their diverse needs.
we will be recognised for our inclusive leadership approach.
our curricula will develop students with the knowledge and attributes to serve a diverse world.
As a compact University in a unique location, we will continue to be creative and ambitious and actively pursue opportunities to grow in the coming decade.
we will increase Education income through portfolio expansion, streamlining and efficiencies, increasing student numbers (FTE) by at least 20% (from 2022).
we will have increased our research and enterprise income by 50%.
we will have developed strategic partnerships that will extend our impact.
we will influence policies that support a sustainable higher education sector.
the strength of our brand identity will attract more people to join us and support our work.
we will have embedded the policies, practices and culture required to support fully integrated working within and between our Research and Education functions.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/strategic-vision-2030/sub-strategies:
Please find below copies of our sub-strategies that support the operationalisation of our Strategic Vision 2023.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-and-inclusion-edi:
At City St George’s, University of London, we take pride in the diversity that exists in both our students and staff.
These webpages contain information on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) for staff, including what support and training is available and what policies apply to people who work for us.
Find out about information on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) at St George's including specific information and support for staff and students.
Find out about our responsibilities and commitments as an provider of higher education and as an employer.
Information, guidance and support in relation to bullying, harassment and discrimination
Find our about how we aim to protect staff and students of all backgrounds from intimidation, harassment and violent behavior as well as ensuring all freedom of speech remains lawful.
St George's has adopted an Anti Racism Statement of Commitment
We have collaboratively created a glossary of terms commonly used in the context of equality, diversity and inclusion to provide guidance and support learning across our community.
Find out about our various staff equality networks and how you can get involved!
We provide a range of EDI resources to support staff and students in their own learning and awareness raising of different identities and experiences

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-and-inclusion-edi/public-sector-equality-duty:
We aim to celebrate and harness this diversity so that everyone can fulfil their true potential.
We recognise our legal obligations under the Equality Act 2010 and Public Sector Equality duty and work to ensure our staff and students are treated fairly, with dignity and respect.
Section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 is known as the Public Sector Equality Duty.
All public sector organisations have a statutory obligation to pay ‘due regard’ in all of their policies, practices and procedures.
eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other conduct prohibited by the act
We must pay due regard to the Public Sector Equality Duty (PSED) by:
removing or minimising disadvantages suffered by people due to their protected characteristics
taking steps to meet the needs of people from protected groups where these are different from the needs of other people
encouraging people from protected groups to participate in public life or in other activities where their participation is disproportionately low.
There are nine protected characteristics that are covered in the Equality Act:
age
disability
gender reassignment
marriage and civil partnership
pregnancy and maternity
race
religion or belief
sex
sexual orientation.
The following is a list of prohibited conduct under the Equality Act 2010.
Our Dignity at Work and our Dignity at Study policies aim to ensure we foster a culture of inclusion and belonging at City St George’s, in which all individuals are treated with dignity and respect.
The individual is treated less favourably than a person who does not share the same protected characteristic.
A rule or policy that disproportionately affects an individual or group from a protected characteristic.
When someone is treated unfavourably on the basis of another person's protected characteristic with whom they are associated e.g.
a child or a partner.
When someone is treated unfavourably because others believe or percieve they have a protected characteristic, even if in reality they don't have it.
Unwanted conduct related to a relevant protected characteristic, which has the purpose or effect of violating an individual's dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for that individual.
St George’s, University of London regularly analyses both staff and student data in order to detect any patterns or trends that may be disadvantaging certain protected characteristic groups.
These data are discussed at various committees and meetings so that actions can be developed to mitigate any disadvantage.
We also aim to encourage staff participation from different protected characteristic groups and hold many events and focus groups to hear colleagues’ experiences that can contribute to the development of new processes and policy at the university.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-and-inclusion-edi/about-edi-at-st-georges:
We are committed to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) and continuously work towards ensuring that it is placed at the heart of everything that we do.
This statement applies to all who work, study or volunteer with City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences.
Explore these pages to find out more about EDI at the School.
The School of Health & Medical Sciences is committed to achieving race equality for all of our staff and students.
Find out how we support members of staff who have a disability.
See what we're doing to eliminate gender imbalance in certain job roles and degree programmes, and investigating factors that interact with gender in determining recruitment and progression.
Our School is committed to supporting our staff who are expectant parents, parents or carers.
We’re proud of our diverse staff and student body and we're committed to creating a positive working and learning environment where all people are treated with dignity and respect.
We are committed to making our workplace inclusive and are continually working to progress LGBT+ equality within City St George's..
Find out what equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) events are taking place across City St George's - Tooting campus..
Equality analysis should be undertaken whenever a new process, procedure or working practice is put in place or decisions are made.
This is to ensure these do not have a negative or adverse effect on individuals.
Find equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) information for staff, including where to get help and support if you need it.
Find equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) information for students, including where to get help and support if you need it.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-and-inclusion-edi/bullying-and-harassment:
City St George's, University of London is committed to providing an environment of the highest quality for all of our students and staff.
Find out what support and reporting options are available to you as a staff member or student if you experience bullying or harassment.
Find out what support and reporting options are available to you as a staff member at City St George's if you experience bullying or harassment.
Find out what support and reporting options are available to you as a student at City St George's if you experience bullying or harassment.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-and-inclusion-edi/good-campus-relations:
Values define what makes City St George’s a distinctive community, guiding our behaviours and shaping our culture.
Click on each of the values below to find out more.
City St George's, University of London will not comment on domestic or international matters, or adopt a position, outside the scope of its formally established mission.
This applies to both internal and external communication, and to any issue with a political or otherwise contested dimension.
As a matter of principle and practice we will only comment where such an issue directly pertains to the delivery of our charitable objects.
Where an event impacts our staff, students, and as appropriate alumni, we will point to support or assistance, and indicate our care for them (and their families).
We have established routes for communication on business continuity, staff and student welfare.
The relevant protocols are subject to regular review.
It is important to understand that our decision not to comment does not reflect any individual positions on these issues, nor necessarily any lack of awareness of the issues and their import.
As a university, we are a UK charitable institution regulated by the Office for Students (OfS) and as such we support democracy and the rule of law (thus we condemn violence and actions outside the law).
Setting aside the legal constraints on what we can properly do, it has become clear that choosing where we express our ‘concern’ (or similar sentiments), and where we do not, has become itself a matter of political contest.
We cannot engage in it.
It is recognised that adhering to this policy is challenging, morally and practically, and will entail collective restraint.
This institutional position does not impinge on, or impede, the exercise of freedom of speech or academic freedom by individuals (or groups of individuals) within the institution.
President
City St George’s, University of London
Listening, treating each other fairly and honestly.
Participating in life at City St George’s and, through education and research, empowering our people to contribute to, influence and improve society and communities.
We aim to protect staff and students of all backgrounds from intimidation, harassment and violent behaviour and have developed a Promoting Good Campus Relations policy to ensure all freedom of speech at City St George’s remains lawful.
We also have a Good Campus Relations Group which aims to ensure all students, staff and visitors at our University experience a postive, safe and stimulating environment.
The group takes a consultative approach with staff and students to consider and address situations and proposals that may have a bearing on good campus relations and works together to foster a positive and productive environment.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-education-centres:
CIDE works collaboratively with all colleagues and students in the institution to advance teaching and learning, and to support educational knowledge, skills and scholarship.
City St George's uses technology-enhanced learning tools and educational approaches to support and strengthen the learning experiences offered to students.
The Graduate School coordinates the university’s postgraduate and professional education provision.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-education-centres/centre-for-technology-in-education:
Technology-enhanced learning at City St George's enhances many aspects of the curriculum across all our courses.
Find out more about the centre and what we do.
Find guidance, resources and events designed to support our blended teaching, learning and assessment approach.
The Professional Education Centre is responsible for the management and development of all CPD and standalone modules, working in close collaboration with both the Course Leads and CTiE team members.
Access the full range of teaching and learning resources available to staff and students at City St George's Tooting campus.
We offer training for academic staff, administrators and student year representatives on various aspects of using technology at City St George's.
Access guidance on recording videos for online teaching/learning including patient consent.
We contribute to and develop regular research articles, as well as conference proceedings and presentations.
The LTS team provides operational support and training to staff and students regarding the use of several technologies used at City St George's.
The eLearning Unit works to support the student experience.
We develop resources, do research, and participate in international collaborations and projects.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-education-centres/the-graduate-school:
Read about how the Graduate School supports postgraduate degrees, life-long learning and continuing professional development courses.
The centre supports City St George's strategic aim to deliver life-long learning by coordinating a portfolio of courses.
Learn about our world leading research degrees.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-education-centres/centre-for-innovation-and-development-in-education:
Find out who's in the CIDE team, what we do and how to contact us.
Find out about City St George's approach to teaching and learning and the guidance and resources available to support educators.
Learn more about our events and initiatives aimed at promoting inclusivity and fostering professional development for students and staff.
Learn about our range of professional development and recognition opportunities for teaching and education staff.
The Inclusive Education Framework aims to bring together all the valuable work being undertaken in the university and our practice partners to support our students before, during and after their time at City St George's.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-commercial-services:
Our halls of residence are the perfect place to stay for anybody seeking more competitive rates than those available in central London.
Our campus is a popular space for filming and photographic shoots, and is available all year round.
We have a number of retail and tenancy opportunities available on our campus, with access to close to 4,000 staff and students.
We have a range of lecture theatres, conference spaces, boardrooms and smaller meeting venues available to hire.
Read about our leading research facilities, including image resourcing and clinical and biological research.
Find out more about our consultancy service and building links with our researchers.
See how City St George's researchers collaborate with other companies and institutions.
Here you'll find information about City St George's patented intellectual property available for licensing.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-commercial-services/accommodation:
Our halls of residence, Horton Halls, are the perfect place to stay for any organisation or tourist seeking more competitive rates than those available in central London.
The halls are spread across two buildings, and can house 486 guests in self-catered single bedrooms.
Each room has en-suite facilities.
Building 1 has five blocks of apartments that share  a central courtyard.
Each apartment shares a well-equipped kitchen and dining area.
Building 2 incorporates higher specification rooms with more space, wider beds, larger en-suite bathrooms, softer carpets, and redesigned desk spaces.
It also includes a 300 square metre common room, which can be used as a venue for meetings, presentations, or other activities.
Each block in Building 1 features a small common rooms with comfortable chairs and a large plasma-screen television.
In Building 2 there is one large common room for all to share.
There are on-site laundry facilities, internet access in all units, and a 24-hour security-manned reception, as well as an adjacent convenience shop.
Local supermarkets, shops and amenities in Tooting are a short walk away from Horton Halls.
The halls are a 10-minute walk from Earlsfield and Haydons Road train stations, with links to Waterloo, Blackfriars, Wimbledon and Clapham Junction – a main terminus serving all of London, Gatwick, Heathrow and the South Coast.
It is a 15 minute walk to Tooting Broadway London Underground Station (Northern line).
The buildings are within close proximity to Earls Court Exhibition Centre and the All England Lawn Tennis Club, Wimbledon.
View a map of the Horton Halls area (PDF)
We are able to accommodate large groups –in the past we have housed groups of over 300 security professionals working at Hyde Park's summer music festivals, for several weeks at a time.
Guest feedback has included the following quotes:
“The friendliness and helpful nature of the staff was greatly admired.”
“Thank you very much for your hospitality.
I enjoyed my stay and had a friendly experience with your staff.”
“Great facilities and all the staff I met were nice and friendly.”
“I felt secure and relaxed.
It was more like a holiday apartment.”
“Very modern, with lifts to the rooms, internet access, and generally well equipped.”
Horton Halls of Residence are available for bookings during the out of term summer period – early July to early September.To discuss your accommodation needs, pricing and availability, please contact the Commercial Services team.
Telephone: 020 8696 1133.
Email: Commercial Services Team

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-commercial-services/filming:
Our campus is a popular location for filming and photographic shoots.
We are able to offer a wide variety of different locations all on one site.
We can provide a range of locations for commercial filming, including:
Our locations are available all year round and we offer a very flexible service.
We are a working university but we are keen to accommodate requests by working around our daily teaching and research operations wherever possible.
Whatever your requirement, we encourage you to contact us to see how we can assist.
We have provided hospital-type settings, laboratories and university backdrops for commercial filming, including for drama productions, documentaries and advertisements.
TV shows filmed on campus include:
To enquire further about filming at City St George's (Tooting campus), please contact the Commercial Services team:
We also have a Facebook page with photo galleries of our locations.
Please note: The above contact details are for location filming enquiries only.
Requests for members of the City St George's academic community to present their professional point of view or research findings for mainstream TV, radio or print purposes should be directed to the Communications team.
For these enquiries, please contact the senior press officer on 020 8725 1139 or via email .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-commercial-services/retail-tenancies:
We have a number of retail and tenancy opportunities available on our campus.
City St George’s can offer longer-term tenancies on Tooting campus.
These include office space to accommodate small businesses.
This is a unique chance to share space with an established higher education institution.
Our potential retail spaces boast access to close to 4,000 staff and students.
To enquire further about retail tenancies at City St George's, please contact the Commercial Services Team:

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-commercial-services/conference-facilities:
City St George’s (Tooting campus) can accommodate up to 360 delegates for your event.
From our location in Tooting, we can offer more competitive rates than central London but remain quickly accessible from Zone 1.
Our spaces are equipped with the latest audio visual technology and are supported by an in-house team.
Our lecture theatres and teaching rooms have projection facilities and built-in PCs.
Wireless internet access is available throughout our campus.
Our facilities and services can be tailored to suit your requirements.
Please contact us for pricing and availability.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-commercial-services/research-facilities:
This facility is a core resource, offering light microscopy, electron microscopy and histology.
This facility provides staff and facilities to enable university and Trust researchers to offer and run high-quality clinical trials.
This facility is responsible for ensuring research involving animals is carried out with the best possible welfare standards.
Read about City St George's Human Tissue Act licences and how our human tissue activities are processed and recorded.
Learn how the Community Rehabilitation Research Network (CRRN) supports community-based health and social care professionals to understand how to bring their rehabilitation research ideas to fruition.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-commercial-services/consultancy:
Our mission is to promote excellence in teaching, clinical practice and research within medicine and health sciences.
Our researchers in the medical sciences are encouraged to contribute their extensive scientific knowledge to society by participating in consultancy.
If you’re from an external organisation, consultancy offers a great chance to build links with our researchers and provides solutions to technical matters.
Some of our most successful research collaborations have started from a consultancy.
We can recommend senior specialists to help with any of the following:
Examples of work our consultants have taken part in include:
City St George’s, University of London (formerly, St George's, University of London) is embedded within one of the busiest hospitals in the UK, St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Our research greatly benefits from this.
The hospital provides a huge patient catchment area and we have expert clinical staff for clinical trials activity.
Our areas of speciality are:
Learn about City St George's specialist research institutes .
To find out more, or to get support identifying a consultant with specific technical expertise, send us an email .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/joint-research-and-enterprise-services/enterprise-innovation/collaboration-opportunities.aspx:
St George’s, University of London is a specialist university exclusively dedicated to medical and health sciences education, training and research.
We share a clinical environment with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, a major London teaching hospital, offering exceptional opportunities for knowledge exchange and translational research.
The university has an international reputation for research and innovation, with strong links to other institutions and organisations.
We are constantly seeking to expand our university-industry collaborations to foster and excel our innovative research and enable impact on health.
At St George’s, our world-leading researchers in the medical sciences are encouraged to contribute their scientific knowledge to society through collaborations industry partners.
Our areas of research and expertise are wide-ranging, from cardiology to neurosciences to vaccinology.
Our areas of Academic and Research Expertise :
Access our academic expertise to support your R&D through our Consultancy programme
We work with businesses, charities and public sector organisation of all sizes.
Some of the ways that our expert researchers can help your business:
SME Innovation Vouchers - Up to £2,000 to initiate a new collaboration between your company and our researchers
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships - 12 - 36 month part-funded partnership established to support SMEs to innovate and grow by linking them with a research group and a graduate.
To discuss funding opportunities and collaborations with St George's please GET IN TOUCH
St George's, University of London has an impressive portfolio of IP available for licensing.
Tech publisher
For further information please contact the Enterprise & Innovation team
We maintain a list of collaboration opportunities from our industry contacts below.
If any are of interest to you please contact the enterprise team and we can provide some further information
https://www.lifearc.org/funding/philanthropic-fund/
This fund offers grants for rare disease treatments.
The assessment panel meets twice per year and prefers projects with strong scientific rationale and credible IP potential with route-to-patient in mind.
https://www.lifearc.org/funding/development-gap-fund-dgf/
This fund supports small-scale studies, building upon research undertaken in MRC Units and Institutes , to provide proof of concept for translational projects.
https://www.lifearc.org/funding/seed-fund-2/
This fund offers 3-4 investments per year of no more than £2 million into nascent or early-stage spin out companies which align with its strategic disease priorities.
Deadline: None specified
Funding: Up to £50k per project
The brand new i4i FAST (Funding At the Speed of Translation) funding scheme is inviting innovators to submit applications that will answer a specific question, fund a single piece of activity or fill a specific evidence gap across all technology readiness levels.
This could provide pivotal support by allowing innovations to be de-risked, further explored to justify further research and investment or to fail fast if simply not viable.
Research themes can address any area of existing or emerging clinical unmet need.
This is the first round of i4i FAST Awards and will initially run as a pilot scheme.
The Awards provide between £15k to £50k of funding for projects that can last between 3 to 6 months.
FAST Awards are designed to have a rapid turnaround, and decisions to fund will be made within 6 to 8 weeks.
i4i FAST is a rolling call and there is no submission deadline.
Applications can be submitted from 13:00 on 04 April 2022.
The call can close at any time subject to budget and evaluation requirements.
More Information
Funding: Discretionary
The Global Innovation Fund is a non profit innovation fund headquartered in London with an office in Washington D.C.
that invests in the development, rigorous testing, and scaling of innovations targeted at improving the lives of the world's poorest people.
Through our grants and risk capital, we help breakthrough solutions to global development challenges from for profit firms, non profit organisations, researchers, and government agencies to maximise their impact and affect meaningful change.
Funding: Funding: £1,000,000
Nesta Impact Investments is a £17.6m fund investing in life changing innovations that help tackle the major challenges faced by older people, children and communities in the UK.
The purpose of KTPs is to unite Graduates, Academic Knowledge Bases (KBs) and businesses to inspire an innovative collaboration.
Not only is this a great way to create something inventive for all parties, but also an opportunity to garner a plethora of business and interpersonal skills and enable knowledge transfer.
For further information, please visit our webpage below:
https://www.sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/joint-research-and-enterprise-services/enterprise-innovation/knowledge-transfer-partnerships

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/joint-research-and-enterprise-services/enterprise-innovation/home.aspx:
The Enterprise and Innovation Office provides professional and experienced support for all commercialisation and innovation activity at City St George’s, University of London both to our academic and clinical researchers and to interested external parties.
Use the Innovation Map and browse the pages below to discover more, including details of the policies, funding and team of experts that can help you.
If you're intersted in working with us please get in touch by emailing enterprise@sgul.ac.uk .
Meet the Enterprise and Innovation Team!
Find out about the new Health Innovation Nexus initiative which aims to bring a number of new programmes and partnerships with the ultimate aim of engaging with our industrial partners.
Our facilities, expertise, licensing and investment opportunities
Learn more about consultancy agreements, licensing options and spin-outs.
Understand the typical IP arising from research and how to manage it throughout your career
Useful information for our Researchers and Collaborators
Join our events for networking, innovation, and collaboration, connecting academics, clinicians, SMEs, and industry partners with valuable opportunities.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services:
The Communications and Engagement directorate works collaboratively with colleagues across the University to raise the profile of City St George’s, help us to achieve our strategic vision and raise philanthropic income.
We provide a professional support service to the Institute for Medical and Biomedical Education staff and student community.
Here you'll find campus maps, access to cleaning and other site services, timetabling and room booking.
The Finance department works collaboratively with staff to manage the finances in the short and long term.
GLAS provides institutional governance, risk management, legal services, student conduct and compliance, Freedom of Information, and records management services.
We support staff with recruitment, onboarding, contracts, payroll changes, family schemes, equality and diversity and more.
Learn more about our Corporate Information, Digital and IT services, and our Library and Information Governance team.
We support academics and clinicians with research activities, and provide clinical research facilities.
The Marketing, Student Recruitment and Admissions directorate helps define and raise brand awareness of City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) among target audiences and to attract the best prospective students.
We work collaboratively with senior team and university professionals to strategically plan for the future.
We source goods and services to ensure efficient and effective use of university funds.
QPD provides effective and focused leadership in the management and enhancement of educational quality across the university.
Research Operations is instrumental in supporting researchers in their day-to-day work and helping support delivery of our strategic research aims.
The Registry team supports students with admissions, support, advice for international students, exams and more.
Policies, procedures, guidance and forms relating to health and safety for students, staff and visitors.
We aim to enable staff to develop professionally and personally in their roles.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/education-operations:
Working with Institute for Medical and Biomedical Allied Health Education (IMBAE), Education Strategy and Development Office and across the wider St George’s, University of London community, the Education Operations Team provide a professional support service to the IMBE, ESDO and Education Operations staff and student community.
We cover a range of activities, including technical services for our teaching laboratories, support for educational activities across St George’s, and finance and course administration.
Find contact details for our undergraduate courses.
Find contact details for our postgraduate taught courses.
Find contact details for our Medicine courses.
Find contact details for our technical services.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/estates-and-facilities:
Find out more about our teams and how we support staff and students.
Here you'll find out how to access and arrange groundkeeping activities.
The helpdesk records all service calls for the Estates and Facilities Department.
Maintenance is made up of reactive and planned maintenance.
Ensuring your safety when on campus.
How we keep things running smoothly onsite.
View our campus maps to teaching areas throughout the university and hospital.
The Facilities department provides a manned reception, located on the ground floor, Hunter Wing.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/communications-and-engagement:
Find out more about the Directorate.
Contact our press office if you have a media enquiry about City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences.
Learn more about George's Weekly, the weekly newsletter Tooting campus staff.
Access guidance on working with the media, and our brand and house style guidelines.
Explore our collection of resources carefully crafted by our Communications and Engagement team to support you.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/marketing-recruitment-and-admissions:
Find out more about the Marketing, Student Recruitment and Admissions directorate.
A hub of brand information and templates for your use.
Learn how to edit the St George's website and how we use social media.
Find about our digital services, facilities and advice.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/finance:
The Finance department provides a professional service to both external and internal clients.
Find out more about the team and read our FAQs.
Payroll is responsible for all pay and pension matters at St George’s.
We ensure that the university remains up to date and compliant with all pay and pension regulations and developments.
The Accounts Receivable section within the Finance department is solely responsible for the timely invoicing and collection of debts to St George’s.
Accounts Payable is responsible for processing all requests for payments received by St George’s, University of London.
Read about our key responsibilities.
Access our procedure documents, information on FRIS/Agresso, learn about Treasury, Financial and Management Accounts, Insurance and more.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/governance-legal-and-assurance-services:
We provide institutional governance, risk management, legal services, student conduct and compliance, Freedom of Information and records management services.
Information about our senior committee structure, including the current committee schedule, is posted here.
Committee servicing guidance and template documents are provided here.
They provide a house standard for the servicing of City St George’s boards, committees and groups and should be adopted by all such groups.
Legal services offers advice and guidance on legal compliance, corporate commercial, data and information, dispute resolution, employment and property.
Advice to students and staff about the operation of all City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus) student procedures.
Learn detailed information about what you need to do in managing information so that the University complies with the CMA regulations.
Learn how to make a Freedom of Information request, or read our responses to previous requests.
We support the management of records no matter what format they are maintained in, from creation through to either disposal or transfer to the Archives.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/human-resources:
Welcome to City St George's, University of London!
This page aims to give you an overview the information you will need during your first few months of joining.
This page provides guidance for managers on how to recruit, including the authorisation required and the necessary forms and templates to use.
This page provides links to the various types of leave available and the procedure for sickness absence management.
If you require any assistance please contact your HR business partner.
Learn more about payroll, changing contracts and accessing employee self-service.
We value and celebrate our diversity and strive to create a positive working and learning environment that is free from harassment and bullying.
Staff and student mental health and wellbeing is very important to us, and we have developed this page to give staff access to our mental health first aiders as well as resources, guidance, training and events.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services:
Information Services is a converged service, led by the Director of Information Services, providing support to the University information activities - click to see our organogram
Our modern health sciences library offers a wide range of books, e-books, academic journals and other resources to support learning, teaching, research and our NHS colleagues.
Here you'll find a full range of support pages and guidelines.
Corporate information services (CIS) is responsible for the delivery, development, maintenance and interfacing of all City St George's (Tooting campus) corporate services.
Learn more about information governance, management and security at City St George's (Tooting campus).
Find Regulations and Policies relating to the use of IT Systems, Network and Equipment
Medical Photography provides a complete production service for clinical purposes and works closely with St George's Hospital

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/library/home.aspx:
Visit this page for all you need to know about using the library.
Our modern health sciences library offers a wide range of books, e-books, academic journals, other resources and services to support learning, teaching, research and our NHS colleagues.
This guide includes information on accessibility in the Library, with a list of equipment and links to useful resources.
We offer access to a wide range of information resources to support your learning, teaching or research.
Find out about our bookable workshops, embedded curriculum-based training or 1-2-1 consultations.
We have created a series of LibGuides to give you some helpful tips on making the most of the library resources and developing your research skills.
Find the best library databases for your research.
Reserve a group room or a study pod for your study.
This short guide defines what referencing is, and how to get help in using reference management systems.
Tailored support for students, including subject guides, reference management and face-to-face services.
Get help with managing resource lists and reference management.
Guides and information for researchers, including using CRIS and SORA, finding and managing data and metrics.
Tailored resources and support for NHS staff, including CARES, BMJ Best Practice and using the library.
Lean how to access e-journals,e-books, databases and other online resources.
Our how-to videos will help you master library essentials.
Watch the videos to find out how to find books and e-journals, how to register for an OpenAthens account, and more.
In this video, one of our Liaison Librarians gives you a very brief overview of the Library services.
Our guide to using Hunter to search information resources.
Find out when the library is open, when it is staffed, and how to access it out of hours.
Library membership is available to all staff and students of St George’s.
Find out your eligibility and borrowing rights.
See how you can find us, or contact us by post, telephone or email.
Find out more about the library facilities and services and how to arrange an orientation tour.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/planning:
The Planning office works collaboratively with the senior team and other university professionals to strategically plan for the future.
There are three main national league tables and a number of world league tables.
The planning office annually reviews the ranking position of St George's within these tables.
The planning office analyses these grants annually.
Find out more about the current grants.
Here we share 10 fun and useful facts you probably didn't know about St George's.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/procurement-services:
The CPU strategically sources goods and services to ensure the most efficient and effective use of university funds, including research grants.
Preferred suppliers are vetted and appointed through a formal and compliant tendering process undertaken by St George’s.
Information and guidance for staff around buying goods and services.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/quality-and-partnerships-directorate:
The Quality and Partnerships Directorate (QPD) provides effective and focused leadership in the management and enhancement of educational quality across the university.
It also provides leadership for, and oversight of, all work in relation to academic partnerships, including collaborations with current partners and potential and developing partnerships arrangements.
The QPD has a particular responsibility for St George’s, University of London's quality assurance framework and for ensuring that St George’s approach is compliant with the regulatory requirements, including those set out by the Quality Assurance Agency and professional, statutory and regulatory bodies.
As part of its work, the QPD manages the Turing scheme at St George’s and serves as the designated contact for the purposes of the scheme.
The aim of the scheme is to provide students with financial support for international education and training opportunities, enabling them to benefit from overseas experience, boosting their employability and helping them to develop a wide range of skills.
It also encourages students to build relationships, share ideas and have enriching adventures.
QPD has an institution wide responsibility for operational excellence by working with the Chief Operating Officer on designing and delivering Operational Excellence Projects that are aligned to the needs of the organisation and delivering the operational plan.
QPD undertakes business process reviews and mapping, and develops and implements associated changes across the University that improve operational efficiency, organisation and management.
Incorporated into any change is a process to ensure service quality is monitored and enhanced.
Within the university, the QPD is a resource for all staff on matters of quality and partnerships and provides a range of support activities across the organisation.
Click the heading below to find details of the Quality and Partnerships Directorate team
Email: rallen@sgul.ac.uk .
Email: satkins@sgul.ac.uk .
Email: gdelahay@sgul.ac.uk
Vacant
We have a responsibility to ensure the standards and quality of the education that we provide to our students.
Our approach to assuring quality is detailed within the Quality Manual.
Operational Excellence (OpEx) is a philosophy, which is about increasing efficiency whilst simultaneously creating a better customer experience.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/registry:
Welcome to the St George’s Registry.
We provide a range of services to support you at St George’s.
Please come and see us at the Student Life Centre or find out more using the details provided below.
On 6 th January the Student Life Centre will move from the ground floor of Hunter Wing to Level 6, Hunter Wing .
They are open from 10am to 4pm, Monday to Friday (10am to 2pm during holiday periods).
Please refer to the Study section for information on how to apply to our courses.
Please find out more about the Student Regulations and Policies which form our terms and conditions for students:
Read the student policies and regulations that students must accept when they enrol at St George's.
The Student Services team look after the following services, follow the links for more information:
Guides and resources for St George's students, including health, finance, and student services.
We are thrilled that you have chosen to continue your education with us, and are looking forward to welcoming you at the start of term.
Our dedicated International Advising Team offers guidance and support on a wide range of issues to help make your time in the UK as enjoyable as possible.
Please visit this section for guidance on orientation, working during and after your studies and much more.
You can find visa and immigration support here:
Professional support and guidance on a wide range of issues related to visas and life in the UK for our international students.
The Exams Team run examinations for undergraduate degree programmes.
Please see the exams for more information which is relevant to all courses:
You will find general information about St George’s examinations on this page and contact details for the team.
The Student System team look after our student records system, certificates and transcripts.
Please see the Student Systems shop for details on how to request an additional certificate.
Information for Trust staff, university staff and students on the spaces available and how to book them.
How to book rooms and contact the Room Booking and Timetabling team
This page contains links to forms and guidance provided by the Registry at St George's, University of London to support various aspects of student administration.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/safety-health-and-environment:
Learn how St George's ensures that all who visit, work or study here do so in safety.
Information on the policies, procedures, guidance and forms in relation to accidents, incidents, fire and emergencies.​
Tools and resources relating to conducting risk assessment.
Learn more about how St George's meets workplace health, safety and welfare regulations.
Read the organisation's guidance and forms for health and safety training.
Guidance and forms related to managing hazardous, non-hazardous and WEEE waste.
Policies, procedures and guidance relating to wellbeing at St George's.
A complete list of our procedures, guidance and forms.
You can find all safety, health, environment and wellbeing forms on this page.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/staff-development:
We provide training and support for staff to develop their skills, knowledge and behaviours to achieve professionally.
Our annual programme of learning events for St George’s central staff development and training.
This training aims to help you gain an understanding of the laws, rules and policies that apply to your official and day-to-day duties.
We are committed to creating a motivated workforce.
Our Personal Development Review (PDR) process aims to give staff clarity and fulfilment in their roles.
We have a range of courses and programmes to provide you with professional development at every stage of your leadership and management career.
Staff surveys and pulse surveys aim to provide St George’s with regular insights into staff views about the university as a workplace.
Our coaching and mentoring offer enhances the skills, knowledge and performance of staff around specific skills and goals.
HR Excellence in Research award demonstrates our commitment to improving the working conditions and career development for research staff, through implementing the principles of the Concordat.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/governance:
Meet our leadership team, including our principal, deans and heads of professional services.
Learn more about our Council, charitable status and our committees.
Read about our policies regarding freedom of information, modern slavery, records management and anti-corruption.
Use this tool to search through all St George's policies.
Access our catalogue of annual reviews and financial statements.
Learn more about information governance, management and security at St George's.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/governance/governing-body:
St George’s, University of London and City, University of London merged on 1 August 2024.
We are now ‘City St George’s, University of London’.
The voluntary merger has enabled us to become one of the largest higher education destinations for London students, and a powerful multi-faculty institution with a distinctive focus on professional education and research at the frontier of practice.
Visit Council - City, University of London .
The Council for Dissolution is the current governing body for St George's, University of London.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/governance/compliance:
Read more about our commitment to improving our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
We support the management of records no matter what format they are maintained in.
This information describes how we discharge our obligations under the Bribery Act 2010 and Criminal Finances Act 2017.
Read our transparency returns for applications, offers, acceptances and registrations.
This committee reviews research being undertaken by St George’s staff or students, and research that is taking place on St George’s property.
These statements outline the approach which embeds practices that support research integrity and ethical behaviour across St George's.
The Trade Union Regulations 2017 require St George’s, University of London to publish information on an annual basis relating to the amount and cost of trade union facility time within the organisation.
Download the Audit Committee Annual Report.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/governance/annual-review-and-financial-statements:
Our financial summary gives an overview of our income and expenditure during 2023/24.
St George's income increased to £95.9m in 2023/24.
Operating expenditure increased to £97.8 million, giving an operating loss before the movement on our pension provision of £1.9 million.
The movement on our pension provision was a decrease of £19.9 million which created a surplus of £18 million.
An unrealised loss on investments and disposal of fixed assets of £0.1 million gives an overall surplus of £17.9m.
More detail can be found in our annual report and financial statements 2023/24 (PDF).
Previous years' reports can be found below.
See further details in the images presented in the gallery below.
We have been ranked 1st for ‘Graduate Prospects - on track’ and 3rd for ‘Graduate Prospects - outcomes’ by the Complete University Guide.
St George's was awarded £5.8m in capital funding for our education transformation project.
Researchers at St George's led the call for people with long Covid to join the LISTEN trial, the first support trial of its kind.
We have committed to Disability Confident, a government scheme that helps employers recruit and retain people with disabilities and have fair and inclusive recruitment practices.
In June our first Annual Equality, Diversity and Inclusion talk, Q&A and reception took place featuring I.
Stephanie Boyce delivering her talk Why Diversity Matters.
St George’s alumnus, Ravi Ray, funded the first undergraduate Medicine scholarship for students at St George's.
Please see our previous annual reviews and financial statements, which have been published as separate documents until recent years.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/information-governance/home.aspx:
Find out what information governance means, read about information governance standards, and more.
Head of Information Governance - Geoff Gray MBE.
Data Protection Officer - Claire Morrissey.
The framework defines roles and responsibilities and provides assurance that appropriate safeguards are in place.
Read our information management and information security policies.
Guidance on Information Governance requirements and procedures within Health Research
Access courses, videos, guides and other resources about information governance.
Our frequently asked questions can assist you in understanding basic IG concepts.
Guidance in the handling, sharing, storage or disposal of personal identifiable information.
Information governance recent awareness updates
Are you Cyber Aware?
Find out how you can make your data safe?

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/working-at-st-georges:
We are home to a vibrant community of over 900 academic, research and professional services staff at our London based campus.
At St George's we pay personal attention to each member of staff by offering a variety of professional and personal development schemes relevant to each individual.
We greatly encourage collaborative work, mentoring and skill-sharing and believe that this has contributed to our strong reputation as a tight-knit community and friendly working environment.
Find out how you can join the St George's team, including what current vacancies we have available on the St George's job site, by clicking the button below.
Join the St George's team

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-location:
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences is based in the thriving multi-cultural hub of Tooting in South West London.
It has close transport links to Central London, Greater London and Surrey.
Our travel information will help you find your way here.
We'd always recommend leaving plenty of time to spare when you set off, as London road and rail networks get very busy and there is always a chance of delay.
The School of Health & Medical Sciences is in Tooting, south west London, and shares a site with St George's Hospital .
Our front entrance is wheelchair-accessible and we are about five minutes’ walk from Tooting Broadway Tube station.
Enter the university and St George’s Hospital site via Effort Street.
Head for the main hospital entrance in Grosvenor Wing next to Marks and Spencer.
Follow the corridor straight ahead, and at the crossroads continue straight ahead into Hunter Wing.
The main reception is by the glass doors at the end of the corridor ahead of you on your right.
Download:
a map of the hospital site (PDF)
our handy travel guide (PDF)
We have partnered with Access Able to provide comprehensive maps and information on accessibility across the university site.
You can access these maps here and you can also download the Access Able app .
The nearest Tube station is Tooting Broadway (Northern Line, Zone 3).
The tube journey takes about 22 minutes from London Bridge and 25 minutes from Waterloo.
The School is about five minutes’ walk from Tooting Broadway underground station.
Consult the Transport for London website for further details.
Several buses stop directly outside the School and the Hospital, and even more stop at Tooting Broadway underground station.
Download a map of bus routes from City St George's - Tooting campus (PDF)
Tooting mainline station is a 15 minute walk away.
The line runs from Wimbledon to Luton and Bedford, via King’s Cross.
Visit the Thameslink website for more information.
We have bicycle racks on campus and at the Halls of Residence.
Please check the Transport for London cycling website for London cycling maps and route planners.
The closest major roads are the A3 from the west, M23/A23 from the south and the A2 from the east.
Visit Google for a map of the local area .
The School of Health Medical Sciences is not located in the Congestion Charge zone.
The university does not have public car-parking space so, though there is a limited amount of pay-and-display parking in the area, we strongly advise using public transport.
The School of Health & Medical Sciences has been based in Tooting in south west London since our move from Hyde Park Corner in 1980.
Learn more about Tooting
Guidance on how to connect to our on-site WiFi.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/accessibility-hub:
Welcome to the Accessibility Hub.
This page is for both students and staff, and it is here to guide you to the various accessibility information across the university.
We warmly welcome and support students who are disabled or have a Specific Learning Difficulty (SpLD).
View the support available and register to access disability services.
View accessibility guides and photos of our campus to help you plan your route and navigate around St George's.
View the access guides on Access Able's website (opens in new window).
Find out what accessibility and neurodiversity resources are available in the Library.
Some accessible equipment is available for loan, such as noise-cancelling headphones and electronic reading pens.
You can tint your screen, read digital text out aloud, use speech-to-text and more.
Find it on AppsAnywhere.
Instructions on Canvas (Canvas login required, opens in new window).
Links to assistive software resources.
You can also find out about library equipment you can borrow, and how to access accessibility features built into Apple and Microsoft devices (Canvas login required, opens in new window).
Structure (use of headings and styles), colour and contrast, use of images, links, plain English, and table structure.
How to structure your Word and PowerPoint documents, apply alt text to images, and accessible tables.
Our branded PowerPoint templates and best practice on how to use them.
Guidance for web editors on writing accessibly for websites.
Advice for lecturers on how you can support students with a disability or a Specific Learning Difficulty, and information about reasonable adjustments.
A toolkit that offers guidance and resources for teaching, assessing, and providing feedback in an inclusive way.
Includes information about disability awareness, neurodiversity, and inclusive learning design.
We aim to create an environment where people are encouraged to participate fully.
Visit our disability inclusion section for information about our staff disability network, reasonable adjustments, and more.
We have joined the Sunflower Scheme!
The sunflower is a tool for you to voluntarily share that you have a hidden disability.
Wearing the sunflower lets others know you might need extra help, understanding, or more time.
This page provides details of our progress in making our websites and mobile applications compliant with the Public Sector Bodies.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/education-transformation-project:
At City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting), we are working hard to improve student facilities and equipment.
In 2022, we were successful in our bid for £5.8 million, awarded by the Office for Students (OfS) specifically to boost teaching facilities and equipment in higher education institutions.
The School was one of only 47 UK Universities and Colleges to be awarded the maximum amount of £5.8 million per provider.
This funding, alongside other investments including many made by the School itself, will be used to deliver an Education Transformation Project that will enhance our hands-on skills facilities, create new student study spaces and equip the campus for efficient digital learning and study.
We are really excited to significantly enhance teaching, learning and the campus experience for our students and staff.
Follow along here and look out for the #BuildStGeorges hashtag on social media – we'll be posting our progress as we go along.
We welcome your feedback, to get in touch, please have a look at our Get involved section .
The project will progress across a three-year period and include:
Refurbish, enlarge and enhance our facilities for hands-on laboratory and skills based learning.
Transform our campus to strengthen our flexible, digitally-enhanced learning offer.
We will create new group discussion rooms, a dedicated flexible learning space, a flexible teaching space for use in core hours as well as additional study space for out of hours, 7 days a week.
As part of the Office for Students Education Transformation Projects, we are upgrading  40 teaching rooms and digitally enhancing a 80 of our teaching spaces across campus.
News items about improvements to student facilities and equipment will be added to this section as and when they are available.
A new flexible computer room has opened in J1.9, which is located on the first floor of Jenner Wing along Corridor 1.
17 April 2023
Two recent developments in the library will enhance the student experience and facilitate your learning.
13 October 2023

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/news/noise-network-plus-the-1.8-million-initiative-to-engineer-a-quieter-future:
Published: 11 February 2025
A network of engineers, policymakers, industry stakeholders and social scientists, including City St George's, University of London, will take on one of the UK’s most overlooked environmental challenges: noise pollution.
From the constant hum of road traffic to the thousands of flights in and out of UK airports, noise awareness in our modern world often fades into the background – but it carries significant consequences for both human health and wildlife.
Over the next 10–15 years, Noise Network Plus will focus on promoting conscious design processes to create quieter products, buildings and transportation systems, with the aim of reducing noise pollution and building a healthier environment.
Professor Charlotte Clark from City St George's Population Health Research Institute is a key expert in the group who will work to tackle the problem, thanks to a £1.8m grant from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
"This is a rare and timely opportunity to form multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary teams to develop engineering solutions addressing the problem of noise effects on health.
We know that noise effects health, but we know little about how to mitigate the problem.
The missions developed in the Noise Network Plus have the potential to step up mitigation efforts that will translate into major, long-term public health gains.”
The initiative is led by the University of Surrey.
Professor Mark Plumbley, project lead and Professor of Signal Processing at the University of Surrey’s Centre for Vision, Speech and Signal Processing, said:
“Noise is a frequently neglected pollutant, but it has a big impact on health, society and the environment.
For example, road noise can lead to sleep disturbance and heart disease, costing £7-10 billion each year in England alone.
Once noise is out there, it is really hard to remove.
We need to re-think how we design noise from the start.”
Noise Network Plus is one of six research projects to receive a share of £10 million from the EPSRC.
Together they form part of its wider community engagement initiative to address ‘Tomorrow’s Engineering Research Challenges’, launched today (11th February), which focuses on tackling the most pressing issues facing the engineering sector.
A collaboration between the University of Surrey, City St George's, University of London, the University of Bath, and the University of Salford, Noise Network Plus aims to build unprecedented research capabilities to tackle the complex challenge of reducing noise and its impacts on people, the environment and the economy.
Bringing together diverse teams and stakeholders, the initiative will promote inclusive dialogue and co-design innovative solutions.
The launch of Noise Network Plus will take place on 18th March at Prince Philip House, London, the home of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
The event will bring together a cross-section of people from engineering and other disciplines including researchers, industry, professional institutions, policymakers, charities, and other stakeholders, to identify the challenges that need to be addressed, and plan how the Network can work to address these challenges.
Learn more about our population health research
Charlotte Clark
Featured Researcher
Related links

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/donate-today:
St George’s is a unique research and teaching environment.
Ever since we were established in 1752, we have been committed to developing compassionate and innovative healthcare professionals, making strides in healthcare practice through our integrated research programme.
Making a gift to St George’s will make a difference not only to our students, but also to the patients who will benefit from their care and expertise around the world.
Your priorities matter to us too, find out more below about how you can direct where you would like your gift to make an impact.
Help us to enable every student at St George’s to thrive.
Deliver transformative research and patient benefit
Provide flexible financial support where it is needed most

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/give-to-where-the-need-is-greatest:
Make a donation
Our Fund for St George's exists to offer flexible financial support where it is needed most.
Each year our donors entrust their money to the School through this fund to respond to the needs of our students, and this year we’ve needed this more than ever.
Recently, contributions to our Fund for St George's have enabled us to loan 25 new laptops to students who would otherwise struggle to access online resources, as well as funding over 100 Care Packages to be sent to students in isolation.
These Care Packages have made great strides towards helping students feel a part of the St George’s community and reminding them that we are thinking of them as they enter isolation.
"At a time where student anxiety and stress levels are high, these isolation packs have certainly brought a little bit of happiness.
Our little gifts have brought a spark of entertainment and with the Welfare Support signposting included in our boxes, it has made it really easy for students to reach out when they are feeling low during isolation."
Sarah Jones, Vice President for Education (Student's Union)
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) takes pride in being more than just a place to earn a degree.
We aim to attract students who relish the opportunity to broaden their horizons beyond the curriculum and have an impact on their community and the wider world.
One example of impact from our Fund for St George's is that it enables us to enhance the student experience by funding an annual Conference Fund to which students can apply.
"As a penultimate year medical student, having the ability to present a poster at the 2019 British Trauma Society Meeting in Nottingham benefited my personal and professional development tremendously.
Not only was I able to boost my confidence and presentation skills, I also had the pleasure of meeting like-minded medical students, surgeons, and physicians from across all of the UK.
Thank you to every donor who made it possible for me to attend my first ever poster presentation (hopefully the first of many)!"
Vincent Chang, Conference Fund recipient 2020
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) students have a strong tradition of combining their studies with sport.
Alongside the recognised physical and mental wellbeing benefits of taking part in sport, the School takes considerable pride in enabling students to fulfil their potential, both academically and outside the classroom.
Our Fund for St George's also supports the Alastair Hunter Sports Prize which exists to help meet some of the unique costs associated with competing in sport at an elite level.
"Because of the bursary I was awarded, I was able to stay in cheerleading.
Competitive cheerleading is an expensive sport with monthly participation fees, competition entry fees, the cost of uniforms and training equipment.
Because of this I had considered resigning from the sport.
The Alastair Hunter Sports Bursary has helped to reduce the cost of participation and has helped to facilitate my first season as a level 3 athlete."
Hannah Gyekye-Mensah, Alastair Hunter Sports Bursary recipient 2019-20
A gift to the Fund for St George's will ensure that we can continue to find ways to enhance the student experience and have the flexibility to spend donations where the need is greatest.
Your support will ensure we can respond quickly to new challenges and offer flexible financial support where it is needed most.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/support-our-students:
We have more students than ever who are keen to embark upon a career in healthcare by studying at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
We attract passionate, diverse, values-driven young people who want to make a difference in people’s lives.
We want to help all of them to make the most of their talents and thrive throughout their university experience.
A gift in support of our students will ensure that we are able to help every student to thrive, offering flexible financial support and providing safe spaces to talk for our students who are most in need.
We want all of our students to be able to access financial support when faced with unexpected or emergency financial burdens.
We want every student to access the emotional support they may need to make the most of their time at university.
We want to offer our students equal opportunities to thrive whatever their background, specialism or area of interest.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/students-facing-hardships:
Our Hardship Fund exists to ensure that financial need is not a barrier to learning at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
The rising costs of attending university in London, and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, has meant that more and more of our students are finding themselves with financial challenges caused by circumstances beyond their control.
Giving to this fund will help us to support students across the University who are facing financial difficulties, for whatever reason.
"I was incredibly stressed at the start of this year - trying to make ends meet in London is an expensive task, and my student loan and bursary didn’t cover much more than my rent.
I had to pick up extra shifts, which was really starting to impact my time spent studying and I was headed towards burnout.
Receiving support from the Hardship Fund felt like a huge burden was lifted from me.
It removed a huge and tangible financial pressure and allowed me to focus more on my studies.
Since receiving the grant, I have started to feel more confident in my abilities as a medical student, something I was struggling with before due to the considerable time I spent focusing on earning money.”
Third year medical student and recipient of the 2020-21 Hardship Fund
Your support will ensure that financial need is not a barrier to learning at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/mental-health-and-wellbeing:
Mental health issues are increasing among the UK’s student population.
The increasing financial pressures of studying at Higher Education, along with the demanding nature of studying medicine, healthcare and science subjects, make our students’ mental health and wellbeing top priorities for City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting)
We are committed to supporting students’ mental health, with a counselling service on site and pastoral care provided by tutors, as well as ongoing campaigns across the University to raise awareness of, and eliminate the stigma around, mental health issues.
In 2019, alumni donations to our Mental Health and Wellbeing Fund enabled the establishment of a new Students’ Union Education and Welfare Support Officer role.
This role continues to be partially funded by donations from our alumni community and has been vital as the needs of students have evolved during the Covid-19 pandemic:
"We have spoken to some students who are seeking guidance on establishing structure and routine while studying remotely.
Others, such as international students, have found themselves unable to travel home at a time when many students are moving out of student accommodation.
We have also been speaking to students who are most vulnerable at this time, who have found themselves in a disruptive or unstable environment as a result of the lockdown.
These are students who have felt particularly anxious about going home and the Welfare Service has provided them with someone to speak to, to help them stay centred, during this challenging period."
Lon Teija, Students’ Union Education & Welfare Support Officer
As well as the Students’ Union welfare support service, students can also access Togetherall (formerly known as Big White Wall) for free, confidential 24-hour online support.
This platform is also funded by the alumni community and allows students to self-manage their mental health and wellbeing through a range of online courses and clinically managed, trained professionals, called Wall Guides, are on hand 24 hours a day to help those in need of extra support.
Watch the video to find out more about the service.
Your support will ensure that all students are able to access the emotional support that they need in order to have the best possible experience of studying at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/scholarships-and-bursaries:
Our scholarships and bursaries are a vital way to allow all students an equal opportunity to thrive at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting), whatever their background, specialism or area of interest.
They allow our students the chance to gain valuable experience outside the classroom and develop their knowledge both within, and outside of, their course subject.
We are currently developing our approach to offering scholarships and bursaries.
To find out more, please contact the Development & Alumni Relations Office on 0208 266 6195 or email giving@sgul.ac.uk .
Class of ​2001 alumnus, Mr Ravi Ray, works as a Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon at Basildon & Thurrock University Hospitals, Spire Hartswood, Spire Wellesley, Nuffield Brentwood & Harley Street Specialist Hospitals.
Mr Ray also provides educational input and pastoral care to junior doctors, nurses & physiotherapists as well as being involved in national recruitment of junior doctors into specialist Orthopaedic training.
Mr Ray's passion for (legacy) St George's and desire to support the next generation of medical and health care professionals led to the creation of the Ravi Ray Scholarship in Undergraduate Medicine.
Read more about Ravi.
The Ravi Ray Scholarship in Undergraduate Medicine helps alleviate financial concerns for students from disadvantaged backgrounds who demonstrate outstanding potential to make a difference in the world.
Each year, the scholarship will provide funding towards one Medicine scholar’s tuition fees or living costs for the final three years of their programme.
The selected scholar will receive £3,000 annually towards tuition fees for Years 3, 4 and towards living costs for Year 5 (or an intercalated year) of their degree.
We do not accept applications for this scholarship.
Each year a panel of staff select a scholar by identifying the highest scoring second year students and selecting the individual with the greatest level of financial need.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/support-our-research:
Every day, we conduct pioneering research to improve the lives of patients within our own hospital, throughout the UK, and around the world.
“City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) is an exciting place to do research, with our focus on impact underpinning every aspect of our research strategy.
Ranking joint 8th in the UK for Research Impact in the most recent Research Excellence Framework was a proud achievement, showing that, despite being a compact institution, our specialist focus enables us to drive transformative change in healthcare, beyond academia.”
Jon Friedland, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research & Enterprise)
We are privileged to be the only UK university to share a campus with an NHS teaching hospital.
The onsite integration between researchers, patients, students and healthcare workers creates a vibrant environment, geared towards translational research.
Our researchers are tackling some of the world’s most important healthcare challenges, specialising in fields such as infectious disease, antibiotic resistance, neurosciences and cardiovascular research.
To find out more about our research portfolio, you might want to explore the r esearch content on our website.
Making a donation towards our research activity will ensure that City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) continue to lead innovation in health research.
We have three established Research Funds which align with areas of clinical specialism at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
You can find out more on the pages below.
If there is a specific area of research that you would like to support, which is not covered by these funds, please contact the Development & Alumni Relations Office on 0208 266 6195 or email giving@sgul.ac.uk
Your support will help us to tackle the biggest healthcare challenges facing the modern world and improve lives for patients.
We take a research-centred approach to diagnosing and treating patients with neurological conditions.
We are the UK’s primary site for investigating deaths in the young caused by sudden cardiac arrests.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/leave-a-gift-in-your-will:
We know that making a Will is an important and personal action.
It offers an opportunity to make provisions not only for family and friends but also to support the organisations, institutions and causes that you believe in.
Leaving a gift in your Will to City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) is an investment in the future of science and medical education, careers and ground-breaking medical research.
It marks your place in City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) history and inspires the generations to come.
Whether you are an alumnus, a former member of staff or a friend of the university, by choosing to remember City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) in your Will you can help to enrich the lives of students, the medicine and healthcare professionals of the future, and support our ground-breaking medical research.
There are a number of different ways to write a gift to St George’s in to your Will.
If you would like to talk to one of our team to find out more, please call the Development and Alumni Relations Office on 0208 266 6195 or send us an email .
If you’ve already included a gift to City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) in your Will, we would love to hear from you.
This will enable us to plan for the future, thank you properly and keep you up to date with news from the University.
Please call the Development and Alumni Relations Office on 0208 266 6195 or get in touch via email .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/making-your-gift:
We take your privacy very seriously.
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) is committed to protecting your personal data and informing you of yours rights in relation to that data.
To find out more, please read our Privacy Notice .
Tax-efficient giving is a way to enhance the value of your gift.
There are a number of ways to make a tax-efficient gift.
Gift Aid is a government scheme that allows the university to reclaim the basic rate tax on your gifts.
To qualify you must be a UK taxpayer and have paid UK income tax and/or capital gains tax equal to or more than the amount of Gift Aid that all charities will claim on all your gifts in a tax year (6 April to 5 April).
If you are a UK taxpayer and have paid sufficient tax please tick the Gift Aid box when making your donation to enable us to claim Gift Aid.
Please note the donor will be responsible if there is any tax shortfall.
If you are a higher-rate taxpayer, you may be able to claim additional tax relief on your donations.
If you pay tax at a rate of 40 per cent or above, you can claim the difference between the higher and basic rate on your donation.
Making a gift in your will could reduce the inheritance tax on your estate, and leave a lasting legacy for City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
Inheritance tax is applicable if your estate is worth over £325,000 when you die.
By choosing to make a bequest in your will, the amount of inheritance tax payable can be significantly reduced.
City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) is an exempt charity for all tax purposes and therefore all bequests to the university are exempt from inheritance tax.
If ten per cent of an individual’s net estate is given to charity in their will, the inheritance tax can be reduced to a rate of 36 per cent (instead of 40 per cent).
The net value of your estate is the sum of all the assets after deducting any debts, liabilities, reliefs, exemptions and the nil rate band.
Individual circumstances differ, so if you are considering leaving a legacy, please make sure to consult a solicitor or financial professional to discuss the impact of making a bequest on your estate.
If you are a US tax payer you can give through British Schools & Universities Foundation (BSUF) , a charitable organisation that allows UK universities to ensure your gift is tax-deductible.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/give/your-impact:
Your donations allow us to give support to where it is most needed, to offer education to students who may otherwise not have the means to embark on a medical or science degree, and to fund transformative research.
By making a donation to City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting), you are benefitting not only our students but also the patients who will benefit from their professional care and expertise, as well as from our academic research.
Each year we produce a short report sharing stories of the impact of the donations that we receive.
You can read these below.
Read about some of the ways in which alumni support had an impact in 2021-22.
Read about some of the ways in which alumni support had an impact in 2020-21.
Read about some of the ways in which alumni support had an impact in 2019-20.
Read about some of the ways in which alumni support had an impact in 2018-19.
The first of a new series of articles profiling the stories behind major donations received by the University and their impact on research and education.
14 January 2021
This new series of articles will profile the stories behind major donations received by the University.
This story focuses on work funded by James and Margaret Lancaster.
22 February 2021

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/clearing:
Applications for Clearing at City St George's, University of London Tooting campus can be made online via our application form which you can open by clicking the green button below.
See information about Clearing for courses on our Clerkenwell campus .
To help you find out more about Clearing, we have answered some of your frequently asked questions.
Read our tips on how to prepare for Clearing.
Watch our Clearing Webinar to learn more about Clearing, receive guidance, preparation and advice.
See what the interview requirements are for our courses and see advice on how to prepare.
Take a look at guidance on the application process for Clearing.
Learn about how Clearing offers will be made and when your year of entry will be confirmed.
Information about Clearing to help parents and carers support a young person going through the process.
Hear from City St George's students who have been through Clearing and what their advice is to prospective students navigating Clearing in 2025.
Learn more about our campus, see our facilities and meet current students.
Contact our Clearing Team (to discuss Tooting courses only) by emailing clearing@sgul.ac.uk or 0300 303 0457 .
Our opening times are as follows:
Following this our hours will be 10am to 1pm and 2pm to 4pm, Monday to Friday (excluding Bank Holiday Monday 25 August when we will be closed).

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/news/st-georges-and-city-formally-and-legally-merged-to-form-city-st-georges-university-of-london:
Published: 01 August 2024
Current and prospective students will automatically be members of City St George’s, University of London.
Our terms and conditions of study have changed to reflect the new name but there are no other substantive changes.
For the 2024/25 academic year we will be ‘dual running’.
This essentially means that all supporting policies and procedures for students will remain as previously operated by St George’s (for St George’s programmes) and City (for City programmes).
This is because full integration of systems and processes will take some time.
Our programmes and the location of study remain unchanged, as does student access to support services.
Prospective students applying to programmes in 2024 and 2025 which were previously offered by City, University of London should continue to refer to the City website until 3 March 2025, at which point the new website for City St George’s will be launched.
Similarly, prospective students applying for programmes in 2024 and 2025 previously offered by St George’s, University of London should continue to refer to the St George’s website until 3 March 2025, at which point the website for City St George’s will be launched.
Undergraduate programmes and Postgraduate programmes that apply through UCAS for 2024 and 2025 will continue to be through City, University of London (C60) or St George’s, University of London (S49) as appropriate.
Postgraduate applications for 2024 and 2025 will also continue to be through St George’s, University of London or City, University of London as appropriate.
Applications can be made on the relevant website.
Students wishing to apply to City St George’s in Clearing this August should refer to the current City Clearing website for programmes previously offered by City, University of London and to the current St George’s Clearing website hub for programmes previously offered by St George’s, University of London.
For the foreseeable future, activities across health and medicine will continue at their current locations, across our Clerkenwell and Tooting (St George’s) sites.
This means that there are no changes for students of either City’s School of Health and Psychological Sciences, or St George’s, University of London, i.e.
their studies will be exclusively located at either Clerkenwell or Tooting respectively, as previously.
Further information about the merger, including answers to a range of questions is available on the Student Hub.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-education-centres/centre-for-technology-in-education/learning-technology-services/canvas.aspx:
Canvas is the virtual learning environment (VLE) used at City St George’s, University of London.
Canvas can be used to create digital learning environments for highly interactive and engaging teaching and learning.
Introduced in the autumn term of 2018, students can access all their course materials and lecture recordings ( Panopto ) on Canvas.
For help with using Canvas or to explore its potential for teaching and learning, please contact Learning Technology Services or drop in to the Learning Technology Services office in the library.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/cookies-policy.aspx:
A cookie is a small text file stored in your browser.
Cookies are used to help websites work and to provide information to the website owners.
The St George's, University of London websites use analytical cookies.
This type of cookie is used to collect information about how visitors use our site.
The information is used to compile reports and to help us improve the site.
The cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the site, where visitors have come to the site from and the pages they visited.
These cookies do not contain any information about you as a person.
Most browsers tend to be set to allow cookies by default, but you can usually change these settings.
If you are not sure how to do this please refer to the help function in your browser.
By using this site you agree that we can place these types of cookies on your device.
We use Google Analytics on our website to understand more about how visitors to the site are interacting with it.
For more information, visit Google Analytics .
You can opt out of Google Analytics tracking on our website via our Cookies banner that appears when you first visit the website.
To opt out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites, visit Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on .
Learn more about how we use data in our Privacy notice.
We use a third party provider, Poppulo, to deliver our staff and student e-newsletters.
We gather statistics around email opening and clicks using industry standard technologies including clear gifs to help us monitor and improve our newsletter.
For more information, please see Poppulo’s privacy notice .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/information-governance/data-protection/privacy-notice.aspx:
Important notice: From the 1 August 2024 City, University of London and St George’s, University of London have merged to become City St George’s, University of London.
Therefore City St George's is now the new Data Controller name for the merged institution.
Our details have been updated with the Information Commissioner’s Office.
Data subject notifications will be issued in due course, and privacy notices will be aligned and updated during this transition period.
In the meantime, information rights queries should be directed to dataprotection@sgul.ac.uk .
City St George’s, University of London is committed to protecting your personal data and informing you of yours rights in relation to that data.
City St George's, University of London processes personal data in compliance with all relevant UK data protection legislation, and is a registered fee payer as required by the Data Protection (Charges and Information) Regulations 2018, registration number Z8947127.
When you supply any personal information to City St George’s, University of London we have legal obligations towards you in the way we deal with that data.
We must collect the information fairly, explain how we will use it and tell you if we want to pass the information on to anyone else.
The university will process your personal data in accordance with UK data protection legislation.
Our privacy notices explain how we use your data.
The current versions of all of our privacy notices can be found below.
We may update our Privacy Notices at any time and we encourage you to check back here regularly to review any changes.
Email: dataprotection@sgul.ac.uk Tel: 020 8725 0668 Address: Data Protection Officer, Information Services, St George’s University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London SW17 0RE.
We will only use your information in accordance with our privacy notices below.
Please read the privacy notice that is relevant to you.
Unless specific time periods are given in the relevant Privacy Notice, your data will be kept in line with our Records Retention Schedule .
You have the following rights in relation to your personal data processed by us, including:
Please contact the Data Protection Officer with any data protection queries or complaints, or to get more information about exercising your rights in relation to the personal data the University holds about you.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/governance/compliance/modern-slavery-statement.aspx:
St George’s, University of London merged with City, University of London to become City St George’s, University of London on 1 August 2024.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes St George’s, University of London’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024, prior to the merger.
It has been approved by the St George’s, University of London Council for Dissolution, in November 2024.
We are committed to improving our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking, to ethical conduct of all activities and to making continuous improvements to processes in that regard.
St George’s was the UK’s only university solely dedicated to medical and health sciences education, training and research co-located with St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust within St George’s Hospital in Tooting, South West London.
We were a member institution of the University of London.
In 2023/24 we had a global annual turnover of £96 million.
Our procurement services were managed under contract by Kingston University.
Our supply chains mainly fell within the following ‘top level' categories:
We were a member of the London Universities Purchasing Consortium (LUPC) which has also published its own Modern Slavery Statement which details how they manage the modern slavery compliance for over 200 member institutions and organisations who procure through their frameworks which encompass nearly £230million spend across their framework agreements.
We channelled in excess of 30% of the value of our addressable spend through LUPC and agreements arranged by the other higher education purchasing consortia and public sector purchasing consortia.Full details of the LUPC’s modern slavery compliance is found here .
The business and supply chains which may pose particular risks in terms of slavery are in facilities management, ICT and AV equipment, construction, and partnerships with overseas institutions in some jurisdictions.
Our due diligence processes (below) minimised these risks, and our facilities management services were provided by an outsourced provider appointed via the LUPC which had therefore been scrutinised and complies with the LUPC requirements.
We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our Institution.
Our ethos as a specialist medical and health institutionteaching vocational courses which emphasise ethical conduct reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our supply chains.
As part of our initiative to identify and mitigate risk:
We had in place systems to:
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains and our business, the LUPC provide training to the Procurement team via an e-learning module on their website.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/staff-wellbeing-networks-and-development:
This is a 24/7 service provided by Confidential Care and is able to advise on a variety of topics as well as offering counselling and emotional support.
Counselling provides a non-judgemental, confidential setting to help you gain perspective and a better understanding of your situation.
Explore the services available to develop professionally and personally.
Explore our mental health first aiders as well as resources, guidance, training and events to support and promote mental health and wellbeing.
Explore what support and training is available and what policies apply to people who work for us.
The Network provides safe and supportive space for staff, as well a formal channel to raise issues.
This group is formed of staff from across professional and technical service areas who have come together to discuss different aspects of professional life at City St George's.
How to Arrive and Thrive at St George's has been designed to provide a central reference point for your queries as a member of staff.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/essentials-policies-pay-benefits-and-more:
Find out about university policies and get answers to your questions around finance, human resources and the merger.
Use this tool to search through all City St George's (Tooting campus) policies.
Your go-to destination for all information related to City St George’s integration programme.
Find out when you should get paid, how merit award work, and the range of benefits offered by the university, including pensions, annual leave, flexible working, season ticket loan, and more.
Our payroll procedures apply to all staff categories employed by City St George's (Tooting campus), including some casual and personal service workers.
A flexible working policy has been developed and staff who are able to can spend part of their week working remotely.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/support-for-raising-a-concern:
Visit these pages to find our about how you can raise a concern and what support there is available.
The purpose of this policy is to assist in developing and encouraging a working and learning environment in which bullying, harassment and discrimination are known to be unacceptable.
We are committed to developing and maintaining constructive relations with its employees, providing employees with access to a procedure to help resolve any grievances relating to their employment.
The whistleblowing and public interest disclosure policy aims to encourage staff or students to report suspected wrongdoing.
Read more about this and how to raise your concerns.
How to Arrive and Thrive at St George’s has been designed to provide a central reference point for your queries as a member of staff.
We fully supports students raising concerns and we are committed to investigating allegations swiftly and fairly.
The Clinical Ethics Committee (CEC) offers support and assistance for clinicians dealing with ethical issues arising from clinical practice and patient care within St George's NHS Foundation Trust.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/news/upcoming-changes-to-the-university-email-address:
Published: 17 February 2025
From the Monday 3 March 2025, the sending (reply-to) email address for all students and staff will change to (name/username)@citystgeorges.ac.uk automatically to coincide with the new branding and website launch.
The “name” or “username” part of your email address will remain the same, so for example:
Your legacy institutional email addresses will continue to receive emails, for example:
You will need to continue using your legacy email address to access IT services and systems after 3 March 2025.
The table below shows the changes to students' communities:
If you have any questions about the email change that are not answered below, please contact the IT Service Desk at Clerkenwell /Moorgate or the IT Helpdesk at Tooting.
Existing students with a @city.ac.uk email address
Sending email address (i.e.
your “from” address) will change to name@citystgeorges.ac.uk .
Legacy email address ( name@city.ac.uk ) will continue to receive emails as well.
Existing students with a @sgul.ac.uk email address
your “from” address) will change to username@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Legacy email address ( username@sgul.ac.uk ) will continue to receive emails as well.
All student and staff external email addresses will change on the 3 March 2025 to coincide with the new branding launch and website www.citystgeorges.ac.uk .
Having a uniform email address for all students and staff will help us raise the profile of our new name and brand and ensure consistent communication externally.
All external email sent by staff and students will be sent from (name/username)@citystgeorges.ac.uk .
From 3 March the sending (reply-to) email address for all staff and students will be changing to (name/username)@citystgeorges.ac.uk.
This change will occur automatically, and means any emails sent from 3 March will be sent from the new email address [(name/username)@citystgeorges.ac.uk]
After the change, you will need to continue to use your legacy email address or user ID to access systems e.g.
username@sgul.ac.uk or name@city.ac.uk.
Yes, if you have more than one email address (email alias) e.g., bsmith@sgul.ac.uk and bobs@sgul.ac.uk you will continue to receive emails to all your incoming email addresses.
No action is needed to continue sending and receiving emails, the new @citystgeorges.ac.uk email address will be applied automatically on 3 March 2025.
No, you will continue to send and received emails from your existing Inbox and Sent folders.
No, the legacy email addresses (@city.ac.uk and @sgul.ac.uk) will continue to receive all emails.
The sending email address will be set to your new @citystgeorges.ac.uk.
Yes, you will continue to have access to all your current emails and Inbox.
Yes, emails sent to @city.ac.uk or @sgul.ac.uk will still be received to your Inbox.
No students will need to continue to use their legacy email addresses or usernames (@city.ac.uk and @sgul.ac.uk), to access IT services after the 3 March.
This will remain in place until our IT systems are fully integrated, which will happen over a longer time.
No, your user ID or username will remain the same and will not be changing.
When sending emails internally to legacy campuses, they will continue to be sent from your legacy email address, for example:
Sending emails from Clerkenwell and Moorgate to Tooting (and vice-versa) is classed as “external” email so these will be sent from (name/username)@citystgeorges.ac.uk
Role accounts are similar to individual user accounts with an email address and may be used by the likes of societies.
The same changes apply to role accounts and individual student and staff email accounts.
The sending email address (reply-to) for role accounts will also be changing to (name/username)@citystgeorges.ac.uk
This change will also happen automatically from the 3 March.
Shared mailboxes are shared email accounts without an assigned user and used mainly at Tooting.
The email address for shared mailboxes will not change and will remain as: [shared mailbox name]@sgul.ac.uk when sending emails internally within Tooting or externally.
The legacy email systems (@city.ac.uk and @sgul.ac.uk) are not yet integrated, even though your email address will appear as (name/username)@citystgeorges.ac.uk when sending emails externally.
Any email exchanges between Tooting and Clerkenwell/Moorgate campuses must be treated as being sent to an external organisation.
Please share sensitive data securely via other channels: Teams, SharePoint, OneDrive.
If email must be used, please use encryption and password protect attachments and send the password via an alternative channel e.g.
Teams.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/news/city-university-of-london-and-st-georges-university-of-london-agree-to-merge:
Published: 22 February 2024
City, University of London and St George’s, University of London have signed an agreement to merge, creating a powerful multi-faculty institution.
The combined university will become one of the largest suppliers of the health workforce in the capital, as well as one of the largest higher education destinations for London students.
This development marks a key milestone for both universities, bringing together each of their strengths to form one world-class institution.
It will result in significant advantages in terms of scale, reach, capability, and resilience.
Subject to the necessary regulatory approvals, the merged institution will be called City St George’s, University of London and will begin operating from 1 August 2024 - although full integration will take longer.
The combined institution will be led by Professor Sir Anthony Finkelstein, the current President of City.
In the health sphere St George’s will bring medicine, pharmacology, biomedical science, allied and global health to complement City’s health offering which includes nursing, midwifery, speech and language therapy, optometry, counselling, and psychology.
One of very few institutions offering this breadth of expertise, the combined institution will constitute a ‘health powerhouse’ for students, researchers, the NHS and partners.
By combining the reputation of St George’s as a world-leading specialist health university with City’s excellence in a breadth of disciplines including health, business, law, creativity, communications, science and technology, the merger also creates opportunities to generate significant change in the world of healthcare.
This includes changes to treatment, population health monitoring, workforce development and leadership, policy, and advocacy.
Professor Sir Anthony Finkelstein, President, City, University of London said:
"City St George’s will assume a role as one of the major London centres for higher education and research, distinctively different from the other member institutions of the University of London.
“We will be uniquely placed to play a key role in resolving one of the greatest societal issues of the day – training and developing the workers and leaders for the NHS and healthcare professions that are so desperately needed.
"City St George’s will be the place for rethinking healthcare for the twenty-first century and will undertake the research to underpin that.
“I am looking forward to leading City St George’s and to working with the remarkable and talented staff, students, and alumni in our combined institution.”
Professor Jenny Higham, Vice-Chancellor, St George’s, University of London said:
"As we move forward with this strategic merger, I am enthusiastic about the tremendous promise our shared vision holds - not just for healthcare and research, but for science, service, and excellence more broadly.
"By bringing together the strengths of both universities, our common commitment to practice and professionalism will allow City St George's to accomplish great things across many disciplines."
"I look forward to collaborating with Professor Sir Anthony Finkelstein and all our talented staff, students, and alumni as we shape City St George's, University of London into a powerhouse for healthcare education and research."
Sir Patrick Vallance, Former Government Chief Scientific Adviser and St George’s alumnus said:
“I trained as a doctor at St George’s and subsequently joined the staff, teaching, undertaking research in pharmacology and working as a consultant physician in the hospital.
"St George’s has always been an institution where the medical school and the hospital have been closely joined in the mission to improve health and advance the understanding of and treatment of disease.
“It took a bold decision when it moved from central London to Tooting to meet the needs of the population and it has built an impressive independent profile.
“This latest decision to combine with City and create City St George’s will bring a broad range of allied health professions together with medicine into a single institution and provides an exciting opportunity to train the next generations of medical and health professions in an innovative way and to undertake the research needed to improve patient care.”

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/staff-notifications:
If you would like to suggest a staff notice, email communications@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/it-services/itav-support/email/how-do-i-access-my-st-georges-email.aspx:
For email and calendaring services we use Office 365.
You can access Office 365 online using any web browser.
If you are based at St George’s and have permanent access to one machine, then you should use Microsoft Outlook.
However, it is possible for you to choose your own email client.
You can obtain the setup details by contacting IT/AV Support .
You should ensure that you choose an IMAP4-compliant email client in order to communicate with the university’s email server – if you are unsure, please email us for more information.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/finance/other-finance-functions/frisagresso/home.aspx:
FRIS/Agresso is St George’s, University of London’s financial system, used for purchasing goods and managing our revenue and expenditure.
Below you will find links to guidance on accessing and using the system.
For any queries related to FRIS/Agresso, please email at fris@sgul.ac.uk
Our collection of Agresso quick reference cards will help you use St George’s financial system.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/it-services/itav-support/home.aspx:
The online helpdesk is your first point of contact for all queries, problems and requests regarding IT and AV services at St George’s.
(All queries, problems and requests regarding the SGUL Website or Web services should be made to the Web Development Team .)
Our telephone number should be used for emergencies only.
When logging a fault, please make sure you have as much information as possible to hand, in particular details of any error messages.
If you need to visit a member of the team for any reason (such as collecting or returning equipment), please use the email address on the right to book an appointment.
So we can serve you better, please do not email individual members of our team directly.
The IT chatbot can assist with a broad range of IT related issues.
These include hardware, software, login, network and more.
The chatbot can be accessed through Microsoft Teams by clicking on the "View more apps" icon on the sidebar and searching for "ITAV".
Visit our IT Helpdesk for help and advice on access and password issues, mobile devices, laptops, Wi-Fi and more.
.
Log a job
Email IT support
x5055
Check out @SGULIT on Twitter to see if your issue is widespread

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/registry/timetabling/home.aspx:
Details of available rooms to book and find out how to contact the University room booking team.
Here you will find links to our web applications and common documents you may need for timetabling and room booking.
Details of private and group study space, how to book teaching space for SU societies and find out how to view your timetable.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/quick-links/university-calendar/home.aspx:
The University calendar provides key institutional dates such as committee dates, planning deadlines, and the dates of multi-mini interviews and has been developed to assist staff across the university in their planning, with a focus on educational activities.
The dates for the 2021-22 academic year have now been added to the University calendar.
Further dates will be added as they become available.
The University calendar has been set up primarily to support university education planning processes.
The calendar contains educational events, the dates of the main committees involved in education, and education processing periods and deadlines.
The University calendar is primarily for staff.
All internal staff (staff with an @sgul.ac.uk or @sgul.kingston.ac.uk email address) can have read access to the calendar.
It is anticipated that the calendar will be of most use to those running programmes.
The principles that have guided what is included in the University calendar are:
Some activities have been set up as ‘All Day Events’, appearing at the top of the respective day when they take place.
All other activities have been set up with their own 9am-5pm entry on a particular day(s).
The University calendar has been set up as a shared mailbox on Outlook.
It is recommended that Outlook online (accessing Outlook via a web browser) be used to add the University calendar as testing showed it was easier and more reliable to use.
Step-by-step instructions on how to subscribe to the University calendar using Outlook online are below.
Go to calendar view in Outlook.
Click ‘Add calendar’ in the left-hand panel as below.
From the resultant page, click ‘Subscribe from web’.
Paste the URL below where prompted on the resultant page.
The following screen will then appear.
You will need to give the calendar being imported a name as well as select the area where the University calendar will reside in your calendars.
https://outlook.office365.com/owa/calendar/e797bb7778ba4550978c900864ed12a9@sgul.ac.uk/9f5e5fe931a94a18bded095feab9c4ed17300193448012371897/calendar.ics
5.
Give the calendar the title ‘University calendar’, select which calendar section you would like the calendar to be added to, and click ‘Import’.
The ‘Colour’ and ‘Charm’ sections can be ignored.
6.
Wait a few moments for the import to take place.
The University calendar will then be available to access in whichever section of your calendar you selected it to be added.
Please note: if you have previously imported the University calendar, the import may fail.
However, it should already be available to you irrespective.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/estates-and-facilities/campus-maps/home.aspx:
Here you'll find maps to teaching areas throughout the campus.
Site map of the entire Tooting campus and hospital (PDF)
All Tooting campus maps (PDF)
Map of bike stores (PDF).
Ground floor (PDF)
First floor (PDF)
Second floor (PDF)
Fourth floor (PDF)
Fifth floor (PDF)
Sixth floor (PDF)
Basement (PDF)

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/estates-and-facilities/helpdesk-and-switchboard.aspx:
The helpdesk records all service calls for the Estates and Facilities department.
It is intended to record calls about cleaning, portering, locks and keys, maintenance, projects, air conditioning, lifts, health and safety concerns, vending, fire equipment, security, waste, workshops and more.
Please email the helpdesk .
For urgent faults, please call the helpdesk on 1234 option 2.
When you report a fault, please give as much information about the problem as possible, including:
You will then be contacted with a job number.
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Outside these hours a voicemail system operates and messages are attended to the following working day, unless urgent, where a bleep number is given.
You may also use these methods to enquire about a job you have already logged.
Please have your job number ready when calling.
You will receive an email once work has been done informing you that the job has been closed.
The hours of operation for the switchboard are Monday to Friday between 9.00am – 5.00pm.
To call externally 020 8672 9944 or internally, ext 5000
To make international calls please call the switchboard on ext 5000 and have the number ready you wish to dial, this also applies for calls to directory enquires and UK telephone numbers that you are unable to dial internally.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/on-campus/facilities-for-students-on-campus/social-spaces-and-places-to-eat.aspx:
There are several areas on campus for students to use to socialise, as well as places to get something to eat or drink.
We've listed these on this page so you know where to find them.
View our campus maps if you need further help with trying to find each space.
The Students' Union Games Room (Hunter Wing, 2nd Floor) has microwaves for students to use to heat up food on campus.
Ca
tering options at St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
*St George's, University of London students can get 20% off hot food at Ingredient's by showing their student ID cards.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/governance/policies/st-georges-space-policy.aspx:
This policy outlines the process for allocation of space at St George's, University of London (St George's).
As a finite resource, efficient and effective use of space is crucial in advancing the University's strategic priorities.
The allocation of space will be organised in a consistent and transparent manner, with strategic, functional, and quantitative needs taken into consideration.
Nevertheless, the application of space allocation set out in this policy may be limited within specific buildings on the estate.
It will be used to inform new development but will not necessarily affect existing as-built office environments.
All University space is the property of St George’s;
The Estates and Facilities team led by the Director of Estates and Facilities is responsible for maintaining the space in conjunction with key Directorate colleagues;
Requests for any space must be reviewed and approved by the Space Management Group;
Heads of Centres/Directorates are responsible for managing space efficiently within their respective teams in accordance with this policy;
Periodic reviews will be conducted to assess space allocations.
A proactive approach will be adopted to maximise the efficient use of all space, allowing the Space Strategy Committee to prioritise allocation based on evolving needs.
It is acknowledged that:
- individual staff have different work allocation for research, teaching and administrative tasks, which will be considered carefully in implementation of the Policy.
- changing research funding landscape and technology advances may influence the optimisation of allocated space in response to the current and emerging needs.
- changes in teaching obligations may influence the optimisation of allocated space.
This policy is firmly grounded in supporting the University's strategy.
Therefore, it allows the Senior Leadership Team the necessary flexibility to make strategic space decisions, even if they don't fully align with specific sections of the policy, enabling agile decision-making and the effective balancing of competing priorities.
Teaching room bookings are handled by the Timetabling Team.
Easy to accommodate requests for space (desk space, bench space, small offices) will be managed by the Research Operations team (Jenner Wing), Education Operations team (Hunter Wing, Levels 4, 5, and 6) or Estates and Facilities (all other areas).
Complex requests for space that may require significant disruption will be managed by Estates and Facilities.
Decisions regarding space allocation will be considered and approved by the Space Management Group.
The following statements are provided as general guidelines to assist in decision-making processes.
These statements may not be applicable to all situations and will depend on particular circumstances that will be assessed by the staff managing space and the Space Management Group.
Normally, the following overarching principles will be applied:
- In all cases, if required, all members of staff are expected to share offices;
- If staff already hold an office elsewhere (e.g., Trust), allocation of space will usually be within a hot-desking area;
- Single occupancy offices should only be allocated based on requirements of the role;
- Single occupancy offices should be allocated only if staff members are on campus 0.6 FTE or more days each week or at the discretion of the University’s authorities in accordance with paragraph 6 of the Principles of Space Management;
- Staff members that are on site less than 0.6 FTE / 3 days each week (part time tutors, part time lecturers or staff on site less than 3 days) will be allocated a hot desk within an agile working zone or shared work station in a shared office;
- Staff who have been formally approved to regularly work off campus, will not generally have a dedicated single occupancy office;
- Staff with approved working off site arrangements should, either be allocated a shared work station similar to staff with a fractional FTE or provided with access to a hot desk while on campus depending on their specific circumstances;
- Staff visiting for more than six months may be provided with a dedicated workstation within a specific area if they will be on site more than 0.6 FTE / 3 days;
- Staff visiting for less than six months will be located in shared open plan spaces or existing shared offices.
These staff members will not be provided with a permanent workstation or single occupancy office;
- Bookable meeting rooms will be configured and allocated per zone;
- Space needs of research-focused clinical academic staff will be considered similarly to those of
non-clinical academic staff;
- All research staff without funding to maintain a research group may be asked to share office, regardless of seniority;
- Shared workspace/hotdesking will include a desk space (usually 1 m) with a possibility of either under desk pedestal, cabinet, shelves or drawer cabinet, depending on the space configuration.
· Institute Directors will be offered a single occupancy office;
· Full-time (not honorary) non-clinical and clinical Professors will usually be provided with a single occupancy office;
· Non-clinical and clinical Readers (not honorary) will usually be provided with a single occupancy office but may be required to share office depending on space availability;
· Non-clinical and clinical Lecturers and Senior Lecturers (not honorary) will be offered a shared office;
· Part-time Academic Staff at all levels of seniority will usually be allocated multi-occupancy office space, although grant income or the volume/nature of educational responsibilities will be factored into allocations;
· Academic staff holding Honorary Clinical positions and Clinicians with academic contracts will be allocated space according to the above seniority level and part-time allocation principles considering the amount of time that they spend on researchor education-related activities;
· Emeritus Staff will be given access to a shared workspace/hotdesking in a multi-occupancy office, but this allocation must be signed off by an Institute Director;
· Academic visitors are generally not allocated a workspace/hotdesk, but such request of space will be considered on a case-by-case basis;
· Post-doctoral research associates, research fellows, research nurses, clinical fellows, PhD students and other contract researchers will normally be allocated a workspace in a shared area (usually 1 m), unless clearly specified otherwise in grant applications;
· MRes, MSc and BSc students should be able to share desk spaces in the proximity of the laboratories where they are carrying out their research projects.
This allocation will depend on space availability.
Desk space will be distributed rationally on an annual basis.
This will be agreed between Research Operations Staff and the Course Directors considering student allocations and type of project.
· Full-time senior PSS Staff (Professorial and Senior) working on site 0.6 FTE or more will be offered single-occupancy offices or shared/multi-occupancy office space;
· Full Time or Part-time Administrative Staff on site more than 0.6 FTE will be allocated their
own workspace in a multi-occupancy office;
· Full Time or Part-time Administrative Staff on site less than 0.6 FTE will be allocated a workspace/hot-desk in a multi-occupancy office (usually 1 m), with separate secure lockable personal storage space;
· Trust-contracted Support Staff should sit in the Trust.
If this not practicable, they will be allocated a workspace/hotdesk in a multi-occupancy office by agreement on a case-by-case basis, and if the space is available.
Laboratory space allocation will be discussed between the Institute Managers and/or Institute Directors in consultation with Director of Research Operations and follow the process for space allocation described above.
All researchers, including PhD students will usually be allocated bench space of 1 m, whilst the type of research will be taken into consideration and play part in the final bench space allocation.
Such principles will be extended to shared spaces as appropriate.
BSc/MSc/MRes students undertaking research projects will be accommodated in laboratory space appropriate to the context of the research group to which they have been assigned, on a case by case basis.
Desk space allocation cannot be guaranteed and will follow the length of time required i.e., order of priority of PhD, MRes, MSc, BSc students.
Writing-up space can be found in the Library if necessary.
It is expected that sharing of facilities and equipment both within and between Research Institutes will be promoted so as to enable efficient space utilisation.
The needs of individual groups will be considered depending on requirements for delivery of funded research.
Such requirements may include, but are not limited to:
- Number of staff in the group, funded by research grant(s) or commercial funding;
- Space allocation for equipment bought via external funding; however, purchases of large equipment should be discussed in advance of grant application submission or cannot be guaranteed space;
- Use of tissue culture facilities.
Multi-user laboratory spaces: Researchers will be allocated bench space based on research grant income and the number of permanent/contracted members of staff that they manage or the number of PhD students that they supervise.
There will be no permanent bench allocation based on the potential number of MRes, MSc, or BSc students that they may supervise.
Bench space for MRes, MSc, and BSc students in multiuser laboratories will be distributed rationally on an annual basis.
Students will preferably be allocated space in the same laboratory as their supervisors, but not necessarily next to their bench.
This will be agreed between Research Operations Staff and the Course Directors considering student allocations and type of projects.
To facilitate the effective management of teaching space all generic learning spaces on campus will be centrally managed by the Timetabling team within Registry.
Use of teaching rooms will be reviewed frequently across the academic year based on occupancy and void data.
Teaching spaces are owned by the University and all teaching activities taking place in these spaces must be included in the central web data collector, to facilitate student timetables and to enable the whole teaching estate to be managed and maintained effectively.
Further details can be found in the Timetabling Guidance 23-24 document.
The Policy is implemented and monitored by the Space Management Group, including administrative and academic representatives from all areas of the University.
Space Management Group reports to the Space Strategy Committee, which in turn reports to the Executive Board.
The procedure should adhere to the guidelines outlined in the Space Allocation section.
The Space Management Group will review the decisions and consider requests for space that may not readily align with the specified categories.
The Space Management Group shall approve and make decisions based on the optimal and efficient utilisation of the requested space.
All space requests should be submitted via Online Space Request Form .
Any queries regarding submitted requests or further questions can be directed to Spacerequests@sgul.ac.uk .
Appeals will be considered and resolved by the Space Strategy Committee.
Appeals necessitating immediate decisions will be addressed through the Chair's initiative in consultation with the Senior Leadership Team.
All teaching activities taking place in generic teaching spaces must be included in the central web data collector.
The requests will be centrally managed by the Timetabling team within Registry.
Changes in research space allocation will follow trends in research grant income, particularly the awards associated with increase in staff numbers and requirements for larger laboratory, equipment, and storage space.
Alterations in research space allocation will be arranged rationally, aiming for minimal disruption, in discussion with affected staff and according to St George’s responsibility to enable delivery of funded research.
Requests for new space allocations, changes in the current space allocations or usage of space must outline the rationale for the request and any specific requirements or special considerations.
Individuals vacating space together with their line managers are responsible for organising a timely clearance of all items from the allocated office and laboratory space, e.g., equipment, chemicals, books, records, supplies, fridges, freezers and communal storage spaces.
If the clearance is not completed within the agreed time, St George’s will arrange for disposal of all items and will pass any clearance charges to the incumbent.
It is the responsibility of the individual leaving to ensure that all data records are either disposed of, archived via the JRES, or handed over to a new custodian as appropriate during the leavers notice period, as per University’s Managing Leavers Records Procedure and records management .
If data records are not dealt with as set out in these instructions, and have met retention requirements for being eligible for disposal, they will be destroyed.
Storage space may be allocated for the following, but will solely depend upon storage space being available:
Download the document here.
(Word)

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/research-support/participatory-research-hub/home.aspx:
Everyone doing participatory research should know about this ladder!
Learn the key differences between co-design and patient and public involvement in research.
These helpful toolkits provide a step-by-step guide for using co-design, supporting you at every stage of the process.
Read papers and publications that highlight the principles and practices of co-design.
Get valuable insights from researchers at City St George's and Bridges Self-Management who have applied co-design in their projects.
Explore useful resources on methods to use both codesign and coproduction.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/research/our-impact/research-excellence-framework/ref-2021/home.aspx:
The information below refers to our REF submission when we were operating as St George's, University of London.
We are now the School of Health and Medical Sciences, part of City St George's
Download the REF results presentation slides (PPT).
Download the REF 2021 outputs summary (Excel).
It takes place every seven years and the next exercise will be conducted in 2021.
See Research Excellence Framework for more information.
Professor Jodi Lindsay, Director of Cross Cutting Themes and Academic Lead for REF, provided an overview of the REF 2021 and introduced St George’s strategy for REF to staff at roadshows that took place in May and June 2018.
The presentation has been updated for 2020, REF 2021: impact and strategies for St George’s (Powerpoint).
The next REF seminar takes place on Wednesday 4 March 2020, 11am – 12pm, in H2.8.
The seminar is ideal for new academic staff, those that would like a refresher or an update, or those who are part of the mock REF of outputs and need assistance.
Everyone is welcome.
Regular email communications sent to academic and research staff about St George’s preparation for the REF 2021 are sent from the Professor Jodi Lindsay, Director of Cross Cutting Themes.
Emails are available for all staff to read:
15 August 2018: REF 2021 update for academics
29 January 2019: REF 2021 update 1: SGUL's Code of Practice - we need your feedback
5 February 2019: REF 2021 update 2: What is an eligible output (paper)?
And some interesting new guidance!
7 May 2019: REF 2021 update 3: Latest version of our Code of Practice (CoP) and new Joint Institute membership call
11 June 2019: REF2021 update 4: What is a 3* or a 4* star paper?
19 June 2019: REF2021 update 5: What makes a good Impact Case?
5 November 2019: REF2021 update: Staff eligibility for REF 2021
10 August 2020: REF 2021 update 7: update on the new REF2021 deadlines
We have made minor changes to our approved Code of Practice for REF 2021 (PDF) due to the impact of COVID-19 on our REF submission.
This version of the Code was submitted to REF in October 2020.
The changes meet REF’s criteria for minor changes: a) The spacing of milestones within the timetable have not changed; b) The revised timing will allow processes to be concluded (including appeals process) in advance of the submission deadline; and c) The changes will be communicated to all relevant staff with ample time before final submission decisions are made.
The Code of Practice (PDF) applies to all staff involved in the preparation and submission of St George's REF 2021 return.
It provides a framework within which recommendations and decisions of identifying staff with significant responsibilities for research, determining research independence and selection of outputs, are conducted in a fair and transparent way with the aim of promoting equality and diversity, complying with legislation and avoiding discrimination.
St George's will adhere to the four main principles of REF 2021 to guide the Code of Practice: transparency, consistency, accountability and inclusivity.
St George’s submitted its Code of Practice to REF in June 2019.
Following the assessment of its Code of Practice, REF’s Equality and Diversity Advisory Panel and Research England determined that St George’s Code of Practice was not considered to meet the requirements set by REF.
It was amended and resubmitted in September 2019, when it received approval on 8 November 2019.
The Code of Practice required staff consultation before the final version was agreed upon and submitted.
Draft versions of St George’s Code of Practice for REF 2021:
St George’s Code of Practice sets out the criteria for eligible staff to be returned to REF 2021.
Staff must fulfil the criteria:
Are an independent researcher.
At SGUL this is defined as being employed as a Professor, Reader, Senior Lecturer or Lecturer (including Clinical posts) OR holding an independently funded fellowship on the approved REF2021 ‘List of independent Research Fellowships’ (Appendix 17: List of Independent Research Fellowships) and have already been awarded their PhD or MD.
Grounds for appeal
The grounds for appeal against a decision not to include an individual in the REF 2021 submission on the grounds of identifying staff with significant responsibility for research; criteria for eligible staff to be returned to REF 2021; research independence; and joint membership between Institutes will be that:
Appeals process
An individual who feels that he or she has been excluded from the submission to REF 2021 on grounds set out in the grounds for appeal can appeal against the decision.
Timetable for Appeals Procedure
Provisional timetable for decisions on staff selected for inclusion in REF 2021:
31 July 2020
Deadline for staff to be informed by REF Steering Executive of inclusion/non-inclusion in REF 2021.
31 July 2020 to 18 September 2020
Staff to discuss grounds for appeal with Research Institute Director.
If the member of staff is not satisfied with the outcome then the member of staff must follow the appeals process.
18 September 2020
Deadline for appellant to submit grounds for appeal in writing to Research Institute Director.
25 September 2020
Deadline for written appeals to be submitted by Research Institute Director to the Chair of Appeals Panel, the Deputy Principal (Institutional Affairs).
16 October 2020
Final date for consideration of appeals by the appeals panel – Deputy Principal (Institutional Affairs) and Deputy Principal (Research & Enterprise).
23 October 2020
Deadline for Deputy Principal (Institutional Affairs) and Deputy Principal (Research & Enterprise) to make final decision on outcome of appeals.
30 October 2020
Deadline for staff to be advised on the outcome of final appeal.
Research outputs (e.g.
journal article/paper) are assessed on the basis of ‘originality’, ‘rigour’ and ‘significance’.
Outputs count for 60% of the overall quality rating.
Guidance on what is an eligible output and what is rated as 3* or 4* is available to read at:
Ensure journal articles are compliant with the REF 2021 open access policy
Guidance to authors about complying with the process that will ensure journal articles are compliant with the REF 2021 open access policy is available on Library Open Access .
Using publication metrics responsibly
‘Using publication metrics responsibly’ event took place on 17 th October 2019.
The event was aimed at staff who use publication metrics to hire staff, are involved in promotions, or assess grants or papers based on research.
The event covered what types of metrics and metric providers are out there, and what other factors should be considered before using metrics such as journal impact factors, citations and h-indexes.
Understanding publication metrics is important for academia, and a major topic for St George’s both for our REF 2021 submission and because we have recently signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA)
View the presentation slides for ' Using publication metrics responsibly '.
Contact Professor Jodi Lindsay , if you want to discuss the topic of responsible publication metrics.
All eligible academic staff for the REF 2021 are being asked to identify their top papers using the CRIS assessment tool to support the REF Steering Executive with the internal mock REF of outputs.
Staff are being asked to select their top papers and provide supporting information about eligibility, authors, citations for your field, and originality, significance and rigour of the paper.
Staff who are eligible will be notified by email by Professor Jodi Lindsay, Academic Lead for REF in late January 2020, when the assessment is live on the CRIS.
Guidance for academics about how to access and use the CRIS mock REF assessment, how to select top papers, and considerations for the supporting information is available here: Guidance for CRIS REF Assessment – output selection (PDF)
Guidance for internal reviewers of outputs (PDF).
Internal reviewers of outputs were contacted in mid-August 2020, and have been asked to complete reviews by 30 September 2020.
To support reviewers, Professor Jodi Lindsay hosted a session on Friday 21 st August 2020 to go through the assessment criteria for the internal review of outputs (papers) for REF 2021, with time for questions.
The recorded presentation is available at: (login required using St George’s login): https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/c22ca2d2-035e-4b69-addd-bcd1d2518b3a
Impact is at the heart of St George’s mission.
Our world-leading research underpins a range of innovations which improve quality of life, mitigates harm and reduces mortality.
We did well in this area for REF 2014 and based on the case studies available thus far, we seem to be in a good position to repeat an excellent performance in 2021.
St George’s will submit approximately nine impact case studies (ICS) for REF 2021 (7 ICS to Unit of Assessment 1 for impact in MCS and I&I, and 2 ICS to Unit of Assessment 2 for impact in PHRI).
It and is a key component of our submission.
Impact cases are assessed on the reach and significance of the impact.
An impact case study summarises the underpinning research of the impact, and a narrative of the impact generated, supported by evidence including quantitative indicators.
If you have a potential impact case study that you would like to discuss, contact Professor Juan Carlos Kaski, Chair of the Impact Case Studies sub-committee.
Examples of previous impact cases submitted in REF 2014 are available at impact.ref.ac.uk/casestudies/
The main REF assessment panel welcomes case studies which describe impacts that have provided benefits to one or more areas of the economy, society, culture, public policy and services, health, production, environment, international development or quality of life, whether locally, regionally, nationally or internationally, beyond academia.
Impact includes the reduction or prevention of harm, risk, cost or other negative effects.
An impact case study may describe more than one type of impact arising from a single activity, for example, a new drug can generate both health and economic impact.
We are expected to submit our strongest case studies, regardless of the type of impact they describe.
Impacts will be assessed in terms of their ‘reach and significance’ regardless of the geographic location in which they occurred, whether locally, regionally, nationally or internationally.
The UK funding bodies expect that many impacts will contribute to the economy, society and culture within the UK, but equally value the international contribution of UK research.
Academic impacts on research or the advancement of academic knowledge (whether in the UK or internationally) are excluded.
This contribution to academic research and knowledge is assessed within the ‘outputs’ and ‘environment’ elements of REF.
Each impact case study submission must describe specific impacts that have occurred during the assessment period 1 August 2013 to 31 July 2020 that were underpinned by excellent research undertaken at St George’s.
The underpinning research must have been produced by the researcher at St George’s during the period 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2020.
Guidance for impact case study authors on provide evidence in an impact case study:
The Impact Case Studies Sub-Committee formed in the academic year 2018-19.
The sub-committee will support the REF Steering Executive in impact.
The REF 2021 Impact Case Studies sub-committee is comprised of:
The environment statement will make up 15% of St George’s overall quality profile rating and will be assessed against vitality and sustainability.
In the context of REF, vitality is understood as the extent to which the institution promotes and facilitates a culture of collaboration, and enables and actualises impact within research units, within a thriving and inclusive research culture.
This should be based on a clearly articulated and overarching strategy for research and enabling its impact across the institution.
Relevant factors in assessment are: interdisciplinary research, national and international collaboration, and engagement with appropriate networks both nationally and internationally.
In the context of REF, sustainability is understood as the extent to which the research environment ensures the future health, diversity, wellbeing and wider contribution of the institution and its research units, including investment in people and in infrastructure.
Relevant factors for assessment are the extent of cross-disciplinary working and research partnerships, external partnerships more broadly and contributing to and achieving positive change within national research capacity.
The environment statement covers the following areas:
St George’s environment statement is being coordinated by Louise Phillips, Head of Research Funding, Joint Research and Enterprise Services.
One of the key ways of supporting equality and diversity in Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 is to recognise the effect that equality-related circumstances can have on an individual researcher’s productivity.
Both St George’s and the UK funding bodies are committed to supporting and promoting equality and diversity in research careers.
As part of this commitment, St George’s has established a process in line with REF guidance through which staff can voluntarily declare their individual circumstances ahead of the REF submission (due by 31 March 2021).
This enables us to take these into account in preparing our submission as well as to consider support for our staff.
Staff who feel that individual circumstances may apply to them and who wish to submit their circumstances form will be able to do so at any time in the lead up to the REF submission.
This is a voluntary process open to staff who are eligible for the REF 2021.
All eligible staff were notified of their eligibility by email in early November 2019 by Professor Jodi Lindsay, Research Director for Cross-Cutting University Themes and Academic Lead for REF.
Information on how to submit this is below.
The outcome of the review of circumstances may lead to the removal of the requirement for the minimum of 1 output (eg journal article) for each member of staff, a unit level reduction for the whole output pool, or no reduction in the outputs.
Following this assessment, additional support for individuals will be considered by Liz Grand and Jenny Winters in HR.
All round one applications for staff disclosing personal circumstances must be submitted to Liz Grand, Diversity and Inclusion Adviser, HR, by 6 January 2020 to ensure due consideration by the time that St George’s makes its submission about staff circumstances to REF in March 2020.
All round two applications for staff disclosing personal circumstances must be submitted to Liz Grand, Diversity and Inclusion Adviser, HR, by 20 January 2021 to ensure due consideration by the time that St George’s makes its submission about staff circumstances to REF in March 2021.
Disclosure forms may be submitted and revised after this date up to the REF submission deadline.
If you have any questions about disclosing individual staff circumstances for REF, contact Liz Grand, Diversity and Inclusion Adviser, HR.
If you have any questions about St George’s submission to the REF, contact Professor Jodi Lindsay, Research Director for Cross-Cutting University Themes, or Yvonne Castle, Research Strategy and Development Manager, JRES.
Download the full guidance and form:
REF 2021 Declaration of Individual Staff Circumstances guidance (Word)
REF 2021 Declaration of Individual Staff Circumstances guidance (PDF)
REF 2021 Declaration of Individual Staff Circumstances form (Word)
The REF Steering Executive was formed in January 2018 to guide the process for SGUL’s submission for REF 2021.
The REF Steering Executive, which is a subset of the Research Committee, is chaired by Professor Jodi Lindsay, Director of Cross Cutting Themes (formerly the Academic Lead for REF).
The REF Steering Executive delivers the Code of Practice and provides leadership to enable a successful REF 2021 submission.
Any questions about St George's submission to REF 2021, please direct them to Professor Jodi Lindsay , Director of Cross Cutting Themes (Academic Lead for REF 2021), or Yvonne Castle , Research Strategy and Development Manager, Joint Research and Enterprise Services.
Any questions regarding the impact case studies, please contact Professor Juan Carlos Kaski , Chair of the REF Impact Case Studies Subcommittee.
Any questions regarding the environment statement, please contact Louise Phillips , Head of Research Funding, Joint Research and Enterprise Services.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-education-centres/centre-for-innovation-and-development-in-education/inclusive-education/home.aspx:
An Inclusive Education Framework has been designed so that inclusive education becomes standard practice
An Inclusive Education Course Action Planner will feature as part of Annual Programme Review Monitoring  (APRM)
Find out about how Student Advisors may make your curriculum more inclusive
Here are some resources that you can use in your teams for discussion and training
Here we will feature the latest stories and developments in relation to inclusive education.
Meet the 2023/24 Equity Champions
St George's University aims to recognize, value, and build on the varied and diverse cultures, education, and wider experiences of you .
It is committed to ensuring that Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) is a golden thread through all activities whether part of formal taught programmes or wider extra-curricular experiences.
The university is committed also to collaborative partnerships and co-production where students are involved in inclusive design.
It recognises that there is much work to be done to align words, actions, and deeds to achieve real change, so the framework has institutional level and course level actions.
It has also been informed by Professional Service and Regulatory Body guidance
The Inclusive Education Framework aims to bring together all the valuable work being undertaken in the university and our practice partners to support our students before, during and after their time at St Georges.
It includes:
The Framework is intended to be flexible and responsive, so that it can incorporate new concerns as they evolve, and we can communicate progress to students, staff and partners throughout the journey.
If you have any questions or wish to find out more, please get in touch with David Ross, Lecturer in Inclusive Education or studentadvisors@sgul.ac.uk .
Feedback Form
If you have feedback about the Inclusive Education Framework or any ideas around how to take it forward, please get in touch using this link: Inclusive Education Framework (office.com .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-experience/home.aspx:
Our approach to enhancing your experience at St George’s is both holistic and inclusive in its nature and scope.
It includes academic support, student services and estates.
You can expect excellence in teaching, and proactive pastoral support that is responsive to a diverse range of student needs.
We will welcome you into our St George’s community on your first day with us and take you with us on the journey to completing your programme of study.
You can co-create your experience with university staff by conducting enhancement projects facilitated by Student Staff Partnership Grants.
We bring students and staff together to collaborate in their shared areas of interest through education community events.
We value and actively encourage all students to share their experiences, perceptions and ideas of how we might improve
We’ve launched our Did You Know?
campaign to showcase the broad range of opportunities, resources, activities and achievements across St George’s.
A varied extracurricular programme that brings science, medicine and healthcare into dialogue with the arts, humanities, and enterprise.
The Big Read is a series of events bringing students and staff together through shared reading experiences around a set text.
Staff and students of St George’s sharing perspectives on teaching, learning and life in higher education.
Explore our extracurricular modules to gain additional credit, enrich your learning and enhance your CV.
Student-staff partnership grants provides funding for small collaborative projects, run jointly by students and staff.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses/develop-a-short-course/home.aspx:
The Professional Education Centre has a number of short courses in its portfolio that allows attendees undertake a flexible and blended approach to learning (online, face to face or blended).
By developing a short course, Course Leads are able to deliver a course they feel passionate about in way that suits the content; Conferences, MOOCs or Credit bearing modules.
Course Leads will gain a wealth of experience in leading a course and will be able to trial any ideas before committing or becoming involved to a long term programme.
For other benefits on running a course, please do contact pec@sgul.ac.uk for more information.
Submit your proposal using the forms below.
Short Courses Events Conferences Financial Estimates Form 2025 (Excel)
Please note, we advise all course leads that a lead in time of at least six months before a course is scheduled to run is needed for non-credit bearing courses and at least one year for credit bearing courses.
Send your completed forms to the Professional Education team .
The central institutional Educational Enterprise Committee will be responsible for approving all new proposals, whilst the team will be to shape and guide proposals to be passed up to the central Educational Enterprise Committee as the decision-making group.
Committee dates: 8 September .
Forms should be completed and submitted at least one week before the committee is due to meet.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/library/teaching-staff/home.aspx:
The liaison librarian team support all students and staff and are your point of contact between your course or institute and the library.
This short guide will help you create and manage your resource lists in Canvas.
We offer access to a wide range of information resources to support your learning, teaching, research and practice.
Find out more about our research enquiries desk, the library helpdesk, our liaison librarians, the Academic Success Centre, and more.
This short guide defines what referencing is, citation and reference lists, the different referencing styles and reference management systems.
Here you'll find copyright guidance for students, teachers, researchers and NHS staff.
Learn more about the digital technology we utilise across the university and how to get support.
Find out how we can make scanned copies of book chapters or journal articles for your students.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-experience/student-staff-partnership-grants.aspx:
The application window for the Student-Staff Partnership Grants 2025-2026 is now open!
The Student-Staff Partnership Grants (SSPG) scheme is intended to support projects led jointly by students and staff that make a positive impact on education across City St George’s School of Health and Medical Sciences.
It is aligned with the legacy St George’s Inclusive Education Framework, Student Advisor Scheme and legacy City Inclusive Practice Framework .
All enrolled students and staff of City St George’s School of Health and Medical Sciences (academic, professional services, research, etc) are eligible to apply for a grant.
Projects should be undertaken before students complete their course or graduate.
Collaborations across more than one academic programme or area of the City St George’s School of Health and Medical Sciences are encouraged, and all initiatives should demonstrate relevance or applicability beyond the local context in which they may be developed.
Grants of up to £1200 are awarded to be used within a single financial year ( August 2025 to 31st July 2026).
They should be used to pay student partners for their work as well for other costs.
All awarded projects are expected to present their work in progress and project outputs at an Education Ideas Hub event promoting shared learning across the School and wider University.
Details of previous SSPG projects can be found on the Education Ideas Hub page .
Recipients will also be required to submit a mid-term progress report and a final report by the specified deadlines to ensure accountability and transparency.
Deadline for applications: 5 PM, Monday 21st July 2025.
Download the Application-Form-SSPG-2025-26.
here.
Please refer to the Guidance section below to complete the form.
An example is also provided for your reference: [Example] Application-Form-SSPG.
Completed application forms should be uploaded to here in Word format.
Due to a technical issue, students and staff from Legacy City are kindly requested to submit their applications via email to StudentPartnership@sgul.ac.uk, and please ensure to copy in lliu@sgul.ac.uk.
We appreciate your understanding and cooperation.
For projects in 2025-2026, the awarding panel aims to award up to twelve grants.
The awarding panel will look at the extent to which each application:
Projects Should NOT :
Please verify if similar projects are currently running or have been previously conducted at the university.
We encourage applicants to connect with these projects to build upon existing work.
When developing your project plan, you should consider how you will address any ethical implications and incorporate this into your timeline.
If your project requires ethical review, you will need to initiate this process as soon as possible after your project is accepted for funding.
Please keep the Student Partnership Officer informed about progress with the ethical review of your project by emailing Studentpartnership@sgul.ac.uk
If you have any questions or enquiries about the ethical review process as applied to an SSPG project, email sgulrec@sgul.ac.uk .
As having a call for applications in Spring may make it difficult for new starting students to participate, staff can propose a project with a student lead to be confirmed later in the year.
If applying in this manner, staff leads are expected to describe in detail the process by which they will recruit student leads and the date by which they expect to have a student lead confirmed (this date should not be later than mid-November).
If funding is awarded to such a project and the student lead is not confirmed by this date, then funding may be withdrawn.
Payments to Student Lead:
The student lead of an SSPG team should be paid the London living wage for the time spent on the SSPG.
Applications should include the estimated time and payments required in the requested budget.
Incentives for Participants in Project Activities or Tasks:
Teams are responsible for deciding any incentives for participants in their projects and including these in their itemised budget.
If direct payments are used, they should match the London living wage.
If vouchers are used (e.g., for on-campus venues, books, etc.), the team can determine the appropriate value based on the activity or task.
Other Costs:
Please specify other anticipated costs.
For example, you may wish to plan for disseminating your work within City St George’s School of Health and Medical Sciences and can apply for funds to support this.
All applications will be reviewed by a Panel of approximately 10 individuals including students and senior staff members with extensive experience in either professional practice or the field of Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion, using a rubric.
Members of the 2025-26 grant awarding panel are to be confirmed.
The application process will consist of two stages, including an initial review and a revision stage during which applicants may be asked to make amendments before final approval and funding is granted.
The grant awarding panel will use the SSPG25-26 Rubric to assess applications and arrive at decisions.
The selection process involves one or two stages: Stage One : Approximately four weeks after the deadline date, you will hear of one of the following outcomes:
Stage Two: For projects that require amendments only
Approximately one weeks after submitting your amended application and addressing each item raised by the Panel, you will hear of one of the following outcomes:
Stage
Start date – end date
Duration (weeks)
Applications Deadline
21 July 25
N/A
Selection - Stage 1 (Award, reject or request revisions)
21 July 25 – 11 August 25
3 weeks
Selection - Stage 1 resubmission of revised applications
11 August 25 - 08 September 25
Selection - Stage 2 (review revised applications) Final decisions
08 September 25 – 15 September 25
1 weeks
Allocate  budget code & Right to Work check & EIH schedule
15 September 25 – 29 September 25
2 weeks
SSPGs carried out*
29 September 25 – 31 August 26
Approx.
46 weeks
Deadline - expenses end date
31-July-26
/
Deadline - SSPGs end date
31-August-26
Explore the ongoing Student-Staff Partnership Grant projects for 2024 to 2025 by clicking on the items below.
Current approaches to teaching about health inequalities are diverse in content and approach.
This project aims to develop and deliver an investigation into healthcare students’ perspectives on health inequalities teaching on all health care programmes within St George’s School of Health and Medical Sciences (City St George’s University).
The identification of student preferences for effective delivery of this teaching, then can be used when reviewing curriculums and developing new teaching resources.
Education on health inequalities, social determinants of health and inclusion health are rightly increasingly being prioritised by Royal Colleges and Universities.
They are extremely relevant to all healthcare workers in London, nationally and globally and we hope our evaluation work can be used for educators with a wide variety of backgrounds to include a student voice when developing their teaching on inequalities.
St George’s has embedded several Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET) tools, including the Student Online Teaching Survey and the Student Experience Survey, to collect, monitor and improve the performance of courses and teachers.
The role of in-course formative SET in the enhancement of educational practice is undermined, however, by low response rates and the absence of actionable student feedback received.
Staff can also lack knowledge about tools they can use to elicit feedback from students as part of teaching and learning.
This student-staff project aims to address this issue, by exploring in-course SET from the student and staff perspective.
The project will develop a multimodal toolkit that will enable staff to use SET to develop student metacognition (the awareness and control of how they learn) and evaluative judgement (their ability to assess the quality of their own and others’ performance) as well as develop their own evaluative capabilities as educators.
St George’s University of London has a well renowned widening participation (WP) programme which successfully increases access to university for students from socioeconomically deprived backgrounds.
While there have been many national interventions to increase access to university, there is evidence to suggest a discrepancy in outcomes during university studies between WP and non-WP students.
The literature suggests difficulties follow WP students into their medical school journeys, including differential attainment.
Unfamiliarity with higher education and lack of representation of WP staff in faculty can deter help-seeking behaviour and result in a lack of trust.
Furthermore, students from different backgrounds can find their identity conflicted upon entering medical school (Krstic et al 2021).
This project therefore aims to corroborate the experiences of SGUL WP medical students with the literature and collaboratively develop student-led solutions leaving a legacy to support existing and future WP students to thrive.
Bioinformatics software tools are commonly used in science practice and education, but there is limited knowledge on how students with specific learning differences (SpLDs) including ADHD, navigate these tools, the obstacles they face and how this impacts their learning and achievement.
We will recruit a specific spectrum of undergraduate and postgraduate science students to participate in workshops and usability testing to explore and capture experiences.
This project will provide an opportunity for greater awareness amongst staff about inclusivity and exclusivity when designing learning tasks.
By the end of this project, we will: i) have a better understanding of digital accessibility barriers for students with SpLDs and ADHD when using specialist bioinformatics software; ii) increase awareness across UG and PG programme teams about challenges faced by neurodivergent students; iii) highlight findings and make recommendations for science programmes and inclusive education workstreams for embedding across relevant programmes to drive effective change.
Whilst there have been huge advances in the treatment of HIV over the last few decades, attitudes towards people living with HIV, particularly from HCPs, have been slow to follow.
1 in 7 people living with HIV worry about being treated differently by HCPs, 1 in 11 have heard staff gossiping about their status and 1 in 10 have said they have been refused healthcare.
For this to improve, we need to help improve the knowledge and confidence of HCPs early on.
Within the MBBS programme and other patient-facing courses such as Physician Associate Studies and Paramedic Science, anecdotally, tutors may lack confidence discussing issues around HIV and HIV-related stigma, and it disproportionately falls to LGBTQI+ students with greater knowledge to answer questions from their peers.
To tackle this, we propose 3 main steps:
Many students going into the clinical sphere find it difficult to navigate the landscape as they try to understand what their role is in the team while also trying to learn in this busy environment.
The importance of professionalism is often lost within the hidden curriculum with many students reporting they feel unwanted or ignored.
This project will provide a bridge to understanding how the clinical environment works, identifying their role and opportunities while on the ward but also develop teamwork that is fundamental to future healthcare workers applicable across courses.
Virtual ward rounds and escape rooms (ER) will provide a safe space for learning while also being interactive.
Professionalism will be embedded in a more formal way ensuring future doctors are equipped with necessary skills.
The T-year foundation module will be the test bed making this an interactive start to clinical years and assessed formatively.
Cases of homelessness have soared over the last decade.
Illness often precipitates and is also a consequence of homelessness.
An upward trend has been observed in health services with emergency department visits trebling between 2010-2018 (BMA, 2019).
Homeless people experience the starkest health inequalities leading to poorer health outcomes and a life expectancy in their 40s, highlighting the urgency for equitable and compassionate healthcare.
New graduates from clinical courses, however, have reported feeling unprepared and uninformed to care for homeless people owing to a lack of ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​engagement at university (Shackshaft, 2024).
Literature has found that creative interventions can improve students’ engagement and empathy (Rezaei et al., 2023) and increase agency for homeless people (Shaw, 2019).
SGUL healthcare courses currently have limited opportunities for engagement with homelessness.
Our project will identify barriers to engaging with homeless people and ideas to improve engagement through surveys and a focus group.
Furthermore, a collaborative art workshop will explore ways in which creative processes can elicit valuable insights into the lived experience of homelessness and healthcare.
Inclusivity is a key priority at St George’s and much has been done to make teaching inclusive.
This project will explore the impact of that work through the felt experience of inclusion.
Experience Based Co-design (EBCD) is a validated quality improvement method linking qualitative enquiry with design thinking to produce sustainable changes.
Students acting as peer researchers will conduct 6 interviews with students and 2 with faculty on their experiences of inclusive teaching.
Touch points from the interviews will be used to create a catalyst film.
After seeing the film small co-design groups (of staff and students) will create a toolkit and/or other outputs.
These will be applicable across the University and the film and reflective questions could form an important part of staff induction to support an inclusive culture.
This project will provide both valuable evaluation data and innovative practical tools to support inclusivity at St George’s.
The world is facing a climate catastrophe, necessitating immediate action to reduce carbon footprints.
SGUL has set a target to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.
Research laboratories significantly contribute to the university's carbon footprint, using 10x more energy per square metre than office spaces and producing up to 12x more waste.
Currently, there is no comprehensive sustainability training available for students or staff using laboratory spaces.
This project aims to transform university laboratories into models of sustainability by developingcomprehensive training materials for students and staff, integrating best practices in waste reduction, recycling, energy efficiency, and sustainable sourcing of materials.The project will involve:
Explore the Student-Staff Partnership Grant awarded projects for 2023 to 2024 by clicking on the items below.
Staff Lead: Joanne Morrison
Student Lead: Halia Shah; Nisha Gurung
Project Team: Luke Woodham, Angela Kubacki, Brogan Guest, Mari Siddall Jones
This project hopes to create a ‘one stop’ resource bank for medical staff to be able to easily access when they prepare to communicate with a patient with communication difficulties.
Within the teaching on communication and intellectual disabilities students have access to some resources and different organisations have created a variety of resources.
However, licensing is not clear for all resources and there is not one storage location that is easily accessible.
A former student of St.
George’s, currently practising in a UK hospital,  made contact to request access to visual resources for use with patients as and when required.
Her staff colleagues expressed difficulties in accessing resources.
The team also aware that many existing communication aids have been created for children, and therefore some may not be ethical, relevant or respectful for using with adults.
The purpose of this project is twofold.
Firstly to create an image bank storage for medical students and staff to easily access visual communication aids as required.
These are existing resources, identified by students and staff as useful in practice.
Secondly, the project will address ‘images of need’ – resources staff and students identify as a communication aid they would like to have but does not already exist.
It is proposed that students could help create and develop ‘images of need’.
Two such requirements have already been identified for using with adults with communication needs:
While the focus of this project is for people with neuro-disabilities (intellectual, autism, ADHD), the image bank resources can also be of use for patients affected by other conditions, e.g.
brain injury, stroke and dementia.
Outputs of this project include:
Staff Lead: Angela Kubacki
Student Lead: Charles Abracia; Abhay Lutchman-Deelah; Connor Holmes; Sneka Suthaharan
Project Team: Ioana Enany, Baba Sheba
Promoting, protecting and preserving academic integrity is the responsibility of every member of the St George’s community.
We must consider how we can share this responsibility across faculty, staff and students and aim to cultivate a campus-wide culture committed to trust, honesty and academic integrity.
With the launch of our new procedure for Academic Integrity and our guidance on ethical use of AI in assessment (ChatGPT), this project wants to give students genuine responsibility in a collaborative effort with faculty members to foster and maintain this commitment.
Our proposal is to establish and maintain a community of Student Academic Integrity Champions (SAICs), to work with our staff in SC&C and CTiE to promote academic integrity to their peers and play an integral role in the dissemination and communication of core academic integrity messages through student-created, innovative videos and infographics for Canvas, our webpages and social media.
We want to get all staff and students on board with our new procedures and guidance.
The deliverables of this project are ) a community of SAICs who are recognised for their knowledge and understanding of our academic integrity procedures and 2)  a series of inclusive and accessible student voice videos and an online workshop(s) to promote academic integrity and support the clear dissemination of our academic integrity policies and procedures at St George’s to all staff and students.
Staff Lead: Julie Hendry
Student Lead: Amin Haybatollahi
Project Team: Anthony Albert, Faiza Choudbury, Ben Corbridge, Tyler Klewin, Mansimran Matharu
Most teaching sessions at high education institutions are delivered through lectures, where a subject expert teaches course content in a large group setting.
However, student feedback at SGUL indicates that lecture quality is often variable, significantly impacting learning and experience.
The aim of this student-staff project is to explore what makes an effective lecture from student and staff perspectives.
Alongside addressing practical solutions to increase lecture quality, this study explore student and staff perceptions of the personal values and attributes individual lecturers bring to sessions to enable and enhance effective learning and teaching.
We intend to survey all SGUL students, and staff involved in teaching.
Specific data from a mixed method questionnaire (qualitative and quantitative questions) will be further explored through a focus group with participant volunteers.
Participants selected will reflect the full range of students within SGUL as much as possible.
This method will allow a richness of exploration of key areas revealed from the questionnaire.
Findings will be disseminated to all students, staff, and courses, and presented at internal educational events and national and international conferences.
We envisage that project legacy will be a better understanding of what makes an effective lecture, generation of a toolkit to better train and support staff, and empowering students with a framework to critic and feedback lecture quality to improve their learning and experience.
Staff Lead: Katie Scott
Student Lead: Priya Chakraborty
Project Team: Judith Ibison, Rida Khan
The project aims to develop and deliver an online educational primary care grand round programme for all healthcare students at St George’s University, and to offer the programme externally to students from other London medical and healthcare schools.
The main objective of the programme is to inspire interest in primary care careers and provide insight into the variety of careers and academic careers in primary care.
The programme enhances the academic offering for students, providing them with additional knowledge and expertise in clinical primary care, and academic skills including research, quality improvement and presentation skills.
Although students may have the opportunity to attend secondary care grand rounds, there is currently no offering of a primary care grand round for students to attend at St George’s University.
We are also not aware of this being offered within other London medical schools.
We hope this programme will contribute positively to the educational experience offered to students, particularly those with an interest in primary care who currently have limited opportunities to learn about academic primary care.
Staff Lead: David Gillott
Student Lead: Millie Shannon
Project Team: Holly Hayden
Endometriosis is one of the most common gynaecological conditions in the UK, affecting approximately 1 in 10 people assigned female at birth.
This condition can be debilitating and made even harder to deal with due to the stigma and lack of awareness surrounding it.
Our project aims to equip the St George’s community with knowledge surrounding the condition to allow current and future healthcare professionals to recognise and treat the disease in a more efficient and holistic way.
In addition to this we hope that it will empower those who may be affected to reach out for support and allow an open dialogue for key issues in women’s health to be created.
We will produce a series of videos and social media posts for Endometriosis Awareness Month which is March 2024 that will educate about endometriosis and menstruation but also share real life experiences of what living with this chronic disease is like as well as clinicians’ experiences of treating it.
We will be interviewing focus groups to inform the contents of these videos.
All resources produced will be available to be viewed at any time after they are published on social media, various university outputs, a purpose-built website and CANVAS.
A short MOOC will be produced for educational purposes.
Staff Lead: Thushari Welikala
Student Lead: Khushi Gupta
Project Team: Beck Hickman, Rekka Kandasamy, Philippa Guppy, Katie Pavoni, Anthony Albert, Yasmeen Malik, Cynthia Simon, Brogan Guest.
Healthcare students in UK higher education come from diverse social-cultural backgrounds and can identify themselves differently based on their sexuality, gender identity, age etc.
As evidenced by research, students identifying as ‘different’ are treated differently within universities <1> and SGUL student feedback indicates that discrimination and multiple types of ‘isms’ impact negatively on their learning experience.
Stories of discrimination within work placements are widely shared within St George’s but coloniality, the root cause of discriminatory practices, has seldom (or never) been examined.
This study intends to explore how coloniality within work placements affect students’ learning experience within and across six programmes/courses at St George’s.
Identifying coloniality embedded in work placements through methodologies that are aimed at ‘measuring’ students’ experience will be difficult since coloniality is felt and lived by individual students in very subtle ways.
Therefore, this study will use creative enquiry <2> (the exploration of lived experience through the arts) to uncover coloniality that is embedded within work placements.
Findings will be disseminated to all SGUL programmes and presented at internal and external educational events and conferences.
Legacy will include decolonising student’s experience within work placements and beyond by developing a number of resources (creative work) and a framework for decolonising learning (199).
<1> Nassr Namaa,b, Paul MacPhersonb,c, Margaret Sampsondand Hugh J.
McMillan, ‘Medical Students’perception of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender(LGBT) Discrimination in Their Learning Environment and Their Self-Reportedcomfort Level for Caring for LGBT Patients: A Survey Study.MEDICAL EDUCATION ONLINE, 2017VOL.
22, 1368850.Nassr Namaa,b, Paul MacPhersonb,c, Margaret Sampsondand Hugh J.
McMillan’, n.d.
<2> ‘Montuori, A.
(2006).
The Quest for a New Education: From Oppositional Identities to Creative Inquiry.
ReVision, 28(3), 4–20.’, n.d.
Staff Lead: Jane Cronin-Davis
Student Lead: Farah Ahmed
Project Team: Julia Hutchinson, Gavin Taylor, Katie Pavoni
Student mental health is nationally recognised as a concern across the university sector.
A student staff survey project by Hamzah Niaz and Jane Cronin-Davis (2020) investigated the mental health of students and services they accessed.
The results of the project identified approximately 50% students who completed the survey reported a mental health problem, with anxiety and depression being most prevalent.
28% of the respondents accessed services related to their mental health at SGUL, university counselling being the most frequently cited service.
Although student did access services within the University.
Many of those who participated in the were reluctant for fear of what might happen in relation to their programme, e.g., possible fitness to practice concerns.
Respondents indicated that they preferred speaking to other students as this seemed less formal and easier, more impartial, and less judgemental.
The university counselling service is extremely important; however, some students could benefit from peer mental health support from other students.
This has been successful in other universities e.g., Warwick.
A feasibility study by Osborn et al (2022) , although not specifically targeted at mental health demonstrated how a peer support model addressed unmet needs of students at a London University.
Staff Lead: Kate Everett-Korn
Student Lead: Jason Tan
The primary aim of this project is to redesign at least one specific assessment for two reasons:• The current assessment could be adequately accomplished through use of generative AI.
This is not desirable for this assessment but is unlikely to be detectable.• The current assessment is an essay as are many other assessments on this specific course; I wish to introduce variety to allow students to develop and demonstrate different skills.Based on anecdotal evidence and feedback from staff and students, our students are sometimes subjected to excessive assessment, with a tendency to heavily rely on conventional essay-style assessments.
I wish to develop an assessment that is more pertinent, contemporary and engaging for the students, whilst still effectively evaluating their knowledge and comprehension.
This endeavour will not only contribute to the broader strategic initiatives being pursued at an institutional level regarding assessment but also serve as a potential pilot programme.
The secondary aim of this project is to allow for general “brain-storming” to generate ideas for a varied suite of assessment types which could be introduced over time across various courses.
We will disseminate this to other staff via fora such as Programmes Forum and Education Hub.
Learn about some of the Student-Staff Partnership Grants awarded projects from 2022 to 2023 by clicking the items below.
Staff lead: Judit Csere (Professional services, JRES, Enterprise and Innovation Office)
Student lead: Holly Parker (Paramedic Science BSc)
Project team: Jack Stallard  (Paramedic Science BSc)
Verbal abuse when the abuser intends to humiliate, intimidate, and denigrate the victim is detrimental for mental health and dramatically degrades psychological safety, however, it is prevalent in higher education settings and workplaces, including St George`s.
A barrier to decreasing verbal abuse in social settings is the lack of awareness of what is classified as verbal abuse, and how to ask for support.
Our project proposes the development of a card game that presents concise situational case studies regarding verbal abuse on one side, and shows the definition of that type of abuse on the other side, also signposting users to existing support infrastructure at St George`s.
We will collect real-life case studies from students and staff, classify, anonymise and shorten them, and print them to create a playful and attractive card game.
The cards will be tested through user focus groups to assess uptake and effectiveness, and classifications will be reviewed by independent mental health professionals.
Through this game users will be able to self-reflect and quiz each-other in a social setting increasing awareness of what verbal abuse is, and how to ask for help.
We will also plan a highly interactive workshop around using the cards, providing a tool for, equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) related workshops for the student union and professional services.
Through this project we aim to increase better awareness about verbal abuse, and increased awareness of already available support services at St George`s.
We believe that this project has the potential to improve psychological safety, promote positive workplace culture, and improved EDI at St George`s.
If the project is successful at St George`s, next steps to increase impact will include digitalisation and dissemination of the tool in other higher education institutes.
Staff lead: Emma-Marie Fry (Careers Service)
Student lead: Diyana Anthony (Clinical Pharmacology)
Project team: Gemma Garrett (Careers Group), Julie Hendry (Associate Dean Student Outcomes)
The aim of this project is to shape and implement the 2023 St George’s Careers Week to ensure it meets the needs of and engages as many students across the institution as possible.
Careers Week is an opportunity to bring together students from across different academic disciplines and year groups to network and learn from each other and support our students in their career and employability development.
Previous Careers Weeks have comprised a mix of activities, from a series of alumni profile videos to alumni panels, employer-led sessions and careers workshops (see: https://canvas.sgul.ac.uk/courses/130/pages/careers-week ).
Although we aim to design activities based on student needs, attendance and engagement in the activities has varied.
We are therefore keen to design activities to engage and support as many students as possible, by:
The main output will be the 2023 Careers Week activities.
Legacy outputs project will depend on the exact nature of these (to be informed by the scoping stage of this project), but will likely include videos, recordings, online profiles or other resources that can be shared with current students, recent graduates and wider alumni – both to support students and showcase the careers of our alumni.
These will be made available via Canvas and the St George’s website.
The project will also provide further insights into the employability needs of our students and effective channels for communicating the full range of careers support we have available.
Staff lead: Brogan Guest (MPAS)
Student lead: TBC
Project team: Beck Hickman (MPAS), Vasa Gnanapragasam (MPAS), Chandran Louis (MPAS Chief Examiner), Tripti Chakraborty (MPAS Clinical Placement Lead), Ban Haider (Senior Lecturer in Primary Care, MBBS)
Clinical students are often paired with supervisors on clinical placements.
These placements are an opportunity to practice skills they are learning in the classroom first-hand and apply their learning.
Clinical placement supervisors also provide individual teaching.
In the PA programme, PA students are paired with a general practice (GP) clinical supervisor and spend one day per week with them in the first year of the course.
In the MBBS programme, in the T-year and F-year students complete a clinical attachment in GP for a 5-week block.
Students are randomly assigned GP supervisors based on location requests.
We hypothesise that the identified genders of students and supervisors may affect the quantity and quality of the teaching in both urology and gynaecology, specifically in intimate examinations.
For example, do male-identified students paired with male-identified supervisors learn as much about breast examinations, hormone replacement therapy, and contraception, and practice as many cervical smears as male or female-identified students with female-identified supervisors?
This project aims to understand the impact that gender of both students and supervisors has (if any) on quantity and quality of urology and gynaecology teaching in clinical placements.
If there is a disparity, we aim to quantify how this affects examination scores and confidence with clinical skills in these specialties.
Understanding this impact will allow communication of this disparity to GP placements, who may make adjustments to address this.
Changes to the curriculum could also be adopted to ensure parity across all students in their knowledge and skills surrounding gynaecologic and urologic specialties, regardless of the gender of their clinical supervisor.
Staff lead: Peter Whincup
Student lead: Will Nash, MBBS
Project team: Miranda Mindlin, (Population Health Research Institute), Umar Chaudhry (Population Health Research Institute),  Judith Ibison (Institute of Biomedical Education), Jonathan De Oliveira, (MBBS), Dhruv Gupta, (MBBS), Julia He (MBBS), Emily Rasmussen-Arda (MBBS), Ananya Sood (MBBS)
The climate and ecosystem crisis is the greatest threat to human health and is increasingly affecting and being affected by health and health systems.
Trainee health professionals need to be informed of the issues and to act to address them in clinical practice.
The World Health Organization promotes environmentally sustainable health systems and encourages health care workers to become agents of change within health systems.
The General Medical Council now advocates education on the principles of sustainable health care.
For the first time in 2022-23, there will be a dedicated teaching session on sustainable health care in the SGUL MBBS curriculum (Year 1 and T years).
However, coverage will remain limited and there are several other topic opportunities to enhance learning about sustainable clinical practice throughout the core curriculum.
A student-staff project group will map the MBBS curriculum to identify key topics with strong relevance to the climate crisis across the curriculum (~8 in total) and collaborate with educators on those topics to co-produce teaching materials for use by students and staff in those sessions to enhance learning in sustainable clinical practice through the MBBS curriculum and disseminate it more widely.
Staff lead: Judith Ibison
Student lead: Joy Ferguson, MBBS
Project team: Jackie Driscoll, Jonathan Round, Inny Oninuire(MBBS), Isabel Fernandes (MBBS)
Medical students are taught single patient handovers using tools such as SBAR.
However, the reality of their future work entails multi-patient, time-poor handovers of a cohort (ward, department) at the change of shift.
These handovers must also navigate complex hierarchies, workplace pressures and their role and responsibility during these handovers will change from rotation to rotation as well as with each training stage.
Moreover, shift handover has its own culture which varies between wards and institutions.
SGUL MBBS graduates progressing to the Foundation programme report that they are insecure in shift handover skills despite being involved in handovers in the clinical years (Foundation Doctor survey 2021).
Consultants also commonly describe shift handover as poor, even if not able to state what makes a good handover.
There is currently no teaching on cohort handover in MBBS.
Furthermore, the literature in this area focuses on single patient handover and is often lacking in robust evaluation leading to a lack of evidence on the best methodology for incorporating such teaching in the curriculum.
We hypothesise that much of the learning about handover happens via a hidden curriculum on placement.
The purpose of this SSPG therefore will be to explore the current experiences of handover in SGUL courses among physiotherapy, nursing and medical (we carefully reconsidered the inclusion of paramedic undergraduates, but as they do not handover cohorts of patients (30-80) after providing a period of continuous care (8-12 hours), and to retain the focus of the project we will not include them).We aim to better understand student perception of the nature of clinical patient cohort handovers which would then inform possible routes for improved educational interventions.
Staff lead: Adrian Brown
Student lead: Harpreet Chohan
The VP interviews offer natural language questioning of virtual patients via a Web app.
The app gives students the opportunity to practice their interview skills and reinforce their learning from GP attachments.
The project develops and “trains” virtual patients using neural network software https://patientinterview.pythonanywhere.com/
Additional virtual patients will be developed and metrics assessed.
The resource may also provide a platform for other educators to use and an opportunity for publication of the results.
Learn about some of the Student-Staff Partnership Grants awarded projects from 2021 to 2022 by clicking the items below.
Team leads: Rosie MacLachlan, Tamari-Rose Nyakunengwa
Team: George Hadjiyiannakis, Chantal Salira, Student Parents and Carers Empowered (SPACE) Society
We propose a student-staff partnership model wherein we can work towards supporting childcare needs for staff and student with childcare responsibilities with the aim of supporting gender equality at George’s and fostering a healthy working environment for all.
We identified the need for this when conducting interviews as part of a four-part video series entitled 'International Women's Week 2021'.
We spoke with notable students and staff to gain accounts on their experiences as women in leadership and the work they felt still needed to be done both institutionally and socially for gender equality.
Through our research, we aim to suggest an approach that couldbe implemented by the University in a way that can be successfully maintained for posterity.
We envision establishing a safe, clean space within or proximal to the University building wherein the children of students and staff can be supervised, cared for, and encouraged to play at a more affordable price point and in close proximity.
This holistic approach to supporting gender equality will ensure that St.
George’s University of London fosters a healthy working environment for all, within which all service users can thrive in their academic and industrial endeavours.
Through the success of this project, we simultaneously hope to educate our peers about the importance of incorporating positive actions and attitudes surrounding the advancement of gender equality into their everyday lives.
Team leads: Claire Spiller, Jared Bhaskar
Team: Kevin Hayes, Nicola Buxton
This project builds on the findings of a previous student-staff collaboration (the Education Enhancement project) works to target a desire for greater transparency of faculty assessment practices, student empowerment through assessment literacy and most importantly, fostering trust through a shared understanding of assessment.
We propose that by using ‘assessment as learning’, we can improve Single Best Answer (SBA) question assessment literacy to both instill a greater student confidence in these assessments and be empowered to develop peer-led resources including a formative assessment bank.
Team leads: Shehla Baig, Yuti Khare, James Sullivan-McHale
Team: Roaa Al-bedaery, Pedro Elston
St George’s medical students encounter patient narratives on a weekly basis in the PBL (problem-based learning) and CBL (case based learning) cases in the clinical science years.
In the past, in many cases these narratives were written without consciousness of the attitudes towards inclusion they might evoke.
The emotions and attitudes that these stories elicit in students were part of the hidden curriculum.
From 2019, we have worked with students to change problematic case narratives, promoting inclusivity throughout the menu of cases, and to extend the reach of the taught curriculum to keep abreast of social change.
We have promoted inclusive narratives more widely by providing learning resources and support for new case writers.
The first module of MBBS 5 has been transformed to show narratives that represent the diversity of the patient and healthcare community, including featuring more health professionals from the health care team.
This is  a qualitative study with MBBS 5 Year 1 to see if these narratives are eliciting in students the sense of being part of an inclusive, multi-professional community at the start of their time with us, or whether further work needs to be done regarding our strategy.
The team presented this project at the Education Ideas Hub session on 30 March 2022
Team leads: Hannah Cock, Ellie Corkerry
Team: Kevin Hayes, Katie Perkins, Kajal Patel, Lola Arowoshola, Zhenya (Yevgnia) Nerukh
MBBS Course Director and MBBS5 P year student Ellie will outline how this project aims to improve student assessment literacy and experience as well as support students who have failed  assessments with their decision making  and navigation of their options.
The final  product will be based on student  personal experiences and staff expertise  and be presented in written, visual and  interactive formats.
Whilst using  examples from medicine, the work will be applicable to any SGUL course to improve understanding about how to support students in relation to failed assessments and guide the academic  staff who advise them.
Team leads: Shehla Baig, Naireen Asim, Jonathan De Oliveira, Connor Togher
Team: Roaa Al-bedaery
From 2024, all UK medical students will have to pass the Medical Licensing Assessment (MLA) to graduate.
In the US, this has resulted in a parallel curriculum, whereby strategic preparation using commercial resources are favoured over engaging in the intended curriculum, which   focuses more broadly on the professional capabilities of students.
Such professional capabilities are the hallmark of the SGUL curriculum, with Final year particularly important for readiness for foundation practice.
SGUL is embarking on an ambitious win-win approach to this, with its own intrinsic curriculum objectives, teaching and learning resources being clearly organised and aligned to the MLA in a curriculum management system, obviating the need for a parallel curriculum.
We will work with students to understand their assessment preparation behaviours and design the system with this in mind.
The project will be qualitative in nature, with some purposive sampling to ensure a diversity of students are represented, and some quantitative work once the system is launched.
The legacy for SGUL will be enhanced student trust and engagement in the curriculum, and a successful outcome for our students in the MLA.
As a project of national interest, we expect other medical schools will be keenly watching the outcome of our efforts.
Team leads: Claire Spiller, Anna Curtis
Team: Katherine Taylor
The transition to workplace learning in the clinical environment can be challenging for the healthcare student and involves negotiating environmental, psychological, social and educational shifts.
This can have a significant impact on the students’ experience in this environment, and on their ability to learn effectively.
Previous work with MBBS students had identified ‘hidden curriculum’ contexts: the language, equipment, people and processes, often assumed as tacit knowledge by those designing teaching, but which presented a barrier to students feeling comfortable in this learning space.
The project aims to build on our understanding of common student ‘hidden curriculum’ challenges; and to develop new resources to help to support these challenges for cross-course use.
Team leads : Dr.
Penelope Murphy, Senior Lecturer in Physiology, Pierre George Kostanteen, MBBS5 Year 2.
Team : Dr.
Olga Rodriguez Falcon, Lecturer in Learning Development, CIDE, Arvand Vahedi, MBBS5 Year 2, Sai Selvarajan, Biomedical Science Year 2.
This project investigates students’ independent learning and the types of online resources they engage with.
The aim is to review the potential for integrating alternative online resources into Canvas to be accessible by students across St George's.
The team will blend quantitative and qualitative methods, including surveys, focus groups and diary studies to address questions about how students study independently of the formally provided/recommended, what online tools/resource they use, as well as staff's perspectives on and recommendations for online resources.
Based on study findings, the team will produce a report and create a Canvas module with resources made available for the entire St George's community.
Team leads: Dr John Hammond, Associate Professor, Joint Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education, Niko Brenner, BSc Physiotherapy Year 3.
Team: Margot Turner, Senior Lecturer in Diversity and Medical Education, Caspian Priest, MBBS4 Year 3, Amelia Fraser-Dale, MBBS5 Year 2.
This project addresses the limitations in teaching trans-specific healthcare by developing improved teaching resources on transgender healthcare and inclusion at SGUL.
An interdisciplinary group of students, some of whom are trans themselves, will work to create a range of teaching materials including: trans healthcare information pages for use on CANVAS, interactive learning activities (e.g.
quizzes) and videos of trans-specific healthcare scenarios to facilitate PBL (problem-based learning) discussion.
The content created will be stored on Canvas for future student cohorts, with the potential to be integrated as part of course curriculum.
The overarching aim of the initiative is to improve the access to and quality of healthcare received by transgender individuals by creating a repository of resources and by developing the cultural competence of healthcare students.
Team leads: Angela Kubacki, Head of Clinical Communication, John Ward, MBBS5 F Year
Team: Fiona Cairns, Widening Participation Manager, Naz Hussain, Associate Director of Marketing and Student Recruitment, Dr Laura Byrne, MBBS Admissions Tutor, Sarah Waygood, Senior Lecturer Physiotherapy
Unequal access to medicine to students from lower income backgrounds has been long-highlighted by the Medical Schools Council.
The project aims to bring insights to address this issue by focusing on two questions: 1.
to what extent do students from lower income backgrounds recognise Medicine as a potential career path?
to what extent do applicants from lower income backgrounds have access to resources and information regarding preparing for interviews.
The team intend to analyse subgroup differences, develop understanding of applicants' perceptions of access to Medicine and consider the impact of remote MMIs on equality and diversity.
The team aims to establish a permanent student-staff working group that will continue the work of improving access to information and resources for all applicants, in particular those from disadvantages backgrounds.
Team leads: Aileen O’Brien, Dean for Students, Daniya Khalid, BSc Biomedical Science Year 3, Samia Tajbiha, BSc Biomedical Science Year 2
Team: Dr Darren Bell, Psychiatrist, Dr Izzy Mark, Psychiatrist, Lon Teija, Education & Welfare Support Officer
The aim of the project is to create an enrollable module concentrating on mental health and well-being within St George’s, by providing and signposting all George’s students to reliable and organised wellbeing and welfare information.
Similar to other tools, such as Careers module or Study+, this module would act as an easily accessible, centralised resource repository.
By integating all the resources in one location, the module would raise awareness about available support, simplify students' access to mental health and well-being information and avoid students feeling potentially confused or overwhelmed by the numerous resources made available at St George’s.
To achieve this, the team will use Canvas to design and form the module which will be populated with existing materials as well as original ones created by the team.
The aim is to create this as a continuously updated repository to be used by the entire student body at St George's.
Team leads: Brogan Guest, Lecturer in Physician Associate Studies, Vicky Roebuck, MPAS Year 1
This project seeks to improve communication between clinical SGUL students and patients who do not speak English as their first language.
The study will focus on two main areas: to evaluate the current English as a second language (ESL) teaching materials in St George's clinical programmes and to create and test new resources for improving communication skills.
First, the team will analyse existing material and highlight strengths and areas for improvement in each curriculum.
Then, in collaboration with the communication skills teams at St George's, the team will design simple, effective teaching materials, including videos and infographics, which will be tested through role playing scenarios of taking clinical history.
Students from clinical Programmes will learn from the new teaching materials and will be paired with volunteers from the community who speak English at a basic level.
Their interactions will be recorded, and their feedback will be collected and analysed.
The analysis findings will be used to improve the teaching materials which will then be distributed to clinical departments within St George's to augment ESL teaching.
Team leads : Angela Kubacki, Head of Clinical Communication, Leo Hudson, MBBS4 P Year, Jennifer Collom, MBBS4 P Year
Team : Laura Yalley-Ogunro, Lecturer in Clinical Communication, Hannah Hart, Clinical & Communication Skills Coordinator, The Clinical Communication Team
This project aims to train peer tutors to deliver high quality, relevant and engaging Clinical Communication Skills teaching to medical students.
The initiative has been piloted in the 20/21 Autumn term for MBBS 4 Year 1 students and has already received positive student feedback.
The team will initially recruit P and F year students and open to T   year at a later stage.
Peer tutor training will include facilitating learning with simulated patients, giving feedback and effective facilitation skills.
The team aim to create an open and friendly programme that is flexible to any necessary change alongside continually developing students as teachers.
Olga Rodriguez Falcon, Lecturer in Learning Development, CIDE, Hauwa Hakimi Muhammad, BSc Biomedical Science Year 2.
Team: Dr Ferran Valderrama, Reader in Cancer Cell Biology.
A collaboration between CIDE's staff, teaching staff and students, this Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) initiative aims to facilitate the coordination of online study groups for the Biomedical Science and Physiotherapy Programmes.
Here, Year 2 students will peer-assist Year 1 students.
The groups will provide an informal setting for peer-to-peer support where students can discuss their course and interact with their peers' broad and diverse group.
The goals are to increase Year 1 students' engagement with their course and create a sense of community among the students, especially during the pandemic.
For Year 2 students, who will act as PAL leads, the aims are to support them in enhancing their employability by developing professional facilitation, organization, and teamwork skills.
Team leads: Laura Byrne, MBBS Admissions Tutor, Navandeep Thumber, MBBS4 P Year
Team: Grace Poole, MBBS5 F Year, Naomi Melamed, MBBS4, F Year, Reeja Premjee, MBBS5, Intercalation Year
Each year, a cohort of successful Biomedical Sciences students who have completed their degree join the MBBS course in the third (T) year.
This project seeks to aid in the transfer process by providing online peer-based mentorship and communication skills training.
To this end, the team will first recruit students in P Year to act as mentors for clinical communication skills and will match them with T Year transfer students.
Secondly, the team will create a bank of resources on Canvas, in particular videos of simulated clinical skills focusing on history taking.
This bank will be available to all clinical MBBS students to aid with improving confidence in taking patient histories, and preparing for OSCEs.
The team aims to embed the clinical transfer mentorship program into the MBBS course to ensure continuous quality improvement through annual evaluation and feedback.
Team leads: Dr.
David Gillott, co-head Physiology, senior lecturer, Josephina Price, MBBS4 Year 1
Team: Karima Zitouni, PBL facilitator, Ibrahim Basar, MBBS4 Year 1, Sophie Ridge, MBBS4 Year 1, Tessa Rosendahl, MBBS4 Year 1, Ioannis Nikolaou, MBBS4 Year 1, Henry Stone, MBBS4 Year 1, Sophia Ehsani, MBBS4 Year 1, Megan Wright, MBBS4 Year 1.
The project will explore the different perspectives of St George’s students who have used problem-based-learning (PBL) in two completely different settings.
Using a standardised end-of-module-feedback form launched at the introduction of PBL at St George’s, first-years’ opinions, who have had PBL wholly online over Microsoft Teams during the pandemic will be directly compared to previous first-years taught on-site and in-person at the University.
Drawing themes out that appear in student comments in the forms, as well as comparing students’ ranked scores of different aspects of PBL, the project plans to carry out focus-groups of first-year MBBS4 students to delve deeper into the student perspective.
This project has the capacity to be broadened to other cohorts, relevant to the improvement of small-group learning application at St George’s University as well as other educational institutes.
Team leads: Julie Hendry, Course Director Therapeutic Radiography, Corneliu Cazacu, BSc Therapeutic Radiography Year 2.
Team: Benita Thomas, BSc Therapeutic Radiography Year 2, Charlotte Lam, BSc Therapeutic Radiography Year 1.
During a global pandemic, online learning has been essential to continuing education and training while ensuring safety for teachers and students.
This project aims to analyse how student engagement has been affected by online teaching, whether it can be improved, and what, if any, changes could be implemented for future needs.
The study will explore the main themes of the effects of online learning by conducting focus groups and interviews with volunteer students from all three years of the Therapeutic Radiography undergraduate Programme.
The team aims to highlight how the advantages of online learning could be cultivated in new approaches.
The goal is to enable students and staff to improve remote studying, offering a more caring and compassionate curriculum for students who would benefit from remote learning, such as those caring for a family member, mature students having children or students with a poorer financial situation needing more time off the campus to work.
This project complements the Online Education Framework survey conducted by St George's by providing more qualitative data and insight into the lived experiences of students.
Team leads: Prof.
Peter Whincup, Director of the SGUL Population Health Research Institute, co-chair of the SGUL Environmental Working Group, Yahia El-Tanani, MBBS5 Year 2, Grace Leyland, MBBS5 Year 2
This is a project aimed to improve the sustainability of St George's.
The team will gather St George's community's opinions on what eco-friendly changes should be implemented at the university with a secondary aim to set up an Eco Society.
At the same time, the team will take the first steps towards transforming St George's into a more environmentally-friendly campus through actions to replace existing coffee cups with biodegradable alternative and plastic straws in the SU bar with paper ones.
The team hope that the project's legacy will inspire future sustainability initiatives, through the Eco Society that will be established, through university-led strategies, and through other student-staff partnerships.
Team leads: Angela Kubacki, Head of Clinical Communication, James Sullivan-McHale, MBBS5 Year 2
Team: Aditya Dhiran, MBBS5 Year 2, Nathan McNamara, MBBS5 Year 2, Hussein Abu Rabia, MBBS5 Year 2
This is a pilot study with the aim of enhancing educational output with a specific focus on the role of religion and faith.
We will be running workshops that will aim to teach a number of other MBBS5 2nd year students about two religions each and this will be supplemented by pre-workshop and post-workshop questionnaires.
The questionnaires will consist of clinical scenarios which will require short written answers as well as a series of true/false questions which we will repeat after the workshop.
We will compare the two sets of data and we will draw our conclusions and findings from them.
The aim of this project is to enhance the understanding of religion and faith for the students.
We hope this will help them deal better with clinical scenarios in the future, but also promote a degree of inter-faith understanding between the students themselves.
We also hope that the feedback we receive will allow us to gain an understanding of what teaching methods work best and how productive the content itself is.
This will allow us to develop our project for any future iterations, we will reflect and discuss our methodology and our findings in our final report.
Team leads: Jeff Saddington-Wiltshire, Student Engagement Officer, Sarah Jones, VP Education and Welfare.
Team: Ify Osefoh, BSc Biomedical Science, Year 3, Lola Arowoshola, MBBS5 P Year, Maye Jabi, MBBS5 P Year, Ogor Babundo, MBBS5 T Year, SU General Secretary), Sam Mountain, BSc Paramedic Science Year 1.
This project aims to understand student’s perceptions of the student voice platform Unitu, launched at St George’s in February 2020.
Since it launched, 63% of St George’s students have activated their accounts, producing over 1,000 posts, 160,000 views and 8,000 comments, and Unitu has been St George’s platform of choice to have their voices heard regarding academic and student experience issues.
The team will study students' perceptions through a combination of qualitative and qualitative methods, such as surveys and focus groups.
The analysis of the resulting data will be complemented by Unitu analytical data to produce an internal report.
The aim is to produce recommendations to enhance the functionality of Unitu and to develop tools for evaluating the effectiveness of student engagement and student voice tools.
The team aim to also share the research externally in conferences or academic journals to open up dialogue with colleagues across the sector.
Team leads: Peter Tamony, Margot Turner, Malone Mukwende
This project aims to address and rectify the white skin bias prevalent in teaching clinical examinations and procedural skills.
By default, nearly all the descriptions of clinical signs are for Caucasian patients.
In addition to this, pictures of clinical signs found in textbooks and recommended resources are also mainly of white skin patients.
As a result, BAME students may feel “othered” and all students may be ill prepared for addressing the needs of a diverse patient group.
Find out more: Mind the Gap: A handbook of clinical signs in Black and Brown Skin
Team leads: Emma Metters, Arabella Watkin.
This project enhances careers resources by producing and evaluating video profiles of doctors and healthcare professionals in different specialities and at different stages in their careers.
Students and staff broadening communication skills by learning British Sign Language together: A pilot project
Team leads: Mary Jane Cole, Oluchi Zelic
This project seeks to improve the understanding of BSL among SGUL student and staff in order to enhance inclusion and communication with students in our cohorts who are deaf.
Team leads: Jane Cronin-Davis, Hamzah Niaz
With this project, the aim is to increase awareness about the various resources and services that can offer help and support students dealing with mental health issues.
Read the project report produced by the team (PDF).
Team leads: Carol Shiels, Olga Ihirwe.
A recent survey of St George’s students has demonstrated that there is an interest in providing more opportunities for art and humanities-based activities (Health Humanities Intercalated BSc survey 2018).
In this project, the aim is to give students and staff this opportunity by holding a series of art and creativity workshops in the Museum to co-create a collection of artworks inspired by the Pathology Museum collection.
The project promotes inclusivity by encouraging participation from students and staff, regardless of their perceived art abilities or medical knowledge, through peer-support and instructor-facilitated workshops.
Team leads: Jane Cronin-Davis, Anna Searle.
The Proud Teachers initiative aims to help students from all clinical courses identify clinicians who are willing to teach in busy, unfamiliar clinical environments.
By funding the creation of Identification Card Reels with an identifiable symbol on them, students would be able to identify at a glance clinical staff who are interested in facilitating student teaching & development.
Team leads: Emma Metters, Arabella Watkins.
The project aims to produce video profiles of doctors in different specialities and at different stages of their careers.
The videos are accompanied with resources around teh speciality to create a 'go to' guide to specialities and aims to assist students in exploring career paths and opportunities.
Team leads: Fiona Graham
The project investigates how online collaboration using Microsoft Teams can support group projects by using 'Microsoft Teams learning hub' to hold team meetings, share files, give opinions or delegate tasks from within one single online space.
Team leads: Judith Ibison, Corey Briffa.
This project proposes to map curricula for leadership across courses, with the aim of identifying good practice, which may be shared between Course teams.
Team leads: Margot Turner, Adrian Crawford.
The project aims to address the BME attainment gap through a series of events that create a welcoming environment for Black staff and students and showcase that work of Black students.
The event include a Black History Month Exhibition, a Mentorship Evening Event, and a Diversity Conference.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/teaching-and-student-experience/student-survey-information-for-staff/home.aspx:
The Student Experience Team is responsible for the delivery of annual survey campaigns, alongside colleagues from across the University, and the internally run Student Online Teaching Survey (SOLTS) for modules with a taught element.
To find out more about annual surveys or SOLTS, please click below.
This page aims to detail information about the NSS, SES, PTES and PRES and act as a resource bank for Staff.
This page aims to detail information about SOLTS, including the new process that has been implemented this year.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/teaching-and-student-experience/research-degree-supervisors-guidance-and-forms/home.aspx:
On the pages below, you will find all the forms that you need for recruiting students, monitoring them throughout their studies (by completing the mandatory milestones) and enabling them to enter their thesis for examination.
If you have any questions then please email researchdegrees@sgul.ac.uk and the Graduate School will be pleased to help you.
Read the full Research degrees supervisor handbook (PDF).
Whether you or your sponsor pays your fees, it is your responsibility to ensure the fees have been paid by the end of each academic year (31 July) and you are liable for these fees should your sponsor default.
You will not be permitted to re-enrol if you have outstanding fees.
Additionally, if you are in the exams process, we will not be able to release your award letter or degree certificate if there are any tuition fees outstanding (this includes writing up and ‘continuing student’ fees).
If your fees are paid by a sponsor, please let the PGR team know as soon as possible so that invoices can be sent to the correct person or body.
Contact the Finance Office to ensure your fee payments are up-to-date (Accounts Receivable  - acco-rec@sgul.ac.uk ).
MPhil and PhD students are required to pay a minimum of two years full time fees or the part-time equivalent.
MD(Res) students are required to pay a minimum of one year’s full time fees or the part-time equivalent.
You or your sponsor will be issued with an invoice shortly after your registration has been confirmed and thereafter prior to the start of every academic year (01 August) until completion of your degree.
If you are a self-payer and registering at the start of your studies, then you will be required to pay your fees in full as part of your registration.
Home full-time
£5,006
Home part-time
£3,004
Staff rate full-time*
Staff rate part-time*
£1,802
EU and overseas, Medicine (full-time)
£30,050
EU and overseas, Medicine (part-time)
On application
EU and overseas, non-medicine (full-time)
£27,300
EU and overseas, non-medicine (part-time)
EU and overseas, full-time
£36,400
EU and overseas, part-time
£18,750
* Postgraduates who are employed by City St George’s only , will be charged a reduced rate, except in those cases where the student is not personally responsible for the payment of the tuition fee, in which case the full fee will be charged to the student’s sponsor.
Years 1 and 2
Full-time fees
Years 1 to 4
Part-time fees
Year 3
Normally full-time fees
Years 5 to 6
Normally part-time fees
Year 4
Writing up fees (£327)#
Year 7
Year 1
Year 2
# If given permission to move to writing up status.
For students who have registered since  01 June 2024, fees are due up to submission of thesis except in the following circumstances.
All students are permitted one year only of writing up fees.
An extension request should not be entirely fee free if they have not submitted.
For the most up to date information, please refer to the Tuition Fees policy page .
Salaries Office If you are employed at SGUL or are receiving a stipend during your studies and wish to pay your tuition fees in instalments from your salary/stipend, upon arrival you should go to the Student Life Centre to sign an instalment agreement with the Student Finance & Support Officer.
You should then take the agreement to the Salaries Office based on the Ground Floor of Hunter Wing to ensure that the office has all the required details in order for you to pay on a monthly basis.
Please note that the tuition fees must be cleared by 1 August of that academic year.
Maternity Pay Full-time female MPhil/PhD students in receipt of a stipend from a City St George’s studentship, Research Council funded studentship, Wellcome Trust or medical research charity will be eligible for up to six months paid maternity leave.
If your funding body does not make provision for paid maternity leave, this will be funded by City St George’s.
Please let us know if you are planning to go on maternity leave and think you may be eligible for maternity pay.
(Students who are part-time, self-funded or funded by an overseas government will not be eligible for maternity pay.) Changes to fee rates Fees are subject to inflationary changes annually.
The details given above are correct for 2025/26 only and do not form part of any contract.
The fees currently chargeable may be confirmed on application to the Programme Manager (Research Degrees)
Bookings can be made via the Staff development webpage or on MyWorkplace .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/teaching-and-student-experience/external-examiners/home.aspx:
External Examiners work with us primarily to ensure that the standard of the awards made by St George’s is consistent with that of institutions elsewhere in the United Kingdom and that the integrity of assessment is maintained to ensure consistent treatment of students and decision making.
The University greatly values the contribution made by External Examiners to its quality assurance procedures.
External Examiners are an integral part of the operation of our assessments.
Our Quality Manual on Assessment and External Examining (PDF) has been written with reference to the UK Quality Code Advice and Guidance, published by the QAA.
See Section I regarding assessment and external examining.
Please see our General Regulations (PDF).
External Examiners are nominated by a senior academic member of staff responsible for the programme.
A summary of the role of the external examiner is available here (PDF) and further information can be found in the Quality Manual .
The External Examiner will be asked to provide a short CV and to confirm that s/he meets the criteria by completing the Appointment Details Form below.
Nomination Form (Appendix I3) – to be completed by the Course Director / Chief Examiner
Appointment Details Form (Appendix I4) – to be completed by the nominee
Once the nomination has been approved at Senate, the appointed External Examiner will receive a formal email either from the Examinations Office in Registry for Undergraduate Courses or from the Postgraduate Administration Office for Postgraduate Courses.
The University is legally obliged to verify the Right to Work status of all external examiners.
Inductiond ay is a non-compulsory annual event and an opportunity to welcome new External Examiners to our Tooting campus.
It is scheduled to be held onsite at our Tooting campus on Monday 27 November 2023 .
External Examiners are strongly encouraged to attend our Induction where they will have the opportunity to meet key academic and administrative members of staff and raise any enquiries they may have.
Once the External Examiner details are set up with HR, a staff reference number will be made available from the relevant office (Registry or Postgraduate Administration).
This enables the External Examiner to self-register for a St George’s IT account.
On completion, the External Examiner is asked to pass on her/his new St George’s email address to the relevant programme team.
The programme team will then be able to register the External Examiner to our Virtual Learning Environment, Canvas.
Reasonable expenses such as standard train tickets, overnight accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed upon submission of a completed External Examiner Expense Claim Form (Word) together with scanned copy of receipts attached to your email.
For your reference, the maximum reimbursement amount for meals is: breakfast £10, lunch £10 and dinner £20 including VAT and service with no alcohol.
Overnight accommodation is reimbursed up to the value of a night at a local hotel.
Expense claims should be submitted as soon as possible to External Examiner Mailbox after they incurred and must be made within three months.
Please retain the original receipts and tickets for audit purpose.
The Expenses Policy can be found here .
Please contact us on externalexaminers@sgul.ac.uk if you require further details.
External Examiners are asked to submit an annual report at an agreed time and in an agreed format.
The report is due from the External Examiner within four weeks of the final Board of Examiners of the year for that programme.
The annual fee will be released on receipt of the report.
Any outstanding reports will be followed up with the relevant External Examiners.
The Annual Report Form can be found here.
External examiners' annual reports are available in full to students via Canvas, with the exception of any confidential report made directly to the Vice-Chancellor.
These are available from the Quality and Partnerships Directorate .
All External Examiners can expect to receive a response to their reports from the Chief Examiner or Course Director.
Responses will be copied to the Examinations Office for the Undergraduate Courses and Postgraduate Administration Office for the Postgraduate Courses , who will log the response.
For critical reports with a wide circulation, the response will be agreed with the Academic Lead for Quality and Partnerships prior to despatch.
Postgraduate Report Form – please email to Postgraduate Administration Office
Undergraduate Report Form – please email to External Examiners
External Examiner fees are released on receipt of the annual report at the end of the academic year following the Board of Examiner meeting.
£700
MBBS
£100 Basic Fee plus Script Marking (£100 – 600); Project Marking (£40 per project read & viva done up to a maximum of £200); Viva Examinations and Exam Board Attendance (£50 per half-day)
BSc Biomedical Science Year 3 & BSc Intercalated
£550
Other BSc and MSc Physiotherapy
Dip/BSc Health Care Practice (= CPD) and BSc Cancer care; Physician Associate Studies (MPAS); PGT (PgCert, PgDip, MSc, MRes)
The following documents are available on the Examinations Page :
Programme Specifications
Advance HE – External Examining
QAA UK Quality Code for Higher Education
QAA Assessment
QAA Quality Code – The Frameworks for Higher Education Qualifications
QAA Quality Code - Subject Benchmark Statements
QAA Quality Code - Advice and Guidance on External Expertise
St George’s Strategic Vision 2030
Our Location
Postgraduate Administration
External Examiners
Any concerns or matters for escalation can be raised with the Academic Registrar

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/teaching-and-student-experience/osce-examiners/home.aspx:
Recruitment Pause Notice
Please note that we are currently pausing the recruitment of new CCA/OSCE examiners until the next academic year as the current assessment cycle has been completed.
Recruitment is expected to reopen around October 2025, and further updates and the training dates will be published here in due course.
Thank you for your interest.
Thank you for your interest in examining the MBBS Clinical Competency Assessments, CCAs (previously called Objective Structured Clinical Examinations, OSCEs) and the Physician Associate (PA) OSCEs at City St George’s, University of London (Tooting campus).
Please note that the CCAs/OSCEs are held onsite at the premises of our Tooting campus (Cranmer Terrace, SW17 0RE, Tooting, London).
Note: Please kindly ensure to check your eligibility to examine for our CCAs/OSCEs and which specific years of the MBBS/PA courses you may examine for under the Eligibility tab below.
Please check this before you proceed to book a training session.
Thank you for your interest in examining at City St George's and we hope to work with you this coming academic year.
Please note that dates are constantly updated, so please be assured you will have the opportunity to complete the training if the dates offered at the moment are not convenient for you.
You can check the available training dates following the link below:
CCA/OSCE Examiner Training 2024-25
New examiners are required to attend a CCA/OSCE examiner workshop.
This interactive session includes both checklist and domain-based marking, and unconscious bias training.
During this session you will learn how CCAs/OSCEs are designed to test clinical skills, best practice for examiners, how to avoid examiner problems and will have the opportunity to practice marking alongside other examiners.
You will also develop an understanding of the importance of the role of the examiner in regards to exam reliability and providing feedback to students.
Please note that a certificate of attendance can be requested only after the examiner undergoes the training and examines for at least one exam session.
All examiners are required to attend a refresher training session every three years.
If it has been more than a year since you last examined, it is highly recommended to attend the live online training session or watch the training recording.
For access to the refresher training session, please contact Exams Team .
In order to examine this cohort, you must:
All examiners in all years will be required to complete unconscious bias training (which is included in the new examiner training and refresher training) within the last three years.
This is a GMC requirement.
** Medical doctors who qualified within the last three years must declare a conflict of interest if they know students at a personal level in the index year.
They will either be placed away from them on a different circuit or excluded from the exam.
Examiners who do not meet these criteria may still be permitted to examine at a certain CCA if for example they have written a station or have a proven record as a CCA examiner.
This must be approved by the responsible examiner or Head of Assessment for the specific CCA.
Examiners who are non-medical staff and are not employed by SGUL to teach MBBS students regularly, will have their eligibility and level determined on a case by case basis.
These requests will be considered by the Doctor as Practitioner domain lead or Head of Assessment.
All examiners for both years will be required to complete unconscious bias training (which is included in the new examiner training and refresher training) within the last three years.
PAs who qualified within the last three years must declare a conflict of interest if they know students at a personal level in the index year.
Examiners who do not meet these criteria may still be permitted to examine at a certain OSCE if for example they have written a station or have a proven record as an OSCE examiner.
This must be approved by the chief or responsible OSCE examiner.
Examiners who are non-medical staff and are not employed by SGUL to teach PA students regularly, will have their eligibility and level determined on a case by case basis.
These requests will be considered by the chief and responsible OSCE Examiner.
In general, availability will be collected from active examiners around 2-3 months before the exam date via an online form.
Please note that in order to examine, you must undertake the training before the date of the exam and provide all the necessary documents for Payroll if eligible for payment (please see section below).
The Exams Team reserves the right to cancel your availability or sign you up for the upcoming training session if there is no record of you attending one.
Before submitting your availability and if you haven't done so already this year, please fill in the Personal Information and Qualifications Form which will help us to keep your examiner record as well as will be used to assign exam stations.
Once you have submitted the availability, your CCA/OSCE sessions are confirmed, unless you receive an email from us thereafter stating otherwise.
The responsible examiners typically assign the stations to examiners two to three weeks ahead of the CCAs.
Importantly, some examiners will be allocated to a ‘reserve’ list.
Reserve examiners can leave once the CCA/OSCE session has started and we have confirmed they are no longer needed.
This is an essential mechanism to deal with late cancellations and no-shows, which could otherwise delay the examination start for hundreds of anxious candidates.
We try to assign reserve slots to SGUL employees in the first instance, however, this cannot always be guaranteed.
If you have a particular desire to be allocated to a station rather than the reserve list, please let us know in advance.
Examiners will receive their CCA/OSCE session details at least two weeks in advance of the session.
From December 2022 onwards, examiners who are not employed by SGUL, or an NHS provider which has a tripartite agreement with HEE, are eligible to receive payment of £30 per hour for examining CCA/OSCE sessions.
Reserve examiners will receive payment for 2 hours if they are not needed for the CCA/OSCE session.
Please note that if the examining session is less than 2 hours, you will be paid for the duration of the session.
You’ll be paid on the 27th of each month (or the Friday before if the 27th falls on a weekend), for the work you did the previous month.
To receive payment, send the completed New Starter Forms below along with a high-quality colour copy of your passport to the Exams Team .
Please complete an electronic version of the documents and send them back as attachments to the email.
If you are an SGUL employee and will be examining outside of your contracted hours, please inform Exam Team in order for the payment to be arranged.
Please note parking is very limited, therefore we kindly request that you use public transport where possible.
If this will be difficult, there are limited spaces in the Hunter Wing Car Park (directions below), on a ‘first come first serve’ basis.
If you wish to use the car park, please provide the following details to the Exams Team at least two weeks in advance:
If you have any queries, please contact the Exams Team .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/teaching-and-student-experience/personal-tutoring/home.aspx:
This page is intended to provide a toolkit for all personal tutors across City St.
George's, School of Health and Medical Sciences (SHMS), to help support our students in their learning and wellbeing.
You can familiarise yourself with the sources of support available to City St.
Georges students using the resources on the Personal Tutor webpage and/or consulting with the PT/Welfare Lead of the relevant programme
Course-specific information is held under the pages listed below, as well as core training resources for all tutors or on the relevent canvas page.
Dr Nicoletta Fossati
nfossati@sgul.ac.uk
The personal tutor scheme at St George's aims to provide support and guidance to help students achieve their academic and professional potential.
Personal tutors are one of several invaluable support mechanisms for students and take an active interest in the students’ course and university experience.
Personal tutors are expected to act as a point of referral for students wishing to access help from a number of sources including academic, financial, healthcare and disability support and guidance on coping with student life.
Personal tutors are expected to:
Tutors are asked to meet informally for the first time with their Year 1 students as a group.
Records do not have to be kept from this meeting, but you should offer individual meetings if needed.
This meeting should occur as close to the start of term as possible.
Tutors should have their first formal meeting with their tutees as laid out by the specific courses; see common questions below.
Tutors are asked to keep a general note on the kinds of problems that arise, how they dealt with them and what happened as a result so that their tutees can benefit from their experience.
This is also necessary to allow for appropriate exchange of information if the personal tutor is changed.
These should be kept by the tutor and are not to be circulated.
Please store your personal tutor notes in accordance with GDPR regulations i.e., to comply it is recommended that these notes are stored either on the SGUL cloud server or central drives.
Be aware that students can request any written/ electronic information that pertains to them under the data protection act.
Each course will differ in how personal tutor records are managed and personal tutors are asked to refer to their course-specific personal tutor guide for specific arrangements concerning submission/retention of personal tutor forms.
Personal matters discussed are confidential and will not usually be disclosed to other people.
However, occasionally it is in the student’s interest to let the student welfare support team know that the student is experiencing problems, to collate information, or for the tutor to get advice from more experienced staff or from the counselling service.
In general, personal matters should not be revealed without the agreement of the student.
However, advice can be sought from the Director for Student Welfare and/or PT leads in an anonymous manner without revealing the student’s identity.
In exceptional circumstances the tutor may have to breach confidentiality to protect either the student or others
Personal Tutors are required to complete online training to better understand their responsibilities under the Prevent duty .
Under the Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015, St George's is required to “have due regard to the need to prevent people from being drawn into terrorism”.
The online Prevent module in MyTraining will introduce the Prevent duty, support you to notice concerns that may make individuals vulnerable to radicalisation, show what a proportionate response looks like, and give you the confidence and ability to raise concerns when someone may be at risk.
Please contact the Prevent training lead Louise.Jennings@citystgeorges.ac.uk Louise.Jennings@citystgeorges.ac.uk.
if you have any queries.
Staff can access MyTraining (link below) either through the Learning tab within MyWorkplace or by visiting https://mytraining.sgul.ac.uk and entering their usual St George’s username and password.
After logging in, staff will be presented with a list of available online mandatory training courses they will need to complete.
After a course has been completed in MyTraining,  automatic reminders will be sent to staff by email when the course is set to expire and should be re-taken.
Personal tutors are often asked to write references for their tutees for a number of reasons including employment and applications to postgraduate courses.
Personal tutors should always seek advice from their administrative leads or personal tutor co-ordinator if they feel uncomfortable about providing references for particular students or are unsure as to the level of detail that is appropriate.
In writing references tutors should be mindful of the Data Protection Act (that students can access the references that are being provided) and the information contained in references should:
If personal tutors are unable to provide a reference which meets the criteria above, then they should ask the student to seek an alternative referee.
Personal tutors do not have to provide landlord or accommodation-related references for students.
Enquiries about this need to be directed to the Accommodation team.
Togetherall is the anonymous 24 hour online wellbeing platform that SGUL pay for; the link below gives a short introduction to this.
Students can access courses and wellbeing chatrooms which are monitored by psychologists and counsellors; when students post questions, comments or ask for advice, they should get a prompt response.
There are also some other wellbeing activities they can join if they are interested.
Victim Support offer confidential emotional help, support and advice for people who have been affected by crime.South London Victim Assessment & Referral Service 0808 168 9291, then dial 3 SW London Care Team: 020 7801 1777 (lines Monday-Friday 9am-5pm)Out of hours Support line: 0808 168 9111
National Domestic Violence offer confidential support, help and information for someone who is (or knows of) experiencing domestic abuse.24 hour Helpline: 0808 200 0247
Women's Aid & Refuge can put women who need to escape from a violent situation in touch with emergency refuge accommodation.
Information includes safety and what to do to help a friend/relative in danger of domestic violence.
Refuge supports women and children who experience all forms of violence and abuse, including domestic and sexual violence, forced marriage and so called ‘honour' based violence.Free 24 hour Helpline: 0808 200 0247
Wandsworth Women's Aid provide advice, support and information to women to enable them to start new lives and to make independent decisions about their future.
E-mail: admin@wandsworthwa.org.uk Tel: 020 8871 2664 / 020 8870 6850
Forced Marriage Unit is a joint Foreign & Commonwealth Office and Home Office unit which provides advice and support to victims of forced marriage.Tel: 020 7008 0151
Afghan Women's Support Forum : UK support forum for Afghan women.
British Afghan Women's Society : deal with domestic violence, issues with education, social change.
Karma Nirvana offer support to victims of honour-based abuse, disownment and forced marriage.UK Helpline: 0800 599 9247
Men's Advice Line offers practical advice and emotional support for men of all sexual orientations, experiencing domestic violence and abuse from a partner, ex-partner or other family members.
Freephone: 0808 801 0327
Muslim Youth Helpline provides pioneering faith and culturally sensitive services to the Muslim youth in the UK, putting young people at the frontline of service delivery.Helpline: 0808 808 2008 open every day 4-10pm.
Muslim Women's Network UK (MWNUK) is the only national Muslim women's organisation in Britain, who work to improve the social justice and equality for Muslim women and girls.
Brook sexual health and wellbeing for under 25's offering advice and help on a range of topics.Ask Brook 24/7 tool can be used to ask any question from contraception to sexuality.
Rape & Sexual Abuse Support Centre, Rape Crisis South London offer specialised confidential support, information and referral details free of charge, to survivors of rape or child abuse, family, friends and partners of survivors.
Daily National Helpline: 0808 802 9999 - Rape Crisis South London - Rape & Sexual Abuse Support CentreRape Crisis South London (rasasc.org.uk)
Rape Crisis offer free confidential counselling, emotional and practical helpline support to women/girls and men/boys, who have been raped or experienced any other form of sexual abuse.
The Havens are specialist centres in London for people who have been raped or sexually assaulted in the last 12 months.
Information on the website is provided in a multitude of languages.24 hours helpline: 020 3299 6900
SurvivorsUK help sexually abused men as well as their family & friends, no matter when the abuse happened.Tel: 020 3598 3898
National Association for People Abused in Childhood (NAPAC) support adults who have suffered any type of abuse in childhood.Tel: 0808 801 0331
National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) gives advice to anyone who is worried about a child.
Harmless is a user led organisation that provides a range of services about self-harm and suicide prevention including support information, training and consultancy to people who self-harm, their friends and families and those at risk of suicide .
Self-Injury Support is a website for young people offering a wide range of advice, support and information on self-harm and recovery.
They also provide a confidential Q&A service.
FRANK Friendly, Confidential Drugs Advice provide detailed information about a wide range of drugs, including chances of addiction, their effects on the body and legal status.
They give lists of services in your area, and provide information on what you can do if you are worried about someone you know.
SMS: 82111Tel: 0300 123 6600
Release provide information, advocacy and advice on drugs, a counselling service, human rights and the law.Helpline: 020 7324 2989
Families Anonymous is a twelve step program for relatives and friends of addicts, offering support to family members and friends affected by another's abuse of mind altering substances, or related behavioural problems behavioural.
The National Association for children of Alcoholics (Nacoa) provide information, advice and confidential support for everyone affected by a parent's drinking and the knock-on effects of growing up with parental alcoholism.
Shared experiences of caring or working with someone affected by their parent's drinking and a message board, support this website.Helpline: 0800 358 3456
The Mix is a website that offers essential support for under 25's offering discussion Boards and real life stories.
Topics covered are Sex & Relationships, Your Body, Mental Health, Drink & Drugs, Housing, Money, Work & Study, Crime & Safety and Travel & Lifestyle.Tel: 0808 808 4994
The National Eating Disorders Association (NEDA) is dedicated to supporting individuals and families affected by eating disorders.
Beat The UK's Eating Disorder Charity offer support from on-line helpline advisers.Helpline: 0808 801 0677Studentline: 0808 801 0811
ABC (Anorexia & Bulimia Care) provide ongoing care, emotional support and practical guidance for anyone affected by eating disorders.
Orri Raises awareness of eating disorders in men; peer support services for affected men.
Mind information and support for people living with a mental health problem, or supporting someone who is.
Access to the right information about a condition, treatment options or practical issues.
Real life stories and blogs support this website.
The Students Against Depression provide you with a calm environment and the resources to help you find a way forward including Self-Help Workbooks.
Depression UK promote mutual support between individuals affected by, or at risk from, depression, with the aim of encouraging self –help, recovery and personal growth.
Anxiety UK offer confidential advice and support for those with anxiety, stress and anxiety-based depression.
They also help deal with specific phobias.
Papyrus provide confidential help and advice to young people up to the age of 35 who may be feeling suicidal, or anyone concerned about a young person.
The website offers information on self-help and self-care.Hopeline: 0800 068 4141 Papyrus Hopelink Safety Plan: Help & Advice Resources Disclosure of suicidal thoughts Help is at hand guide from Support After Suicide
Help for Suicidal Thoughts Help and support is available if you're feeling like you want to die; you don't have to struggle with difficult feelings alone.
CALM (Campaign Against Living Miserably) works to prevent male suicide in the UK.
Dedicated support line and online webchat for men in emotional distress or crisis.London: 080 880 258 58Nationwide: 0800 58 5858
Survivors of Bereavement by Suicide support those affected by suicide through their provision of support groups around the country.Helpline: 0300 111 5065Email support: sobs.support@hotmail.com
Bereavement Advice Centre advice and support people on what they need to do after a death.
Their website and helpline provide help with the wide range of practical issues that need to be managed after a bereavement, as well as signposting to other support.Freephone: 0800 634 9494
Switchboard LGBT & Helpline a place for calm words when you need them most.
They offer confidential non-judgemental advice and understanding to lesbians, gay men, bisexual and trans people, and anyone considering issues around their sexuality and/or gender identity.Tel: 0300 330 0630, 10am–10pm every day
Galop the LGBT+ anti-violence charity provides confidential and independent advice and support for LGBT+ people who have experienced sexual assault, abuse or violence.
They can help if you have experienced homophobia, transphobia or biphobia.London Advice line: 020 7704 2040
Chinese Information and Advice Centre (ciac) offers free information, advice and support to Chinese people living in the UK.
Samaritans provides confidential non-judgemental emotional support 24 hours a day for people who are experiencing feelings of distress or despair, including those which could lead to suicide.
Whatever you're going through, whether it's big or small, don't bottle it up.
We are here for you if you're worried about something, feel upset or confused, or just want to talk to someone.
Email: jo@samaritans.org Freephone: 006 123 Inner SW London: 020 7734 2800
Wandsworth Citizens Advice Bureaux , Adviceline 0300 330 1169
SW London Law Centre provides specialist legal advice and representation to people who could not otherwise afford access to justice.Tel: 020 8767 2777
24/7 Mental Health Support Line for SWLST on 0800 028 8000
Search engine for MH helplines across the UK
Give Us A Shout: Text SHOUT to 85258, a free texting service on all major mobile networks for anyone in crisis.
BMA : free service for all doctors/medical students, partners and dependants; membership not required.
Sudden has a bereavement helpline you can call on 0800 2600 400 if someone you know has died.
Open daily from 8am to 8pm.
National Autistic Society (NAS) offers a range of services for autistic individuals and their families, including services for adults.
They also have a section dedicated to university/being a student
Revenge Porn Hotline A UK service supporting adults (aged 18+) who are experiencing intimate image abuse, also known as, revenge porn.
The Counselling Service is available for Tooting Campus based  students and staff only.
Encouraging students to register with the message that seeking appropriate help is considered a wise and mature step, can help them access the service more easily.
The Counselling Service is also available to staff who have concerns about a student they want to talk over.
You can find further information on the Counselling Service webpages .
Below are a list of useful training resources:
MBBS5 Early Years Programme Co-ordinator
MBBS5 Year 1
MBBS5_1and2@sgul.ac.uk
MBBS5Y1assessments@sgul.ac.uk
MBBS5Y2assessments@sgul.ac.uk
dgillott@sgul.ac.uk
MBBS4_year1@sgul.ac.uk
MBBS4Y1assessments@sgul.ac.uk
rmontero@sgul.ac.uk
MBBS_TYear@sgul.ac.uk
MBBSTassessments@sgul.ac.uk
nannear@sgul.ac.uk
MBBS_PYear@sgul.ac.uk
MBBSPassessments@sgul.ac.uk
MBBS_FYear@sgul.ac.uk
MBBSFAssessments@sgul.ac.uk
Assessment related documents will be published, during the spring term.
MBBS-curriculum-brochure
Reporting Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment in Teaching Settings (Including Clinical Placements) - Addressing Perceived Barriers and Challenges (Word)
This information can also be accessed via Canvas here
24.25 Foundation Programme References for Final Year students
Please see below an infographic summarising options for those in T, P and F years who are retaking the year, or returning after an interruption of study (iOS).
In addition, some resources are open to any MBBS T/P/F year student, such as the Support for Learning on Clinical Placement.
Academic Support for MBBS students retaking or returning to IOS (PDF)
How do I look up students' details (photos, contact emails)?
To request access to Sonic, your line manager should go to this page to submit the request: apps.sgul.ac.uk/services/sonic/newsonicuser.php .
What records should I keep of my meetings with students?
Tutors are asked to keep a general note on the kinds of problems that arise, how they dealt with them and what happened as a result so that the system can benefit from experience.
This is also necessary to allow for appropriate exchange of information, if the personal tutor is changed.
Be aware that students can request any written/electronic information that pertains to them under the data protection act.
On the MBBS course, there are a number of compulsory meetings across the years and there are forms provided for these meetings.
Details and the forms can be found on this page.
The personal tutor administrator ( Lee Rolls ) will remind students and tutors of the meeting at appropriate times in the year, if you have any queries, you are asked to contact her for more information.
Where do I find out examination information for MBBS students?
Examination results will be sent by the Exams Team at the same time as being sent to the student.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-and-inclusion-edi/about-edi-at-st-georges/gender-equality/athena-swan/home.aspx:
The team is led by Dr Vanessa Ho, Dean for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
City St George's previously held an institutional Bronze Athena SWAN Award.
In May 2018, we were awarded the coveted institutional Silver Award – one of only 17 universities in the UK.
As part of the Athena SWAN self-assessment process, we have developed an ambitious action plan for the next few years.
Everyone is welcome at Athena SWAN activities Find out more about upcoming and previous events.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-staff/services-initiatives/university-seminar-programme.aspx:
The University seminar programme started in January 2021.
We hold seminars on the fourth Thursday of the month from 1pm to 2pm.
The aim of the seminar programme is to bring together researchers across the university, to inspire, educate and encourage collaboration.
All staff and students at St George's, University of London are welcome.
There will be two speakers each session, and time for audience questions.
Below are details of upcoming seminars and how to join, as well as ways to watch past seminars.
We look forward to you joining us.
The most recent seminar will be featured on this page via YouTube (please ensure you have accepted the necessary cookies to view this content).
Previous seminars can be found on this YouTube playlist as well as on MS Streams (login required).
If you have any questions about the university seminar prorgramme please contact amason@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/cost-of-living-hub:
Due to extensive upgrade and refurbishment work taking place, some the below spaces in Hunter Wing are currently out of use, including our Students’ Union and bar.
Please check your emails for details and  look out for further updates via student communications, as we will be in touch as soon as these spaces become available.
We know that this may be a worrying time for our students and their families.
We're here to help.
As well as the information on these pages, students are always welcome to come speak to the Student Life Centre (Hunter Wing, Level 1) if they would like to discuss any matters in person.
Here you can find all the latest information, support and guidance available to City St George’s (Tooting campus) students affected by the rising cost of living.
We have boosted our Access to Learning Fund which is now open for applications.
Discounts, free food and cheap meals to cook at home.
How to keep warm this winter.
Working while you study can be a great way to enhance your CV, build your skills and earn money.
Tube and rail discounts, cheaper and sustainable travel options.
All our student support services in one place.
Free and discounted ideas for your home, projects and adventures.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/report-bullying-or-harassment:
St George's, University of London is committed to providing an academic environment of the highest quality for all of our students.
We value and celebrate our diversity and strive to create a positive learning environment that is free from harassment and bullying, where all people are treated with dignity and respect.
We aim to enable all students to fulfil their personal potential and do not tolerate bullying and harassment of any kind.
St George's fully supports students raising concerns and we are committed to investigating allegations swiftly and fairly.
Please use the button above to report incident of physical or verbal assault, sexual harassment, sexual assault, online harassment, stalking, bullying, discrimination or a hate crime that you have experienced yourself or that you have witnessed.
This could (but not exclusively) be based on:
The reporting tool is for reporting incidents within the University (including on placements).
If the matter is related to the Student Union or is something you don’t feel comfortable sharing with the University, please contact the Students’ Union President or VP Education .
Before you report an incident please read our frequently asked questions below.
If you have experienced harassment, bullying or a hate crime there is support available, both within the University and externally.
The answers to the FAQs below provide more details about this.
We recognise it can be very challenging to come forward to raise a concern or make a complaint.
We want to promote a culture which supports students to raise concerns without fear or repercussions.
If you feel unable to raise a concern to the University please consider reporting the incident to another source of help such as the Students’ Union , or depending on the issue, the police .
To raise a concern about bullying and/or harassment you can
Explain what has happened in as much detail as you feel comfortable giving.
It is important that you provide as much information as you can.
You will be asked whether you are happy to be contacted for follow-up by the university.
You will also be asked if you need any support.
We’re interested in hearing about any form of harassment or bullying.
Students can use the form to highlight racist or homophobic incidents, or issues relating to religious hate.
It’s very personal— the definition of bullying and harassment is that it is subjective and based on the perceptions of the person on the receiving end of the harassment.
It doesn’t matter how others may have dealt with it or what you’ve been told.
If it affects you, tell us about it.
If we have evidence, we can act on reports that are made anonymously, although it can be more difficult to investigate an anonymous concern.
If we can we will and at the least, it may be helpful for the university to record the incident, and there may be enough evidence to act even if it is anonymous.
Even if nothing can immediately be done, data provided is helpful and we can use it to improve things in the community generally.
It is important that students feel able to discuss concerns with any member of staff they feel comfortable speaking to.
Students can use the report and support form to raise issues or can discuss concerns with:
The information you give will go to a dedicated inbox which will be monitored by the welfare team.
There are then different options of what happens next, depending on the concern, who it is about, and what you have said you would like to happen.
We will preserve the agency of the reporting student wherever possible and will be there to support.
If a crime has allegedly been committed you may be advised to go to the police and staff would support you with this and support you if you decide not to.
If it is possible to resolve a complaint or concern informally we will try to do that, talking to both parties and offering mediation if possible.
If this is inappropriate because of the nature of the concern, or not what the student wants the matter will be dealt with as a formal complaint.
More serious complaints are generally managed by a small number of staff.
Generally there will be one member of staff assigned to your support, one to the support of the other student (if applicable) and any investigation is carried out by a third party.
You can choose (within reason) who you’d like to support you.
If you have agreed to be contacted, then a member of staff will be in touch with you.
If the complaint is about a member of staff it is likely that the complaint will be forwarded to human resources.
If the complaint is about something that has happened on placement this will be dealt with by the placement provider and the university.
Students are often particularly worried about making complaints about members of staff and are worried it will affect their progression in some way.
The university will take steps to ensure that this won’t happen.
If there is an investigation you may be asked to be interviewed.
You will be supported throughout the process if you agree to this.
Complaints about students are managed by the Student Conduct and Compliance Team.
The team will review the complaint, and may appoint an investigating officer to investigate what has happened.
Sometimes the university’s power to investigate or act in relation to a specific complaint is limited and this can be disappointing for the reporting student.
We’ll continue to support you regardless of the outcome.
Complaints about members of Uuiversity staff are managed by Human Resources.
They will contact the staff member’s manager and ask them to investigate what has happened.
These complaints are managed by the course team who will ask the relevant Trust to investigate what has happened.
We will work with individual placement providers.
We want to know about problems on placements and will support you, and ensure that there are no educational negative consequences of raising concerns with us.
The SU has its own complaints procedure and the complaint should be made to the SU VP Education or President.
If the incident was very serious the SU may decide to inform the university.
It isn’t usually possible to feed back details about the outcome of a complaint because of data protection constraints and external regulations, but you will be told when the investigation is complete.
We are not permitted to give details of sanctions another student has received.
Examples of sanctions may be of a written warning, training, suspension or even expulsion in rare cases.
If you have experienced harassment, bullying or hate crime there is support available, both within the university and externally:
We want to promote a culture which supports students to raise concerns without fear of repercussions and we fully supports students in doing this.
If you feel unable to raise a concern to the university please consider reporting the incident to another source of help, such as the Students’ Union or, depending on the issue, the Police.
If you have any concerns for your safety please contact the Police.
There are also many sources of support external to the university including:
Harassment, as defined in the Equality Act 2010, is any unwanted conduct which has the purpose or effect of violating an individual’s dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for that individual.
Anything that is unwelcome to you is unwanted.
You don’t need to have previously objected to it for this to constitute as harassment.
Harassment relates to protected characteristics, which are listed in the Equality Act 2010.
These are:
Some examples of harassment are given in the Dignity at study policy .
These examples are not intended to be exhaustive but to illustrate the types of behaviours which are unacceptable.
Please note, this also includes behaviour that takes place online.
Sexual harassment is defined as unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature which violates your dignity, makes you feel intimidated, degraded or humiliated and/or creates a hostile or offensive environment.
You don’t need to have previously objected to someone’s behaviour for it to be unwanted.
Sexual harassment can include, but is not limited to, someone making sexually degrading comments or gestures, your body being stared or leered at, being subjected to sexual jokes or propositions and physical behaviour including unwelcome sexual advances and touching.
Sexual assault is defined as any sexual act that a person did not consent to or is forced into against their will.
Sexual assault is a form of sexual violence and includes, but is not limited to, rape, groping, and forced kissing.
Sexual assault doesn't have to involve other physical violence or weapons.
Visit the Rape Crisis website for more information.
Bullying is be characterised as offensive, intimidating, malicious or insulting behaviour; an abuse or misuse of power through means that undermine, humiliate, denigrate or injure the recipient.
Bullying can be physical, verbal and non-verbal.
Non-verbal bullying may take place online, for example.
Some examples of bullying are given in the Dignity at study policy .
Harassment may also constitute a hate crime or hate incident.
Hate incidents are defined by the Crown Prosecution Service as an incident motivated by hostility or prejudice towards an individual(s) based on one of the following protected characteristics:
This also includes incidents where someone is targeted because they are perceived to possess or are associated with someone with one of the above characteristics.
Hate incidents become hate crimes when they break the law.
Hate crimes are crimes that are carried out because of hostility or prejudice based on disability, race, religion, transgender identity or sexual orientation.
They can include physical assault, verbal abuse and incitement to hatred.
Visit the Metropolitan Police website for further information on hate incidents and hate crimes.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/news/launch-of-the-gmc-regulation-of-physician-associates-and-anaesthesia-associates:
Published: 16 December 2024
This milestone reflects a shared commitment to patient safety, professional excellence, and public confidence in these vital healthcare roles.
Following a public consultation conducted by the Department of Health in 2017, work began in 2019 to regulate both PAs and AAs.
Once registered, PAs and AAs must follow the GMC’s standards set out in Good Medical Practice and can be held to account if serious concerns are raised about their practice.
The GMC will now oversee the education and training of PAs, setting clear standards for the knowledge, skills, and behaviours expected of new graduates.
At City St George’s, University of London, we are committed to equipping students with the skills and knowledge required to uphold the highest possible standards of patient care and safety and are invested in supporting the PA profession nationally.
Over recent years, our Master's in Physician Associate Studies programme has worked closely with the GMC to align our programme with the five themes of their Promoting Excellence standards .
This was recognised in the GMC quality assurance visit in October 2024, during which our curriculum and assessments were commended for their diversity and relevance, reflecting the needs of London’s diverse population.
In 2025, 62 current PA students will become the first ever cohort eligible to join the GMC register following their national exams, marking the beginning of a new era for the profession.
As we mark this milestone, we would like to recognise the outstanding work and commitment of the staff across our School and the Trust who helped us reach this point, and express our gratitude for those in our community who have championed the PA profession and supported our institution.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/news/city-st-georges-appoints-inaugural-director-of-the-finsbury-institute:
Published: 12 November 2024
City St George’s, University of London has appointed Dr Diana Beech as the inaugural director of the Finsbury Institute , its new public policy institute.
Dr Beech has also been appointed as Professor of Policy and Government Affairs and Associate Vice-President for Policy and Government Affairs.
Dr Beech has an established track record in leadership and policy roles in higher education and within national government.
She is currently the Chief Executive of London Higher which engages with its member institutions, government and London stakeholders to advocate for higher education in the capital.
Prior to this, she was a policy adviser to three UK Universities and Science Ministers, Head of Government Affairs at the University of Warwick and the first Director of Policy and Advocacy at the Higher Education Policy Institute (HEPI).
She holds a PhD in German Studies from the University of Cambridge.
Established earlier this year, this new, outward-facing hub for policy research and practice is being developed to meet the dynamic analysis, research, advisory and professional development needs of the UK policy community.
Whilst most existing policy initiatives tend principally to face towards Whitehall, we aim to support and engage with business and the professions through our unique platform in the City of London.
The Director will build and shape an influential Institute that will bring together researchers, practitioners, policymakers, campaigners, and other key organisations to address the most pressing local, national and global policy issues of our time.
This role is designed to foster external engagement and will operate outside conventional research structures and with a strong emphasis on entrepreneurial innovation.
Professor Sir Anthony Finkelstein, President, City St George’s said:
“We are the university of business, practice and the professions, and the civic university of the City of London.
This distinctive positioning supports new forms of policy engagement and ‘audiences’ for insights from cutting edge research."
I am delighted that Diana will be the inaugural Director.
Professor Charles Lees, Executive Dean, School of Policy and Global Affairs said:
“The School of Policy and Global Affairs is proud to host the Finsbury Institute, and we are delighted to appoint Diana as its inaugural Director.
Diana has extensive experience within the UK policy community and a robust network of influential contacts."
She brings credibility and leadership in engaging with business and other stakeholders and has the intellectual heft to make best use of cutting-edge research in the social sciences and beyond.
Dr Diana Beech said:
"I am thrilled to be joining City St George's, University of London as the inaugural Director of the new outward-facing Finsbury Institute and as Associate Vice President for Policy and Government Affairs.
“With the world around us changing at pace, never has there been a more important time to connect the vital research being conducted in the heart of the City with the practitioners and policymakers who are working hard to shape the future."
And never has there been a better place from which to do it than the freshly merged university of business, practice and the professions.
“I look forward to joining the City St George's team soon and working alongside its dedicated researchers, students, alumni and partners to create an institute that is committed to tackling the biggest societal challenges of our times."
Together, I know we can foster a culture of collaboration that is every bit as dynamic as the City it serves.
Dr Beech will start in her role in April 2025.
Further information about the Finsbury Institute can be found here.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/on-campus/student-notifications:
If you would like to suggest a student notice, email communications@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-experience/open-spaces/home.aspx:
The Open Spaces events programme is an evolving extra-curricular programme bringing together science, medicine, and healthcare with the arts, humanities and enterprise.
Open Spaces aims to stimulate interdisciplinary encounters between:
These events aim to be a place where new connections are fostered and existing ones rejuvenated.
At its essence, Open Spaces aims to be an oasis for connection and enrichment at St George’s.
The Open Spaces programme will be pausing until September 2026 when it will be relaunched with a refreshed and exciting programme.
We hope you will join us then.
In the meantime, please explore the pages below to find full details and recordings of past Open Spaces events.
We will be carrying out a survey to gage your views and discover what events and activities you would like included in the new programme, so please get in touch via mailto:openspaces@sgul.ac.uk
Or respond to our survey (coming soon).
Have a wonderful summer!
Join us on 22 May and learn how Hearts-based Education and Anti-colonial Learning (H.E.A.L.) creates arts-based, anti-oppression learning materials for healthcare professionals and educators.
Browse the items below to learn about some of the Open Spaces events we have previously held.
Join Dr Ian Williams for this workshop looking at Graphic Medicine - an area of study and practice, based around the use of comics in healthcare.
10 December 2024
Join an artist, public health expert and respiratory physician as they explore air pollution, respiratory health and the complex challenges of the need for clean air.
26 November 2024
Meet our new President, City St George’s, Professor Sir Anthony Finkelstein CBE and Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Education, Prof Jane Saffell in an informal environment over refreshments.
13 November 2024
Join Amy Hollinrake Tune to gain a better understanding of breath control through the use of voice.
29 October 2024
Join our walk around the rich and varied area of Tooting, and learn about Chion’s three modes of listening.
16 October 2024
This online event is a unique opportunity to explore the broken heart, its symbolism and healing, through multiple perspectives with world class clinicians and artists.
04 June 2024
Pets as Therapy is a national charity that enhances the health and wellbeing of thousands of  people in communities across the UK.
Hear how the charity connects the volunteers with the  hospital, gain a clinical view on the benefits to patients, and meet the volunteers and their dogs!
30 May 2024
Join us for a transformative Deaf Awareness and British Sign Language (BSL) workshop in celebration of Sign Language Week.
19 March 2024
Join our mailing list to be among the first to hear about future Open Spaces events and opportunities by emailing openspaces@sgul.ac.uk .
There are many different types of events offered through the Open Spaces programme.
Click the items below to find out more about each type.
The "At home with..." series is a unique opportunity to meet St George's academic leaders, facilitated by Deborah Padfield, Lecturer in Arts and Health Humanities.
Mastery workshops explore different specialised skills, coverings ways in which you can start or keep a new skill going.
Our creative workshops aim to stimulate, inspire and relax, including music, photography, drawing, dance and animation.
Discussions at the intersection of medicine and other industries.
"Having always had a keen interest in music and the arts, it is really refreshing to find a new focus on their synergy with the world of clinical medicine rather than these aspects of my personal and professional life feeling like they have to compete."
"The fusion of arts and humanities with science will enable us to reimagine our being and professionalism in a more human-friendly, sustainable manner."
"It has given real food for thought on how to further evolve my own path."
"I enjoyed the fact that it was practical and involved all participants and encouraged discussion between staff, students and the workshop leader."
"It helps you see a perspective you wouldn't ordinarily have seen."
"I found it interesting and engaging and a lovely opportunity to learn new skill and meet new people."
Many of our Open Spaces sessions are recorded, so can be watched at a later time.
Watch a playlist of recordings of previous Open Spaces sessions on YouTube.
Watch now

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-experience/st-georges-big-read/home.aspx:
The Big Read aims to create a sense of belonging among students and staff alike through shared reading - one book that gathers together the Tooting community to share ideas about thought-provoking topics or experiences of getting lost in spellbinding narratives.
In particular, the Big Read aims to help incoming students feel welcome and settle into the university environment.
All new students to the School of Health & Medical Sciences will receive the same book - the Big Read book chosen for each academic year, when they enrol.
A limited number of copies will also be made available for returning students and staff on a first come, first served basis.
A programme of events around the themes of the book will help you to meet new people, get to know your teachers and peers beyond the classroom and make the most of your university experience.
Join Dr Glenda Cooper and Dr Ayesha Ahmad for an engaging session where we’ll explore the tough ethical decisions journalists face when interviewing people in trauma.
The 2024 Big Read book was 'Everything is Everything: A Memoir of Love, Hate & Hope' by Clive Myrie.
The 2023 Big Read book was  "Hello World - How to be Human in the Age of the Machine" by author Professor Hannah Fry.
The Big Read 2021 book was "The Private Joys of Nnenna Maloney" by Okechukwu Nzelu.
The 2020 Big Read book was "Airhead" by Emily Maitlis.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-experience/peer-academic-mentoring-support.aspx:
Peer Academic Mentoring Support (PAMS) is a structured programme designed to offer additional academic support to students as they navigate their first year in their university journey.
Recognizing that the transition to university life can sometimes feel overwhelming, especially for first-year students, PAMS connects them with peer mentors from the second or third year who understand their experiences and can provide meaningful guidance and support.
PAMS focuses on creating opportunities for students to support one another, academically, in meaningful ways.
Through this programme, peer mentors offer friendly guidance, encouragement, and valuable insights to help mentees navigate their university journey.
By formalising the natural, informal connections that often develop among students, PAMS ensures a supportive structure where everyone involved can thrive and grow.
The PAMS is being piloted in selected undergraduate programmes from February to July 2025.
Each mentor will be paired with up to 5 mentees, ensuring personalised and effective academic support.
Mentors are required to meet with each mentee for one hour per week over a period of 10 weeks, resulting in a total of 10 hours of interaction per mentee.
Key Dates
Peer mentoring fosters a strong sense of belonging within the university community and enriches the university experience for both mentees and mentors.
Benefits to Mentee:
Benefits to Mentor:
Becoming a Mentor
For the 2024-2025 academic year, student academic mentors will be selected exclusively from the current pool of Student Ambassadors and student advisors .
The application process for the 2024-2025 Student Ambassador cycle is now closed.
If you’re interested in future opportunities to become a mentor, we encourage you to register your interest using this form .
We’ll notify you via email when applications reopen or if similar roles become available.
Job Description: PAMS JD August 20241
Becoming a Mentee
If you’d like to participate as a mentee, please email us at studentpartnership@sgul.ac.uk to express your interest.
Contact Us
For any questions or additional information about the PAMS programme, please reach out to us at studentpartnership@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-experience/education-ideas-hub.aspx:
Through a series of lunchtime sessions, the Education Ideas Hub showcases engaging discussions on current topics and research at City St George's as well as  the work and impact of the Student-Staff Partnership Grants teams.
The Grants offer funding for students and staff to collaboratively design and lead projects that enhance student experience at City St George’s.
We have several exciting sessions coming up for EIH 2024-25!
You can find the details below.
Stay tuned and join us to engage in insightful discussions and collaborations.
These sessions
The Education Ideas Hub lunchtime series are usually scheduled on Wednesdays, between 12:00 and 13:00 on the Education Ideas Hub MT site .
You can also find the meeting link to join EIH 2024-25 sessions below.
Due to speakers' engagements, the times may vary from time to time.
We encourage students and staff to register for each session here .
but you can also join on the day by going to the Education Ideas Hub MT site or using the meeting links provided under the project descriptions.
Previous Education Ideas Hub events have included showcasing how staff and students have successfully published in partnership and interactive sessions about whether leadership development should be part of a transformative curriculum.
If you want to hear first about these sessions, register to the mailing list here .
For any questions about the Eduction Ideas Hub or the Student-Staff Partnership Grants, contact the Student partnership officer at studentpartnership@sgul.ac.uk
Speaker: Lucy Baxter, Achele Agada, Halia Shah , Sonia Elks
Date & Time: 16/04/2025 12.00-13.00
Location: MS Teams Meeting - Health Inequalities: Student Teaching Preferences Perspective
Blurb: Current approaches to teaching about health inequalities are diverse in content and approach.This project aims to develop and deliver an investigation into healthcare students’ perspectives on health inequalities teaching on all health care programmes within City St George’s School of Health and Medical Sciences.
Speaker: Emerald Essuman, Kajan Kailayanathan, Saranne Weller , Jennifer Stott
Date & Time: 30/04/2025 12.00-13.00
Location: MS Teams Meeting - Developing Learning-centred Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET)
Blurb: When used effectively, student evaluation of teaching should be the start of a conversation between students and staff about how to learn and how together we can improve the experience of learning and teaching.
Too often low response rates and lack of engagement with the feedback can undermine this work.
The aim of this project is to develop formative evaluation tools for educators that foster student metacognition and evaluative judgement to enrich these conversations for students and staff working together to enhance teaching.
This session will present some of the strategies and share the outcomes of piloting the tools with students.The session will be led by the student project leads Emerald Essuman, Year 2 BSc Radiotherapy and Oncology and Kajan Kailayanathan, Year 3 BSc Clinical Pharmacology with input from Dr Saranne Weller, Reader in Higher Education Practice and Development and Dr Jennifer Stott, Senior Lecturer in Molecular Pharmacology.
Speaker: Ella Pakoglu , Veronica Carroll
Date & Time: 07/05/2025 12.00-13.00
Location: MS Teams Meeting - Accessible Bioinformatics for Science Education
Blurb: Bioinformatics tools are commonly used in science practice and education, but students with specific learning differences (SpLDs), including ADHD, face particular challenges when navigating these tools, which impacts their learning and achievement.
The goal of this project is to gain a better understanding of accessibility barriers for this group of students when using bioinformatics tools in class.
Our aim is to increase awareness across science programme teams about obstacles faced by neurodivergent students and to make recommendations on how to improve accessibility when designing learning tasks.
The session is led by Y2 Biomedical Science student, Ella Pakoglu, with Dr Veronica Carroll, Senior Lecturer in Vascular Biology.
Speaker: Laura Byrne , Michael Allcock
Date & Time: 14/05/2025 12.00-13.00
Location: MS Teams Meeting - Tackling HIV Stigma in Healthcare Education
Blurb: This project aims to tackle HIV-related stigma early in the careers of our healthcare students at City St George's.
We know that despite major improvements in the care people living with HIV receive, they still face stigma day to day; regrettably this is also true in a healthcare setting, leading to many of those living with HIV feeling apprehension around accessing healthcare.
To tackle this stigma, we have worked with Terence Higgins trust and their HIV Ambassadors to bring the experiences of those living with HIV into the curricula of patient-facing courses via face to face workshops, along with online resources and the dissemination of an e-Learning to help staff on these courses improve their knowledge and confidence when talking around HIV & HIV-related stigma.
Speaker: Deborah Padfield, Priya Odedra, Nithya Balchandra and Rowan Wilson
Date & Time: 28/05/2025 12.00-13.00
Location: MS Teams Meeting - Creative engagement for equitable homeless healthcare
Blurb: Homelessness has significantly increased in the last decade, leading to alarming health disparities and life expectancies in the 40s.
Recent healthcare graduates report feeling unprepared to address these needs due to limited curriculum exposure.
Creative approaches have been shown to improve student engagement and empathy toward patients, whilst enhancing well-being and agency for homeless individuals.
This project combines arts and healthcare education to address curriculum gaps and gain insights into lived experiences of homelessness.In collaboration with ‘Evolve’, a local housing and support charity, surveys will assess perspectives on current teaching and experiences of homeless individuals.
A focus group and art workshop will foster connection and self-expression.
Outputs include co-created artwork, a compassionate care checklist, and an online resource hub.
Curriculum recommendations aim to promote equitable and informed healthcare by equipping future providers with skills to better serve homeless communities.Dr Deborah Padfield is a Reader in Arts & Health Humanities and Director of Open Spaces at City St George’s with expertise in co-design and co-production of creative interventions.
Priya, Nithya, and Rowan are graduate medical students passionate about integrating arts in healthcare education
Speaker: Katie Campion, Emmanuel Nzeyimana
Date & Time: 04/06/2025 12.00-13.00
Location: MS Teams Meeting - Exploring inclusion: This is Us
Blurb: This project explores the felt experience of inclusion using Experience Based Co-design (EBCD).
The project team were aware of the differences between the intention of creating an inclusive learning environment vs the felt experience.
EBCD involves interviewing people and creating a catalyst film which is then shown at the joint event.
This is where students and staff come together to decide collectively on some aspects they could tackle together to improve things.
They then form small co-design groups, ideate, prototype, and eventually bring their outputs to the celebration event.
Speaker: Efthymia Papaevangelou, Yasmin Ahmed, Ikran Salah
Date & Time: 11/06/2025 12.00 -13.00
Location: MS Teams Meeting - Promoting environmental sustainability as part of inclusive education
Blurb: This project focuses on reducing the environmental impact of research laboratories at City St George's in response to the climate crisis.
Key themes include carbon footprint reduction, energy efficiency, waste management, and sustainable sourcing of materials.
The university aims to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, with laboratories contributing significantly to energy use and waste generation.
The project will develop comprehensive sustainability training for students and staff, addressing challenges identified through surveys.
The training will promote sustainable practices, including waste reduction and recycling.
This initiative is crucial for those in academic research, facilities management, and sustainability roles, as it fosters long-term environmental responsibility.
Dr.
Papaevangelou is a Lecturer in Cellular Pharmacology at SGUL, specialising in cancer biology and treatment.
She leads various modules in the BSc Clinical Pharmacology program and supervises student projects.
She has more than 15 years laboratory-based experience and her research focuses on immunotherapies and combination therapies for cancer.
Speaker: Ali Raja, Katerina Cheliotis, Luqman Hamed, Mohammed Malida, Rachel Fowden-Hulme, Marianne O'Connor, Michelle Esmati, Emma Metters and Roaa Al-Bedaery
Date & Time: Sept – Date TBC
Location: MS Teams Meeting - Supporting WP medical students to thrive
Blurb: There have been many national interventions to increase access to university, however there is evidence to suggest a discrepancy in outcomes during university studies between WP and non-WP students.
This project used a participatory action research (PAR) model to compare both the lived experiences and financial challenges experienced by City St George’s WP medical students with what is known in the literature, and to collaboratively develop student-led interventions to support existing and future WP students to thrive.
Speakers: Jared Bhaskar, Will Ansley, Arya Kamyab, Claire Spiller
Speakers: Anna Curtis, Claire Spiller
Speakers: Rosie MacLachlan, Tamari-Rose Nyakunengwa,
Team: George Hadjiyiannakis, Chantal Salira, Student Parents and Carers Empowered (SPACE) Society
Speakers: Yuti Khare, James Sullivan-McHale, Roaa Al-bedaery, Shehla Baig
Team: Roaa Al-bedaery, Pedro Elston
The first module of MBBS 5 has been transformed to show narratives that represent the diversity of the patient and healthcare community, including featuring more health professionals from the health care team.This is a qualitative study with MBBS 5 Year 1 to see if these narratives are eliciting in students the sense of being part of an inclusive, multi-professional community at the start of their time with us, or whether further work needs to be done regarding our strategy.
Speakers: Jonathan De Oliviera, Connor Togher, Naireen Asim, Roaa Al-bedaery, Shehla Baig
In the US, this has resulted in a parallel curriculum, whereby strategic preparation using commercial resources are favoured over engaging in the intended curriculum, which focuses more broadly on the professional capabilities of students.
Speakers:  Tamari Nyakunengwa, MBBS5 Year 3, President of Athena SWAN society, George Hadjiyiannakis and Chantal Salira, MBBS5 Year 2, SU Equality & Diversity officers
This year for International Women’s Day, president of St George’s Athena SWAN and the SU Equality & Diversity officers collaborated to produce a four-part video series entitled 'International Women's Week 2021'.
They interviewed notable students and staff to gain accounts on their experiences as women in leadership and the work they feel still needs to be done both institutionally and socially for gender equality.
This talk summarises the campaign’s main findings and uses clips from the interviews to facilitate discussions on being the only woman in the room, the increased caring responsibilities for women during COVID, and the lack of access to childcare for women in the workplace, specifically at George’s.
The team aim to apply for a Student-Staff Partnership Grant to further develop their work towards supporting childcare needs for staff and student parents with the aim of supporting gender equality at George’s and fostering a healthy working environment for all.
Speakers: Dr.
Penelope Murphy, Senior Lecturer in Physiology, Pierre George Kostanteen, MBBS5 Year 2, Arvand Vahedi, MBBS5  Year 2, Sai Selvarajan, Biomedical Science Year 2
Emma Metters, MBBS Careers tutor and Arabella Watkins, medicine student, set out to enhance the careers resources to produce video profiles of doctors and healthcare professional in different specialities at different stages of their career.
Come and find out how they got on and how these resources will be invaluable to the student body.
Speakers: Dr John Hammond, Associate Professor, Joint Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education, Niko Brenner, BSc Physiotherapy Year 3
Team: Caspian Priest, MBBS4 Year 3, Amelia Fraser-Dale, MBBS5 Year 2, Margot Turner, Senior Lecturer in Diversity and Medical Education
Margot Turner has taken part in the Student Staff Partnership grant a couple of times and is going to share her insight on her projects that she ran in collaboration with students.
Using an interdisciplinary approach, Margot’s projects emphasises the role that St George’s can play to empower people to influence and improve societies and communities.
This session will discuss the Black History Month exhibition and work being done to address honour-based violence, family rituals and forced marriages.
Speakers: Angela Kubacki, Head of Clinical Communication, John Ward, MBBS5 F Year
Team: Fiona Cairns, Widening Participation Manager, Naz Hussain, Associate Director of Marketing and Student Recruitment, Dr Laura Byrne, MBBS Admissions Tutor, Sarah Waygood, Senior Lecturer Physiotherapy
Speakers: Jane Cronin-Davis, Hamzah Niaz
This session will draw on the experience of developing a SSPG project aiming to increase awareness about the various resources and services that can offer help and support students dealing with mental health issues.
The project was fundamental to obtaining valuable data in understanding the prevalence of mental illness among all students, from all courses, as well as learning about what barriers prevent students from accessing certain services on offer.
During the session, Jane and Hamzah will discuss the key findings from their university-wide survey as well as the impact of this project for the future of mental health and wellbeing at St George's.
Dr Judith Ibison and medicine student Corey Briffa in collaboration with other students and staff across the university, led an interdisciplinary project to review leadership teaching for St George’s undergraduate students.
Come and hear what they found out, what legacy their project will leave and share your insights on leadership in higher education.
Speakers: Dr.
Emma Metters, Senior Lecturer in Primary Care and Medical Education, Hannah Gyekye-Mensah, MBBS5
This project enhanced careers resources by producing and evaluating video profiles of doctors and healthcare professionals in different specialities and at different stages in their careers.
The project group will present the two years of the project which have received SSPG funding, including the initial student survey, the video resources and infographics that have been produced and the final project evaluation and student feedback.
There are now plans to develop the project across other programmes.
Come along to find out more!
Speakers: Aileen O’Brien, Dean for Students, Daniya Khalid, BSc Biomedical Science Year 3, Samia Tajbiha, BSc Biomedical Science Year 2
Team: Dr Darren Bell, Psychiatrist, Dr Izzy Mark, Psychiatrist, Lon Teija, Education & Welfare Support Officer
Speakers: Brogan Guest, Lecturer in Physician Associate Studies, Vicky Roebuck, MPAS Year 1
Speakers : Dr Olga Rodriguez Falcon, Lecturer in Learning Development, CIDE, Hauwa Hakimi Muhammad, BSc Biomedical Science Year 2
Team : Dr Ferran Valderrama, Reader in Cancer Cell Biology
Speakers: Angela Kubacki, Head of Clinical Communication, Leo Hudson, MBBS4 P Year, Jennifer Collom, MBBS4 P Year
Team: Laura Yalley-Ogunro, Lecturer in Clinical Communication, Hannah Hart, Clinical & Communication Skills Coordinator, The Clinical Communication Team
Speakers : Judith Ibison, Corey Briffa, Salina Khan,  Maxim Minakov
In 2019-20, this SSPG project reviewed the leadership curricula of all Courses and interviewed Course Directors about the delivery of teaching on leadership skills.
The team also ran focus groups for students about their knowledge and skills with respect to leadership competencies and their views on what was needed.
One of the most interesting findings was that few students self-identified as future leaders, at this stage of training.
During the session, the team will present more findings from the project with a view to stimulating shared thinking across St George's Courses about how we can further develop St George's learners for their current and future leadership roles.
Speakers: Hannah Cock, Ellie Corkerry
Team Name: Kevin Hayes, Katie Perkins, Kajal Patel, Lola Arowoshola, Zhenya (Yevgnia) Nerukh
MBBS Course Director and MBBS5 P year student Ellie will outline how this project aims to improve student assessment literacy and experience as well as support students who have failed assessments with their decision making and navigation of their options.
The final product will be based on student personal experiences and staff expertise and be presented in written, visual and interactive formats.
Whilst using examples from medicine, the work will be applicable to any SGUL course to improve understanding about how to support students in relation to failed assessments and guide the academic staff who advise them.
Speakers: Laura Byrne, MBBS Admissions Tutor, Navandeep Thumber, MBBS4 P Year
Team: Grace Poole, MBBS5 F Year, Naomi Melamed, MBBS4, F Year, Reeja Premjee, MBBS5, Intercalation Year
Team: Karima Zitouni, PBL facilitator, Ibrahim Basar, MBBS4 Year 1, Sophie Ridge, MBBS4 Year 1, Tessa Rosendahl, MBBS4 Year 1, Ioannis Nikolaou, MBBS4 Year 1, Henry Stone, MBBS4 Year 1, Sophia Ehsani, MBBS4 Year 1, Megan Wright, MBBS4 Year 1.
Speakers: Julie Hendry, Course Director Therapeutic Radiography, Corneliu Cazacu, BSc Therapeutic Radiography Year 2
Team: Benita Thomas, BSc Therapeutic Radiography Year 2, Charlotte Lam, BSc Therapeutic Radiography Year 1
Speakers: Prof.
This is a project aimed to improve the sustainability of SGUL.
Speakers: Angela Kubacki, Head of Clinical Communication, James Sullivan-McHale, MBBS5 Year 2, Aditya Dhiran, MBBS5 Year 2, Nathan McNamara, MBBS5 Year 2, Hussein Abu Rabia, MBBS5 Year 2
Speakers: Jeff Saddington-Wiltshire, Student Engagement Officer, Sarah Jones, VP Education&Welfare
Team: Ify Osefoh, BSc Biomedical Science, Year 3, Lola Arowoshola, MBBS5 P Year, Maye Jabi, MBBS5 P Year, Ogor Babundo, MBBS5 T Year, SU General Secretary), Sam Mountain, BSc Paramedic Science Year 1

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-experience/student-voice/home.aspx:
Here at St George’s, University of London, we value and actively encourage all students to share their experiences, perceptions and ideas of how we might improve every aspect of the educational journey.
We gather student opinion on learning, teaching, learning resources, student support, and university experience via the National Student Survey (NSS) ,  the Student Experience Survey (SES) , the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) , the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) and  the Student Online Teaching Survey (SOLTS) .
At the same time, students can give feedback and raise issues in real-time via Unitu , St George's student voice online platform.
We feedback the actions taken through multiple communication channels: the student newsletter, posters, banners, digital screens, St George's and the Student Union social media channels.
At St George's we use a variety of surveys to capture the students' views on multiple aspects of their programme/ course experience.
Unitu is your digital student voice platform.
It is an online space where students, year representatives and staff can collectively raise, discuss and resolve issues.
Our Student-Staff Committees serve as a vital platform where students and staff can come together to address various academic and administrative matters.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/your-academic-life/home.aspx:
Here you'll find a list of all of our taught courses.
By taking part in this award, you will be able to create a personalised digital portfolio that you can take with you when you graduate.
Advice for students about the operation of all St George's student procedures.
Tips and guidance for succeeding in your studies, from how to study to how university works.
Find out more about the Erasmus+ programme for studying in a European country.
Learn how to build an online timetable and book private or group study spaces.
Find out the details for your graduation day.
Access to technology important in ensuring your can take part in your studies correctly and efficiently.
Find out what tech support is available to our students to help them access what they need.
Guidance on interrupting or withdrawing from your studies.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-education-centres/centre-for-technology-in-education/our-technologies-and-services/technology-guidance-and-support-for-students.aspx:
To get the most from your studies, you will need your personal computer or laptop, and an internet connection in your home (should you be required to access some of your learning from home).
If you are looking to purchase a new laptop, we have detailed student laptop requirements .
All CIty St George’s students have the ability to use Office 365 as part of our institutional license, and to access City St George’s software via AppsAnywhere (Windows only).
In addition, we offer Office for Mac via office365, but only the following applications are available for Mac: Teams, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, OneNote.
Web-based Office applications are available on Mac.
To ensure that you are prepared for this and that you have the available resource and support, we have created a dedicated support area for students on where you can learn more and view instructions on how to access these technologies.
View Learning technology quick guides for students for details.
Additionally, a large proportion of students already have access to City St George’s Tablets via a loan option.
This is particularly useful for engaging with many aspects of your learning e.g., participating in placement-related assessments, accessing Canvas and other learning resources, and watching learning videos, etc.
We understand that it will not be possible for all students to meet our laptop requirements and so will be loaning laptops to the following priority groups:
For more information, or to apply for a laptop or tablet loan, please follow this link: Laptop and tablet loans (sgul.ac.uk) .
Please visit the Quick Guides for Students in Canvas to access guidance on how to engage with the various learning technologies that might be useful for your learning experience.
For example, short step-by-step guidance on the following:
And more can be found in the Quick Guides .
Read&Write is a simple toolbar designed to help users understand, learn and express themselves with confidence.
The software has a number of tools to help with learning such as reading text out loud, understanding unfamiliar words and proofing written work, as well as features supporting research and composition.
These tools may be particularly useful for students with Specific Learning Difficulties or for those whose first language is not English, but anyone can potentially find it helpful.
Find out how to access Read&Write , and guidance on how to use Read&Write on our Canvas pages.
It is possible that you may have an online learning activity while on-campus.
Private study spaces
Should you have a need to find a quiet place where you can comfortably access your online learning activity e.g.
a live online lecture, online group work, etc.
please make use of the private study spaces across the campus, details of which you can find at room booking and timetabling for students .
When in any of these rooms, please ensure that you are using your headset/headphones and be considerate to others by keeping the volume of your voice low when studying in the main computer room.
Individual study pods
Individual study pods are available in the library for use 24/7 and can be booked online via Library Bookings.
Connecting to WiFi
Please read the guidance on how to connect to the WIFI on-campus , to connect your mobile device.
You can access the guidance relating to exams, including the SharePoint area for past exam papers on the assessment support page
LockDown Browser is a secure browser installed on all CSGUL PCs that is primarily used for taking online onsite exams.
While using LockDown browser, users cannot copy and paste or browse other web pages online.
You may be asked to download and install LockDown browser on your own Windows or MacOS laptop should there be a requirement for you to sit an exam remotely.
A preparatory module has been developed on Canvas to allow you to try the LockDown Browser environment before your exam.
Please visit the Online Exams at City St George's, University of London Canvas module for detailed information and guidance.
If you have not already done so, please self-enrol onto the module as soon as possible to engage with the content.
The module will provide you with the necessary information and support to prepare for your exams.
It includes frequently asked questions, key contacts and how to prevent and resolve internet connectivity issues.
It also provides the download link for City St George’s version of LockDown Browser and an opportunity for you to take a short practice quiz using the browser.
Once you have completed the exams preparation module in Canvas, you will have the opportunity to ask questions and/or provide feedback, particularly around functionality and any issues that you have encountered, in the discussion forum within the module.
University policy is that all live teaching should be recorded and made available to students in Panopto within 3 working days unless an opt-out has been authorised in advance.
The University’s live teaching recording policy is available to read online.
If you notice that a recording is not available or is of poor quality, please raise this with your course administrator or report this to Learning Technology Services .
Online support for Canvas is available 24/7 from the Canvas main menu.
Support agents can assist with a number of issues, and those that cannot be resolved immediately are referred to Learning Technology Services to address during business hours.
Learning Technology Services is available on weekdays from 9am until 5pm to support you with learning technology including: Canvas, Panopto, PebblePad, Office 365.
Feel free to drop into the LTS Office in the library or contact LTS by email .
For problems with your IT account, e.g.
inability to log in, access email, access Wi-Fi, please contact ITAV by email .
Face-to-Face IT support is also available on weekdays between 12 and 2pm.
The table below shows all the areas on Tooting campus in which charging facilities for devices are available for use by students, and details the type of charging sockets or cables available in each area.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/your-academic-life/exams/home.aspx:
Welcome to the Examinations Page which is maintained by the Registry Examinations Office.
You will find general information about St George’s examinations on this page as well as contact details for the team.
Current St George’s students may access the Online Exams Canvas module for further information and practice papers.
You can view the schedule of exams for the current academic year.
This will inform you of the dates of your exams and should correspond to information given by your Course Team.
For student who may have a disability or Specific Learning Difficulty, you can find information about the process of applying for additional arrangements in your exams.
Student should make themselves aware of these documents which are relevant to taking assessments at St George’s, University of London.
Are you dealing with unexpected challenges?
Have these impacted your ability to study or complete assessments?
Find out how to let us know and how we can support you.
These documents lay out the assessment structure of your course/year along with the various requirements to pass and consequences of failure.
For information regarding the policies and processes about appeals and discretionary attempts
These documents lay out the structure of your course/year and key information.
Questions which have been asked frequently about exam formats, process and guidance during before and after your exam.
What makes a good invigilator at St George’s and how do you become one?
Find out how to contact the office should you have a query.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/your-academic-life/term-dates/home.aspx:
BSc/MSc Healthcare Practice, MSc Advanced Clinical Practice, BSc Paramedic Practice, FdN Heathcare Practice (Nursing Associates)
If you are enrolled on a one of these programmes, please refer to the separate communications you have received/will receive from your programme team.
If you are taking standalone modules please refer to our course directory here: https://www.healthcare.ac.uk/courses/workforce-development/module-list/ .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/your-academic-life/graduation/home.aspx:
Our next graduation ceremonies will be taking place on 21 & 30 July 2025 ; ceremony schedules are noted below.
Ceremony 2 (10am)
Postgraduate courses:
The booking system will open in March; invitations to register will be issued by email.
Students eligible to attend ceremonies this summer are those who have received awards between 8 July 2024 and 8 July 2025 (processed and updated in SITS)
Each ceremony will last approximately 2 hours, and will be followed by a reception for all graduates and guests in the Barbican Foyers.
Graduates should register at the ticket collection desk 2 hours prior to their ceremony start, to allow sufficient time for ticket collection, robing and photography.
While registering for your graduation ceremony you can also book up to 3 guest tickets (£27.50 per ticket; any additional guest tickets, if available, will be released for sale after the registration deadline has passed), and hire your gown.
Official photographers will be present at all ceremonies to take photos of you and any accompanying guests on the day (no pre-booking required for these photography sessions).
Should you have any queries, please contact: graduation@sgul.ac.uk .
The graduation ceremonies are held at the Barbican, in the Barbican Hall.
Find out how to book tickets for you and your family and friends.
Details on how to hire your gown and what to wear on the day.
Find out how to get your photos, videos and souvenirs from the day.
Information about what will happen on the day of your graduation ceremony, including key timings.
Here you'll find the questions about graduation we're asked the most.
Watch a recording of previous graduation ceremonies.
Here are our contact details for any further questions.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/your-academic-life/student-conduct-and-compliance/home.aspx:
These guides provide detailed information about St George's, University of London student procedures.
We provide advice to students and staff about the operation of all St George's student procedures.
Guidance for investigating officers, presenting officers and members of hearing committees to give an idea of what to expect if asked to take on these roles.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/your-academic-life/learning-development-and-studyplus/home.aspx:
Our team of learning development lecturers work with both students and teaching staff to support students' learning within their program, helping them identify their development needs and the best ways to address them.
We believe the adjustment to new levels of study and the development of personalised learning skills are crucial to the success of all students in higher education
Apart from providing consultancy and support to teaching staff on developing students’ learning, we also manage the student-facing part of CIDE, known as StudyPlus or the Academic Success Centre.
From 2024 onwards, we are using ‘StudyPlus’ to refer to all our student-facing activities to provide greater clarity for students.
We provide academic staff development and curriculum development advice for new and existing courses, with a particular focus on how to design in/integrate support for academic study and writing within a programme.
We are always happy to discuss queries related to inclusive teaching, assessment and feedback literacy, or developing students’ learning, via email or in person with individual staff or programme teams.
We offer one-to-one appointments with students, in person or online, throughout the year.
These cover a range of topics, most commonly effective study and revision, academic writing and working with feedback.
All students can book up to three appointments per year (with at least two weeks between appointments), although for students in particular need this may be increased at our discretion.
We also run the Study+ Canvas module , with self-access study resources on a range of topics.
The most popular of these include learning effectively from lectures, academic writing and referencing.
Students on all courses are enrolled automatically when they log onto Canvas, and content is generic to be applicable to all.
If you have feedback on this content or ideas for new things we should include please contact us.
We offer sessions supporting students with the transition to new levels of study, and preparing for written assessments, across most undergraduate and many postgraduate programmes.
These sessions are co-designed and co-delivered with programme teams, and are tailored to the specific requirements of your cohort and curriculum.
Get in touch if you would like to discuss introducing new or additional sessions within your programme.
Teach@sgul.ac.uk This is how staff should get in touch (if not directly)
Studyplus@sgul.ac.uk This one is for students to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/registry/timetabling/staff-and-students/room-booking-and-timetabling-for-students.aspx:
Students should view their timetables on Canvas.
Students can also view a live timetable of activities by Module, Programme of Study or Location via the SWS link https://scientia-live.sgul.ac.uk/SWS/
You can use the following for private and group study space when not in use for teaching/staff ad-hoc bookings.
HW1.1, H1.2, H1.3, H1.4, H1.5, H1.6, H1.7 - Available 24 hours.
Food and drink permitted.
Please use the bin stations outside the rooms.
Capacity 11.
H4.11, H4.12, H4.13, H4.14, H4.15, H4.16, H4.19, H4.20, H4.21, H4.22 - Please note that this space is currently closed until further notice.
Please look out for further updates via email on our Hunter Wing spaces.
J1.1 (50), J1.10 (15), J1.11 (15), J1.12 (40), J1.13 (40), J1.4 (40), J1.5 (40), J1.6 (15), J1.7 (15), J1.8 (40) - Available 24 hours.
No food permitted; covered drinks only.
Collect a key from SGUL security for use before 8am and after 6pm.
Capacities in brackets.
JB.10, JB.17, JB.18, JB.2, JB.4, JB.6, JB.8 - Available 9am-6pm, Monday to Friday.
Capacity 10.
J1.9 (flexible study space with workstations) - Available 9am-10pm Monday to Friday, 9am -4.30pm Saturday and Sunday.
No food or drinks permitted.
Students are asked to vacate 15 minutes before a scheduled teaching session starts, or for those rooms which close at  5pm or 6pm ensure you are prepared to leave 15 minutes before closing.
You can check availability of all the rooms using the SWS timetable service
Clinical Skills Practice Room -  5th floor Hunter Wing (H5.6).
Please note  this space is currently closed until further notice.
Booking space
First floor Jenner Wing teaching rooms (except J1.9) can be booked for SU societies after 1700 Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, and from 1300 on Wednesday.
SU societies can also book meeting rooms Lecture Theatres A, B, C, F, Monckton.
Please note H2.3 and H2.4, H2.6, H2.7 and 2.8 is currently closed until further notice.
All bookings for students and SU societies must be arranged via SU Room Bookings .
The booking service opening hours are Monday to Friday 0900-1700.
The service is closed at weekends, bank holidays and Christmas closure week.
Requests for the weekend must be made before midday on the Friday preceding the weekend.
Hunter Wing first floor base rooms can only be booked after 6pm on week days or any time at weekends (note venues are not available during Christmas closure week or on Bank Holidays).
Venues are allocated for a maximum of 4-hours for SU societies or a maximum of 2-hours for private or group study space.
Bookings for private or group study space must be made in the name of the person using the room.
A key for the venue will need to be signed out to the person named on the booking from security.
Consecutive same day bookings are not permitted.
There are screens around the University which display the times when the rooms are available.
Properties of all rooms, including capacities can be viewed here

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/generative-ai-guidance-for-students.aspx:
City St George’s is exploring the opportunities and challenges presented by generative AI.
We appreciate the importance of students learning to use generative AI appropriately and effectively, but we expect students to use these tools in an ethical and responsible way.
This is an important part of learning and academic integrity.
Our guidance for students is outlined below.
Here you can find information on using generative AI during your time at City St George’s.
It includes guidance on what generative AI is, its strengths and limitations you need to be aware of, and the situations where you can, and cannot, use generative AI.
Generative AI refers to tools that create new content such as text, images, video, audio, code or synthetic data.
They use sophisticated machine learning algorithms that learn from vast amounts of data to produce new content that is similar to what they've learned.
Essentially, these algorithms analyse existing content, such as text or images, and then use that information to generate new content in response to requests, known as prompts, from people.
The chatbot style interfaces used by these technologies are designed to simulate a human conversation, with text responses that appear human-like because they were trained on content written by people.
However, this capability can sometimes blur the lines between human and machine interactions, potentially leading to misunderstandings or over-reliance on automated systems.
It’s important to remain aware that, despite their sophistication, these tools lack genuine understanding and should be used with care.
Generative AI tools have several limitations due to their lack of understanding of the content they produce which can lead to misinformation, bias and an absence of ethical judgement.
The content generated is based on predicting the next plausible word or sentence and they are trained to give responses that people like rather than responses that are necessarily accurate.
This can result in:
It is important that you understand the limitations and use your developing professional judgement to check the factual accuracy and appropriateness of the content produced.
AI-generated content should be used together with the learning resources provided by your module tutor and other trustworthy sources.
Generative AI may be used to support your learning.
You may find it useful to use generative AI to clarify key concepts or understanding, or to ask you questions based on your revision notes.
To ensure the outputs from generative AI are useful, you will need to give it sufficient detail to support your request, for example including the level you are studying and the context.
You must ensure that you review carefully the response you receive for accuracy, reliability and credibility.
We expect students to use generative AI tools in an ethical and responsible way.
One aspect of this is that you must be aware of the limitations of these tools, in terms of reliability and bias, and ensure that you use generative AI to support your learning, rather than do your learning for you.
Do not use generative AI tools as a replacement for the resources supplied by your module tutor.
Learning to make effective, critical and ethical use of generative AI tools is an important skill as part of preparing for your career.
Learning to use AI, understanding its strengths and weaknesses, may also become a useful employability skill and you may find some modules will embed the use of AI into assessments and other activities.
When it comes to using AI as part of an assessment, the University’s default position is that you must not use generative AI tools for assessment, unless you have been instructed to do so by your module tutor or programme director.
Guidance about what is permitted will be provided as a clear written statement, which may be found in the assessment details, handbook or on the Virtual Learning Environment.
It is important to follow this guidance provided adhere to the principles of academic integrity and misconduct .
If you are permitted to use generative AI for your assessment, you are expected to it responsibly and ethically.
This includes being aware of its limitations, acknowledging the use of generative AI in your work, and using it to support your own original work.
The University requires that all work submitted for assessment is your own original work, or in the case of group work, the original work of group members.
If your module leader has given you instructions on the use of AI for a particular assessment, you should follow these.
In the absence of any such specific instructions, the key point is that when you hand in work for an assessment, you are stating that it is your own original work.
The purpose of any assessment is to measure what you have learnt and understood from the course being assessed.
It is not possible to assess your understanding if you plagiarise, copy and paste text, use AI, paraphrasing software or essay mills.
The University sees academic integrity as very important and takes academic misconduct very seriously, seeking at all times to rigorously protect its academic standards.
Under the Academic Integrity Procedure unauthorised use of generative AI tools could be considered:
Plagiarism – where text used in the assessment is the direct output from an AI tool.
Plagiarised text which has been amended using further AI tools (e.g., paraphrasing) remains plagiarised.
The sources at the end of this message give guidance on appropriate citation of external material.
Falsification or fabrication – where the outputs from using generative AI tools have produced sources or data that do not exist.
Contract-cheating – where generative AI tools have been used to produce the whole assessment.
Any students suspected of committing academic misconduct will be actively investigated and if the misconduct is confirmed the full sanctions outlined within our Academic Integrity Procedure will apply.
Students should consult CiteThemRight for citing and referencing resources correctly.
If the output of the AI produced material is available online, you can cite this as you normally would.
If not, then you are advised to cite this as ‘personal communication’.
Refer to the guidance on citing generative AI from Cite Them Right Online (your University login is required).
Where you have been permitted to use generative AI in your assessment task, you may be asked to acknowledge how you have used generative AI, what you have used it for and to include a copy of the output generated, including relevant prompts.
Please refer to any guidance from your module tutor or programme director about requirements for acknowledging use of AI.
It is your responsibility to ensure that the reader of your work can clearly distinguish between original content created by you and content generated or inspired by generative AI and other sources.
If you use generative AI in your assessment in any way that breaches our Academic Integrity and Misconduct Policy, this may be considered to be academic misconduct.
Academic misconduct is taken very seriously, and all suspected cases will be thoroughly investigated.
As part of an academic misconduct investigation, you may be asked to disclose what generative AI tools you have used, how you have used them (including specific prompts), and you may be required to provide draft copies of your work or other relevant evidence.
It is important to understand these Guidelines and use generative AI responsibly to avoid any violations of academic integrity.
City St George’s provides Microsoft Copilot free for all students and you are recommended to use this tool:
About Copilot: Copilot uses the latest AI models, including GPT-4, so offers similar capabilities to ChatGPT-4.
It can generate text based on prompts that use text, files or images.
Accessing Copilot: You can access Microsoft Copilot at copilot.microsoft.com , through the iOS or Android app , or in the Microsoft Edge sidebar and Windows 11​.
Ensure you log in with your University credentials to keep your data secure.
Copilot privacy and security: Microsoft’s enterprise data protection is applied when you log in to Copilot with your University credentials, which means that data entered is kept private and is not used to train the underlying dataset.
As with all generative AI tools, you should not enter personal, sensitive or confidential information nor submit copyrighted materials into the tool.
Find out more about Microsoft Copilot .
There are a range of other generative AI tools available.
The most well-known is ChatGPT by OpenAI which uses a chatbot interface for users to engage with the system; however, there are other tools available, including those embedded in search engines, existing software (such as Grammarly or Office 365) and computer coding editors.
Most tools require you to create an account which may be free or come at a cost.
Free accounts are usually limited in terms of functionality or the number of times you can use the tool.
Some tools use the data you enter to train the generative AI large language model.
It is therefore important that you familiarise yourself with the privacy policy for any tools you use and do not enter any personal, sensitive or confidential information.
In addition, ensure that you do not submit any copyrighted materials into the tools.
To use generative AI, you need to provide a set of instructions, known as a prompt, for what you would like it to do.
The prompt should describe what you want the tool to perform, details of the task and any specific requirements for the output, For example:
“I am a first year Economics student in a UK university and I need to understand the concept of supply and demand, can you help me learn more about this and find useful study resources?”
Having reviewed the output, you may need to provide follow-up questions or information to help refine the information received.
Note: It is important to use your professional judgement to check the factual accuracy and appropriateness of the content produced and to use AI content in conjunction with the learning resources provided by your module tutor and other trustworthy sources, such as the Library .
Support and resources are available to assist you with appropriate use of generative AI:

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/health-and-wellbeing/home.aspx:
Read our advice for a healthy lifestyle as a student and where to find support as a pregnant or parent student.
Learn about our Counselling Service and where to find support.
Access our Staff and Student Occupational Health Service.
Read our advice for looking after yourself at university.
If you have been affected by sexual assault, harassment or violence we are here to offer you advice and support.
Find out how to report a crime or find support during a mental health crisis.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/spiritual-support/home.aspx:
Our chaplaincy are a multi-faith, multi-denominational team who offer spiritual and religious care to students as well as staff, patients and visitors.
Open to students and staff of all faiths, or non-faith, this room is a space for the main faith communities on campus.
Learn more about making alternative arrangements for your studies for religious reasons.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-life-centre/home.aspx:
The Student Life Centre is open throughout the week to help with your queries or problems.
The centre operates under common principles of service.
We welcome feedback from students and other users of our services.
Learn how to request evidence of your status as a student.
These cards serve as your library card and allow swipe access to computer rooms, labs and other facilities.
Frequently asked questions and more information about using lockers at St George's.
How to make payments to St George's, online or via bank transfer.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/disability-service/home.aspx:
City St George's warmly welcomes and supports students who are disabled or have a Specific Learning Difficulty (SpLD).
Once you have registered and provided evidence of your disability, we will contact you as soon as possible to discuss your needs.
Register with the Tooting campus Disability Service .
The disability service runs drop in sessions in the Student Life Centre , every Wednesday from 2pm to 4pm .
These sessions run every Wednesday but we will be taking a break over the summer, from 16 June until 17 September.
If you wish to speak to someone from the disability team during this time, please email us on disability@sgul.ac.uk so we can support you.
During these hours, you will be able to meet with a member of the team to discuss anything disability related, including how to register with the service, how to apply for the DSA and ask any other questions you may have.
You don’t need to book an appointment to meet with us during a drop in.
NB: The Student Life Centre has temporarily moved to the 6th floor of the Hunter Wing.
You can contact the Disability Team:
Learn more about how the disability team can help you support disabled students.
St George's has an in-house support service providing one to one specialist study skills support.
This page provides information on our charge rates and other information required by law.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/home.aspx:
Learn the basics of banking and budgeting as a student, and find out more about other sources of funding.
Guides for managing student loans, grants, bursaries and living costs.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/laptop-and-tablet-loans/home.aspx:
To address digital inequality, we have made laptops and tablets available for loan.
To apply for a device, an application form must be completed, and devices will be given to the following priority groups:
Students who meet the criteria above should complete one of the forms below.
If you do not fit into one of the above groups but think you might struggle to finance a device, please email IThardship@sgul.ac.uk to discuss the potential support options available.
When you receive your device, you should login to the pre-installed office with your St George's login to activate your license and get access to Office365.
The device:
Additional rules, include:

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/assessment-support/home.aspx:
Guidance on what generative AI is, its strengths and limitations you need to be aware of, and the situations where you can, and cannot, use generative AI.
View exam papers from previous years to help with your revision.
Read general information about St George's examinations and find contact details for the Registry Examinations Team.
This guidance concerns summative exams that are conducted online and sets out how they are to be conducted across St George’s.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/extenuating-circumstances.aspx:
Extenuating circumstances is the new term for mitigating circumstances.
This process allows students to tell the university of their situation in a confidential manner, and the university can then help to ensure the student is supported appropriately.
From Monday 2 September 2024, all undergraduate, postgraduate taught students and those studying credit-bearing short courses should submit Extenuating Circumstances through the new Extenuating Circumstances portal .
You must be logged in with your St George's account to use the portal.
Extenuating circumstances are circumstances that are unforeseen and are out of your control, which may negatively affect your performance in an assessment, for example, a recent bereavement of a relative, or an illness or injury affecting yourself.
Full information, including a list of accepted circumstances, how to apply, and examples of supporting documents can be found in the Extenuating Circumstances guidance (PDF).
We recommend you read through the guidance document before submitting a request.
You can check the status of your Extenuating Circumstance request through the MyEC page .
Please email EC@sgul.ac.uk if you need further advice or have any questions.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/peer-mental-health-support-project.aspx:
This is a pilot student/staff project led by Farah Ahmed (student) and Dr Jane Cronin-Davis (Dean for Student Welfare and Support).
The aim of the project is to provide students with the option of listening and advice sessions with a peer mental health supporter.
The peer mental health supporters are students at St George’s and have participated in a training programme to equip them with the listening skills and advice they need to support students.
Peer supporters will be supervised by staff with mental health experience.
· Students can opt to have one or more sessions with their supporter.
This project does not replace the usual mental health services or counselling services at the university.
This project is is not for crisis or emergency situations, please visit our Mental Health Emergencies page , if you need urgent help or support.
For additional support and resources please visit:

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/supporting-staff-and-students-impacted-by-current-events.aspx:
Please find below details of the ways in which you can seek support and raise concerns.
Staff at St George’s have been working to identify and support those affected by international conflict, and we encourage you to contact the Student Life Centre , Personal Tutors, programme teams, or the Counselling Service , if you need to talk to someone or seek help.
You can also use the following channels of support, should you need them:
We are also arranging training for front-line staff so they may be better prepared to support students impacted by international conflict.
St George's is committed to creating a safe, inclusive community where everyone is treated with dignity and respect, in line with our values of Collaboration, Ambition, Respect and Equity.
We are proud of the diversity of perspectives on campus but make clear in our policies and procedures that abuse, racism, religious prejudice or harassment will not be tolerated.
Staff and students are able to confidentially raise concerns and complaints through a range of channels.
There are several University staff, including Personal Tutors and Students' Union representatives, who can provide informal, confidential support, as well as formal complaint procedures.
Students can confidentially report incidences of bullying, harassment, or discrimination via our student concerns and complaints procedure .
The following organisations have provided guidance on reporting discrimination:
Staff can find information about how to report incidents of bullying, harassment or discrimination, including details of our Dignity at Work Policy and staff to approach to informally discuss concerns, on these pages.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-support-a-z.aspx:
Academic Success Centre
Bullying and harassment - report a case
Consent
Counselling services
Course administration contacts
Crime - report a case
Dignity at Study Policy and Procedure (PDF)
Disability service
Drugs and alcohol advice
Exams
Finance and funding
Health and safety handbook for students (PDF)
International Student Support
Mature student support
Mental health emergencies
Mindfulness course
Mindfulness drop-in sessions
O ccupational Health
Personal tutors
Pregnancy and maternity support
Security and safety on campus
Sexual assault or harassment
Sexual misconduct (making a complaint)
Sleep advice
Spiritual support
St George's student support network (PDF)
Student Life Centre
Student minds website
Student Union Education and Welfare support
'It's safe to talk about suicide' (PDF)
Togetherall online support service
Welfare Handbook - Student Union
Year representatives

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/contact-us.aspx:
Our team of advisers offer you support with a wide range of aspects of student life, from student finance and fees to exams, wellbeing and campus facilities.
To facilitate Ground Floor renovations for our new Student Hub the Student Life Centre has relocated to Level 6, Hunter Wing.
It will remain here until the opening of the Student Hub (expected to be May 2025).
Our opening hours are:
Email: studentlifecentre@sgul.ac.uk .
Postal address:
Student Life Centre St George's, University of London Cranmer Terrace London SW17 0RE
Telephone: 0203 897 2033.
Fax: 020 8725 0841.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/home.aspx:
When you graduate, you become part of our Alumni community.
Our Careers service will be able to offer advice and support for your future as you'll have lifelong access to careers service support once you graduate.
We are based in the library and are here to help current students and recent alumni with careers advice and support.
Access our resources and further support on our Canvas pages.
Explore Careers events and workshops
At St George’s, we have a thriving Student Ambassador scheme which is home to around 200 active students.
Find out how to join.
Find out what tools are available to assess your knowledge, skills and experiences, and the opportunities available.
We have a range of ways that you can get involved and develop your employability skills and give you evidence of these skills for future job applications.
Once you have started to explore your interests, you can take action to plan your next steps.
This is when all of your hard work in learning, researching and gaining experience really pays off.
Explore these helpful tips tailored for recent graduates navigating their job search journey.
Find out more about Graduate Outcomes, a national survey you will be asked to complete  either by email or phone 15 months after you graduate.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/top-10-careers-tips/home.aspx:
If you are a recent graduate on the hunt for a job, here are some helpful tips to guide you along the way.
Remember: St George’s graduates have the highest employment rate of any university!
Tailor your CV to your preferred industry and job roles ( Prospects.ac.uk and Target Jobs have job profiles of graduate roles and give the key skills required as well as how to apply to them and key industry job websites).
Read more:
How to apply successfully
How to write a CV
Rather than sending your CV to every role you see (as others might be), be selective and take the time to write a strong and tailored CV or application for each job you apply to.
Employers will notice if you have taken the time to do this or not.
Prioritise quality over quantity to stand out from other applicants and help you secure the right jobs you really do want.
Read through the job description/advert thoroughly, identify the skills and experience the employer is looking for, and make sure you provide evidence that you meet their requirements.
Book a careers appointment to get your CV or applications checked before you apply.
Reconnect with people from your personal and professional network (e.g.
from work placements, part time jobs, volunteering and so on) to see how they are and let them know that you are currently looking for work.
Reach out to new contacts and organisations on networking platforms – from social media to LinkedIn.
This way, you’re in a good position to find out about new opportunities faster.
LinkedIn is easy to use and can have an enormous impact on your knowledge, network and job search.
It enables you to:
Raise your profile
Connect with like-minded people with similar career interests
Find out about people and career journeys
Check what skills others have who work in the roles you would like
Follow key organisations that interest you
Find and join professional groups to stay up to date with developments in the sector and join in conversations
Post articles, examples of your work or other useful info – or comment on other peoples’ posts to show your interest.
Register with the Job Search and receive notifications.
Subscribe to the LinkedIn “ Get Hired” weekly newsletter for tips, advice and updates
Grow a professional network through others that you can nurture for live
Make sure you check how to make the most of it with these links or book an appointment with the careers team.
How to update your LinkedIn profile
Join St George's Alumni community on LinkedIn
You could also find and join professional groups or organisations on Facebook and or follow people or organisations on X (formerly Twitter).
Save th e Student have some useful tips on perfecting your LinkedIn profile.
You can also book a careers appointment via careers@sgul.ac.uk to get feedback.
Research and reflect on what types of roles and careers you’re interested in – if you’re unsure about your career, use tools like the Prospects Planner to identify your skills, interests, values, then get matched to job profiles to explore online.
Websites like Futurelearn can help you top up your skills to add to your CV from Business and Management to Health and Medicine.
To search the range across different providers also try my-mooc.
Research roles and companies – if you know what you’re interested in, get online and start researching the employers in your industry, look at job adverts, find out tips for applying, plan to get relevant experience, and reach out online to expand your networks.
Register with key job sites for your industry, Prospects.ac.uk job profiles and Sector guides can help to identify them.
You could try creating your own opportunity by reaching out speculatively to organisations, even when they aren’t advertising.
Do your research about them beforehand, so you can be clear about why you want to work for that particular organisation, what you can offer (i.e.
evidence of your relevant skills and experience) and what type of work you’d be interested in.
You might also want to think about the type of skills that employers will find particularly valuable.
For example, highlighting your IT or digital skills, and/or creating voluntary roles that would be especially valuable to small companies and charities (such as helping them with online marketing and social media to meet the needs of clients, or developing their online brand).
You might also consider doing a work experience.
Forage offers a range of virtual work experience from some top graduate employers, to help you develop skills, get an insight into what it’s like to work in your chosen sector, and prepare generally yourself for the world of professional work.
Volunteering gives you a chance to gain many of the same skills as through formal work experience, while also giving something back to an organisation or community that could benefit from your skills.
Volunteering roles could encompass anything, from helping an organisation build their website or database, to designing promotional materials or a marketing campaign.
Do-It and websites like Idealist are good starting points.
Bright Network offers three-day virtual experiences with a range of employers to discover career paths, meet employers and boost your employability.
For those looking to get more experience prior to making a medical application, GP Work Experience (run by the Royal College of General Practitioners) aims to give a fair chance for all in gaining work experience.
For additional information, advice and guidance regarding careers, explore the resources available at The National Career Service and Target Jobs .
Get ahead of the curve by preparing and practising for the types of interviews you want to secure, for example by:
video yourself answering interview questions
book a mock interview with a Careers Consultant by emailing careers@sgul.ac.uk to practice over the phone or via video link
think about how to sell yourself – create a list of potential interview questions (or view some on and type up some bulleted answers to use as main speaking points.
Dress professionally, be ready to go five minutes early, check all of your camera and audio settings ahead of time (in the case of a remote interview), and make sure you have an appropriate, uncluttered background.
Find more tips on the TargetJobs website .
In addition, some graduate recruiters were already using online assessments, such as psychometric tests, as part of their selection process.
You can practise Assessmentday.co.uk.
Find more advice on the Prospects website .
Be patient and don’t panic if employers take long to respond.
But also, do not be afraid to follow‐up to show you’re serious about the opportunity.
Good luck and don’t forget that the St George’s Careers Team offers a lifelong support after graduation.
Book an appointment by contacting careers@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/explore-your-options.aspx:
Finding a job or a career that you enjoy and suits you takes time.
It's a project with various stages.
One of the hardest tasks can be to understand and choose between the many opportunities available.
We encourage and support students to start exploring through research, networking, gaining work experience, and taking opportunities to develop skills and knowledge.
Current students have access to a wide variety of workshops, online tools and information, and one-to-one career guidance to help with exploring options.
Firstly, explore your skills and strengths and the sort of person you are.
Ask yourself what knowledge, skills and experiences you’ve gained through your degree.
Also analyse what experience you have built up from extra-curricular activities, such as clubs and societies, volunteering, hobbies and interests, independent travel or your part-time job.
As far as employers are concerned, every experience counts, so don’t overlook anything.
Then take time to explore your options by looking at the different roles, sectors and further study available to you, and the skills and experience required.
Exploring through networking adds huge value to these steps, as you can find out the reality of the options you have read about.
Use professional networking sites like LinkedIn to explore the career paths of others, such as other alumni or those working in organisations of interest to you.
Each step will take you closer to identifying where you might want to be.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/plan-your-next-steps.aspx:
Once you have started to explore your interests and options and have a few ideas, you can take action to develop your understanding further and plan your next steps.
Attend careers events and network with alumni and other people in your chosen industry to deepen your understanding of the skills and attributes you need to be successful.
Do some work experience or take up an internship to get hands-on experience.
Investigate the many ways there are to find a graduate job.
Now is also a good time to book an appointment with a careers consultant to discuss your plans.
The real skill in planning is to stay open-minded and flexible, and to give yourself the time and permission to explore, try things out and change your mind.
Say ‘yes’ to opportunities – you never know who you might meet and what you might learn!
Current students can access support online and in person to help make and carry out an action plan, and to create opportunities to get exactly where you want to be.
Book an appointment or email us .
Gaining professional work experience during your time at university is one of the most valuable things you can do to increase your employability as a graduate.
You will:
develop professional skills
increase your knowledge of the realities of a role, working environment and sector
meet lots of people with valuable insights to share.
All this will help you make informed choices as a graduate.
This could be insight weeks in Year 1, summer internships, research studentships, or placements as part of your course.
Volunteering in relevant organisations, can also be valuable, particularly in healthcare settings.
Current students can access lots of events, workshops, vacancies and information online to support successfully gaining relevant and high-quality work experience.
Make the most of social media, careers events and other networking meetings to approach employers directly and find out about their area of work and suitable opportunities.
Join and use LinkedIn to connect with employers of interest, and explore career paths of people you find interesting and inspiring.
Current students and graduates can join our alumni community on LinkedIn .
Practise making your ‘elevator pitch’ beforehand so that you are not lost for words whenever you start a professional conversation.
This is a thirty-second introduction of you, your professional background, and what you’re looking for professionally.
Remember to look on your early attempts at networking as the beginning of a learning curve.
Employers do recognise that you are human — you don’t have to be perfect first time!
Current students can access workshops and information online, as well as book face-to-face discussions to prepare and make the most of networking opportunities.
Having a plan of your next steps at the beginning of your final year is important and allows you to make the most of opportunities.
Graduate opportunities start to be advertised a year in advance.
Will you be ready?
Work experience and networking during your earlier years at university will have helped you understand your next steps.
Attending career events and workshops will help you further.
There are many ways to find a job.
Use job boards and online sites not only for ‘live’ vacancies, but also to discover new roles or potential employers you could investigate.
Looking at job descriptions will give you a feel for the sorts of skills employers are looking for.
A large number of jobs are never advertised.
You could contact an employer directly using a well-targeted speculative CV.
Current students can access one-to-one career guidance appointments to discuss next steps – whether you know what you want or if you have no idea.
You will create relevant and tangible actions plans to help you move forwards, wherever you are in your thinking.
St George’s has developed a wide range of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) using the FutureLearn platform.
These high-quality learning resources offer a chance to learn through discussion with a cohort of global learners and practicing professionals.
A full list of our courses can be found here .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/job-volunteering-opportunities.aspx:
We have a range of ways that you get involved and continue to develop your employability skills for the future.
Find part time jobs in and around London with Unitemps
Explore Student Ambassadors' roles available.
Explore the roles available at the SU and discover ways to stay in touch.
St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust welcomes volunteers as a way of involving local people in the day-to-day running of our services
Explore volunteering opportunities for St George's alumni and stay connected.
Our Team delivers clinical skills teaching to all medical undergraduates and provides an opportunity for clinicians to get involved in teaching in a quality assured educational setting.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/apply-successfully.aspx:
Once you have explored your options and made a plan, it is then time to successfully make your applications.
This is when all your hard work in improving your self-knowledge, researching various job options and gaining relevant experience really pays off.
Current students can gain support from workshops and one-to-one guidance appointments with a careers consultant to put together well-constructed, tailored CVs, cover letters and application forms, and to present your best self when face-to-face with employers.
We also offer online tools for interview practice, including video interview software, and practice psychometric tests.
When applying for an internship, a graduate role, Master’s, PhD or other opportunity, you want to know how to effectively structure your application based on a particular recruiter's requirements, each and every time.
If you have been invited to any type of interview, whether a one-to-one meeting, panel, phone, video or Skype interview, we can help you better understand the process and get yourself prepared.
We provide information on a range of selection aptitude tests (numerical, verbal, logical reasoning, situational judgement, e-tray) and access to practice questions, plus additional support where needed.
The majority of employers now use an assessment as part of their recruitment process.
Typically, it will be for a day or a half-day on the employers’ premises, and involve you taking part in four different activities, on average.
Common activities are:
a group exercise
a presentation
a case study.
Your performance in all of these areas will be assessed by the employers, to understand you and your skills in action.
Gain all the help you need to understand, prepare for and develop the key skills employers look for at assessment centres through the support offered by St George’s Careers Service.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/student-ambassadors.aspx:
Our Student Ambassadors engage in a wide array of work from student recruitment events such as Open Days, widening participation activities such as Science Stars and marketing opportunities such as Unibuddy Reps.
Our Student Ambassadors also support singular or infrequent events such as Spotlight on Science, MMIs and research events.
A Student Ambassador is a current St George’s student who represents the University in a positive manner.
Being current students, our Student Ambassadors know what it is like to attend an interview at St George’s or navigate the building for the first time.
Their lived experience is so valuable when talking to potential or current students, parents or carers, staff and external guests.
Student Ambassadors come to the role with variety of different skills and experiences.
You may have seen one of our Student Ambassadors in the light blue tshirts across campus!
Student Ambassadors are paid : the London Living Wage (£13.85 per hour) for standard work and (£14.66 per hour) for a ‘delivery rate’; such as delivering a presentation or clinical skills session.
The activities Student Ambassadors can support with are varied depending on the department.
Examples of activities and duties can include:
As a Student Ambassador, you do not need to be involved in all the above activities, and you can apply for activities based on your preference.
Training and briefing sessions are provided.
For Staff:
Please fill out the form so we can gather more information about your position before setting it up in our system.
If the form does not meet your needs or if you’d like to discuss it further, please don’t hesitate to let me know via ambassadors@sgul.ac.uk
For Student:
Each academic year, we recruit Student Ambassadors from all Undergraduate and Postgraduate programmes across all years.
The application process is incredibly competitive, but we encourage you to apply if this is a role which interests you.
It is worth noting that students should not rely on the Student Ambassador role as a regular source of income as the work is irregular and there is plenty of competition.
The Student Ambassador application for the 2024-2025 cycle is now closed.
However, if you’re interested in future opportunities, please register your interest using this form .
We’ll reach out via email when applications reopen or if other similar roles become available.
We are pleased to offer special job opportunities for Student Ambassadors.
These roles involve long-term commitments and require specific skills.
You will be working closely with a team over an extended period, engaging deeply with unique projects.
Please note that you must be a Student Ambassador to apply for these opportunities.
If you are interested, please contact the project leads using the provided information.
For any questions or further assistance, please reach out to ambassadors@sgul.ac.uk
The Opportunities are Detailed Below:
Are you passionate about your university experience and eager to share it with others?
We're looking for enthusiastic students like you to create engaging video content for our university channels, TikTok in particular!
As a Student Ambassador work on this project, you'll have the opportunity to:
Showcase campus life, events, and student experiences through video content.
Connect with fellow students and share your unique perspective.
Develop valuable skills in video production, storytelling, and content creation.
Gain exposure and recognition within the university community.
Feel free to talk or showcase whatever you find exciting about university life!
Your creativity and enthusiasm are what make our community vibrant.
Please contact Giulia Sparacino at gsparaci@sgul.ac.uk if you are interested.
Unibuddy is an online chat platform where prospective students can ask current students about what life at St George's is really like.
It's an opportunity for us to showcase the authentic voice of our university community.
As a Unibuddy ambassador you will answer queries from students in 1 to 1 chats and act as a role model for future students.
You can also get involved in Unibuddy Community, a forum for St George's offer holders, to answer questions and encourage conversations.
If you're interested in becoming a Unibuddy ambassador, please mark your preference on the student ambassador application form.
The process for signing up for a shift is as follows:
Please note that signing up does not automatically guarantee selection for the position.
Due to high demand, we often receive more applications than there are available spots for each event.
As a result, not all applicants will be selected for every event they sign up for.
We generally operate on a first-come, first-served basis, but sometimes specific skills are required for certain roles.
Additionally, if a student has signed up for too many shifts, we may consider offering the opportunity to other candidates to ensure fairness.
We will make every effort to notify you promptly if you are selected for a shift.
Notifications are generally sent one week prior to the event.
After your right to work has been done, you can log onto my workplace to check your payslip.
We are currently working with the Clerkenwell campus to finalize the uniform details.
We expect the uniforms to be available in February .
Once available, we will be implementing a lending model , where uniforms will be distributed and returned after use.
More information will be provided at that time.
You can watch the presentations given and slides during Assessment and Training Day in November 2024 following the links below.
Please note that these links are accessible only when using a university email address.
For confidentiality reasons, these training resources is intended for internal training purposes only and should not be shared externally.
You can watch the presentations given during Assessment and Training Day in March 2023 on Panopto following the links below.
Student Ambassadors have a variety of different experiences, backgrounds and expertise.
But here are some basic standards which we expect from all our Student Ambassadors.
If you have any questions or queries regarding the Student Ambassador scheme, please email ambassadors@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/contact-us.aspx:
Welcome to the St George's Careers Service.
Our friendly and experienced Careers Consultants are here to help current students and alumni with careers advice, support and guidance.
Career Consultants Fiona Telford and Jane McKenna look forward to supporting you.
Explore the various ways to access our services by watching this short video:
Relevant, timetabled workshops as part of your course.
One-to-one guidance discussions to help you with career decision making and queries.
Guidance on preparing CVs, covering letters and job applications.
Practice interviews and tips on how to handle assessment centres.
Support to help you identify your transferable skills.
Access to a range of resources including careers information and jobs board.
We encourage our students to start thinking about their career options early on and to develop their employability skills during their time at St George’s, both independently and through curriculum-based activities.
The Careers Consultant team offer one to one appointments on Teams and in-person (subject to availability of careers consultants.) On days when a careers consultant is on campus, they work from the Careers Room in the library of the Tooting campus.
When consultants are not on campus, appointments may still be available on Teams via our booking system.
The service operates Monday-Friday during normal office hours.
Current students and alumni can book appointments and these are available face-to-face or via Teams.
Appointments are generally 30 minutes long, although longer sessions are available upon request.
To discuss any aspect of your career plans with one of our careers consultants, current students can book an appointment via Canvas or email us .
The service is a member of The Careers Group, University of London and students of St George's, University of London can also access central events organised by The Careers Group.
We offer bespoke, confidential and impartial one-to-one careers guidance to undergraduate and postgraduate students from the start of your course through to graduation and beyond, and at whatever your stage of professional development.
The careers service works closely with Master’s and PhD students, to support early career researchers at St George's.
What we offer
Career guidance.
We offer 30 minute one-to-one careers guidance sessions to support you in your career planning and decision making, to build your confidence, and to help you identify valuable next steps on your career journey.
CV and application advice .
We can review your applications with you, support you in presenting yourself and your experiences to best advantage, tailor your applications to a particular role, and help maximize the impact of your application.
Practice interviews.
Motivation questions, competency questions, role-specific questions, Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI) – we can focus wherever you feel is most valuable and work on the content, structure and delivery of your answers.
Interactive workshops .
Career education workshops are tailored and delivered within programmes.
Topics may include understanding the graduate job market, learning through reflection career decision making, making successful applications, making an impact at interview, and more.
Careers fairs .
Delivered in partnership with the academic programmes, these are opportunities to explore career paths in different areas and specialties, meet with employers, and have valuable conversations to inform your career thinking.
Online support.
Tools, information and links are available for current students on Canvas to help explore options, plan your next steps, and apply for opportunities.
We offer specific information tailored to each programme, plus general careers support and resources relevant to whatever your career choices and direction.
St George’s Careers Service offers a wide range of support to international students, whether you intend to find employment or further study in the UK, return home after your studies, or go to another country altogether.
If you are a current international student, you can find more help and advice on visas and job hunting both in the UK and globally on Canvas and our website .
The careers service is not authorised to give any advice on work permits or visas.
You can contact the St George's Senior Compliance Manager (Visas and Immigration) who will be able to provide advice about visa options after you graduate.
Resources
UK Visas and Immigration – GOV.UK
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA)
St George’s Careers Service works with all students and recent graduates to help move you toward your career aspirations.
We support students with disabilities, providing tailored information and advice.
Current students can access a range of information and resources on disability and employment, disclosure, and legal rights online on Canvas .
Equality and diversity issues and your graduate job hunt (TargetJobs)
All St George’s alumni have lifelong access to the careers service after completing their course.
Please see our alumni pages , and email us for more information.
We are always keen to hear from St George’s graduates who would like to take part in careers events, or to talk to current students informally about your job role, your organisation and the work sector since graduating.
We would love to publish alumni career stories as case studies to help current students who are considering what to do next.
Please get in touch .
We are always keen to hear from organisations that would like to participate in our careers events, either by giving a short presentation to our students or by having a presence at one of our larger events.
For more information or to register your interest, please contact us .
If you would like to advertise a job to all University of London students, please go to our jobs site, JobOnline , and advertise for free to reach hundreds of students across the university.
You can also email us about vacancies .
We provide support for current St George’s students and recent graduates but we are unable to provide pre-entry careers guidance for those considering applying to St George’s.
We hope you do make a successful application to St George’s and, once enrolled on your course, you'll have full access to our wide range of services.
In the meantime, you may find your school, college or other current educational institution has support available on university options.
If not, the resources/contacts listed below should help.
This guide to applying for university from Prospects is a great starting point.
If you already have a career path in mind, you can refer to the relevant Prospects job profile or sector overview .
UCAS also provide useful tips for those considering studying at undergraduate level and the different industries that graduates go on to work in.
Unistats provides information about full- and part-time undergraduate courses, and is aimed at prospective students.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/careers-advice-alumni/home.aspx:
Our courses can lead students to a diverse range of career options, from healthcare paralegal to venture capital investor.
In this section, you can find a selection of career profiles, stories and other resources from our alumni to help guide you as you begin planning your career in healthcare.
Class of 1974 Medicine alumnus and Emeritus Professor, George Griffin, reflects on his career path.
Masood spoke to us about what to expect as an F3 doctor, why he would recommend an F3 placement and how the experience has helped him develop key skills for his future career.
"It’s really positive that there are now more opportunities in this area that allow you to work more closely with patients"
Physiotherapy alumna awarded a British Empire Medal (BEM) for services to the NHS
"My degree provided me with the practical skills to assess patients and formulate management plans that help to improve the quality of life for many patients."
Alumna Ann Cox's Reflections on training at the Hyde Park Campus and a career in Canada 20
Wajid Akhter, Charity Week Founder
"There is huge opportunity for healthcare graduates all around the world, especially for somebody who has graduated in the UK.
Ayoma Ratnappuli, Medicine alumna and Registrar in HIV and Genitourinary Medicine
Dr Khalid Khan shares the inspiration behind his book, 'Mnemonics and Study Tips for Medical Students.'
Alumni Dr Talha Sami and Dr Rakin Anwar on writing 'Essential Guide to the RCA for the MRCGP'
Ricky Lawless, from our Diagnostic Radiography department, on the transition from student to lecturer
Read about their experiences below and see where our courses could take you.
Our Biomedical Science course prepares you for a wide variety of career pathways including research and cover fundamental aspects of cell and molecular biology, anatomy, physiology, pharmacology and genetics.
Read about where this course took these St George’s students, from healthcare paralegal to PhD candidate.
Hospital Interpreter (and Masters in Translation student) living in Tenerife
Pharmacovigilance Auditor/Quality Assurance Manager
Research Assistant at the Institute for Vector-borne Disease, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
View all Biomedical Science profiles
Our Diagnostic Radiography course will equip you with the skills and knowledge to use X-Ray, Ultrasound, CT and MRI, to produce high-quality clinical images of the internal structure and workings of the body.
See where this course can take you.
Deputy Superintendent Radiographer for Breast Imaging at St George's Hospital.
Senior Radiographer at the Royal London Hospital.
Class of 2006 Diagnostic Radiography alumnus, Rupert Penwarden, has been named Allied Health Professional of the Year by the Chelsea & Westminster Hospital NHS foundation Trust.
Healthcare science is one of the fastest-moving areas of the NHS and its importance is continuing to grow.
Healthcare science departments make a real difference to patients every day, and are involved in 80% of all clinical decisions in the NHS.
Learn about where our Healthcare Science BSc took these St George's students.
Cardiac Physiologist at Barts Health NHS Trust.
Senior Cardiac Physiologist in the NHS.
Senior Cardiac Physiologist
View all Healthcare Science profiles
Our Medicine course equips you with essential knowledge, understanding, skills and attitudes required to practice medicine competently and professionally in a patient-centred, multidisciplinary environment.
The expertise this course provides has allowed these St George's students to pursue broad and varied careers.
London Neurosurgical trainee
F2 working in ICU at a busy hospital in Birmingham.
GP
Head of Medical products and board member at Alamna (NGO), and GP Trainee
Commissioned Medical Officer (British Army) and Military Surgical Trainee
Recently retired Professor of Medicine and Stroke Neurologist
View all Medicine profiles
Paramedic Science BSc will enable you to train as a paramedic, providing immediate assistance to patients in the emergency out of hospital environment and to assess, treat and refer patients requiring urgent care.
See where this course took these St George's alumni.
Paramedic and Mentor with the London Ambulance Service.
Paramedic at London Ambulance Service.
Physiotherapy BSc will equip you with the knowledge, understanding and assessment and treatment skills needed to work as an effective and autonomous physiotherapist.
Senior paediatric physiotherapist working in an NHS foundation trust.
Team Lead (Band 7) Physiotherapist.
Clinical Lead Physiotherapist Medical Rehabilitation and Frailty at Chelsea and Westminster NHS Trust
A Radiotherapy and Oncology BSc equips you with the skills, knowledge, and technical expertise needed to plan and deliver radiotherapy whilst caring for people with cancer.
Read about these St George's students' experiences to learn where a career in radiography can take you.
Senior (Band 6) proton treatment Radiographer at The Christie NHS Foundation Trust.
Radiation Therapist in Saudi Arabia.
Senior Therapeutic Radiographer and Chartered Management Institute Board Member.
Congratulations to all of you who have recently completed your course and become alumni of St George's.
Alumni have reached out to share well-wishes and advice as you begin your next chapter.
You can read some of these messages below.
“Top effort everyone – you are all legends and should be immensely proud to be graduating after all your hard work.
We are gutted you won’t be able to graduate in the usual fashion – although, donning your gowns and silly hats, and celebrating with friends and family will feel even more special when it does happen.
We have no doubt you will all go and make a significant difference to your local communities, using the scientific knowledge and practical skills you have been honing during your time at SGUL.
Be kind, think big and have fun”.
Matt Owen, Physiotherapy Class of 2012 and Clara Vella, MBBS Class of 2013
“Many congratulations to you all for achieving this pinnacle.
I appreciate it must be difficult not being able to celebrate directly with friends via the Summer Ball and Graduation Ceremony but this will make you better doctors in these uncertain times.
You will develop better in terms of empathy, compassion and insight to the various psycho-socioeconomic issues in patients as well as dealing with the medical issues so you will mature fast in these uncertain times to be our future leaders and indeed, treat me for my ailments when needed!”
Dushyant Mital, MBBS Class of 1993
“I would like to offer my heartiest congratulations to all St George’s University graduates of 2020!
Graduation celebrations might be a little different this year due to the on-going Covid-19 pandemic, but do not forget that each and every one of you can make a difference in the healthcare field.
I wish you all the best of luck in your future endeavours!”
Nipuni Welihinda, Biomedical Science Class of 2012
We are always looking for alumni willing to share their experience with current students and new graduates taking their first steps.
It is really helpful for students hear from alumni in their subject areas about the what they have gone on to do since graduating.
Stories and Career profiles provide valuable insight into different career paths, what job roles involve and how our alumni got where they are today, in order to give our future alumni the best possible start in the world of work.
If you would like to share a career profile, we would love to hear from you.
We are looking for careers advice across all subjects to highlight the diverse range of careers available to students of all courses at the university.
Please email us if you are interested in sharing careers advice.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/careers/georges-skills-and-recognition-award/home.aspx:
The City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) Skills and Recognition Award is an initiative where students can showcase the skills they’ve developed in academic and extracurricular activities by building an online portfolio on Canvas.
Staff can support their students by increasing awareness about the Award among students and colleagues, and encouraging students to actively reflect on their skills development by highlighting how specific academic training and non-academic activities can be included in one’s portfolio.
Do you want to stand out from the crowd?
Show your additional skills beyond your degree?
Demonstrate that you are career ready?
Whatever you do after you finish your degree, our goal is to help you build long-term transferable skills that will benefit you throughout your whole career.
Take part in the School of Health & Medical Sciences’ Skills and Recognition Award and prepare a record of reflections to support your continuing professional development before you graduate.
During your time at City St George’s, you will not only develop your skills in your course-related activities but you will also be taking part in lots of extra-curricular activities.
These might be on campus, in your own community or perhaps you have a part-time job.
The School of Health & Medical Sciences' Skills and Recognition Award offers you the opportunity to make the most of your experience by reflecting on and demonstrating 11 essential transferrable skills (listed below).
There are two types of Award – the School of Health & Medical Sciences' Skills and Recognition Award, when you focus on 7 skills, and the School's Skills and Recognition Master Award, when you focus on all 11 skills.
Make the most of experience you’ve already gained by reflecting and illustrating what you’ve learnt.
Think critically about your skills and how you can demonstrate them with evidence.
Identify any skill gaps for your chosen career path and plan how to fill them
Create an online portfolio of your work and achievements that you can easily share to enhance your career prospects.
Get one to one support from City St George's Careers Consultants with your skill reflection and career management
Enrol on the Canvas City St George’s, School of Health & Medical Sciences Skills and Recognition Award module
Use STAR (Situation, Task, Action, Result/Reflection) forms to reflect on and illustrate 7 or 11 of the Award skills
Upload materials to evidence your skills, such as photos, videos, blog posts etc, where available
Meet with a Careers Consultants during your process of reflecting on your skills.
Write a summary reflection about your overall experience and skills gained to be reviewed by the Award panel.
The 11 skills are: Communication, Digital literacy, Innovation and creativity, Interpersonal, Leadership and management, Analysis, Planning & Organisation, Problem solving, Research & Investigation, Teamwork.
You can contact the Careers Consultants by booking an appointment via Canvas or via email .
Your STAR forms, evidence, and summary reflection will be reviewed by the Award panel and you may receive feedback if specific points need to be addressed.
Your Award will be acknowledged through a certificate offered to you at Graduation each year.
To be awarded at the end of the current academic year, you need to complete your skills for the type the Award you wish to obtain by 31 May.
Enrol here
If you have any questions or unsure about anything, please don’t hesitate to contact the team on award@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/students-union/home.aspx:
St George's Students' Union is a democratically run organisation with the student voice at the heart of every decision and independent to the university, here to represent you.
Following the University merger, it is now merged with City, University of London Students' Union to form City St George's Students' Union .
Visit the Union page for more information.
As well as being home to the SU Bar and Shop, music room, dance studios and meeting rooms and with a wide range of events, the SU provides welfare support for all students, and our welfare support team have an open-door policy for any students that need help or advice.
Find out about how the welfare team can help you by visiting thr Support section.
We're here to ensure that you make the most of your time as a student at the University and encourage you to take part in the wide range of sports, social and cultural activities and events that we organise.
We have over 100 clubs and societies  so you can be sure to find something that will interest you.
Visit the Clubs and Societies page for a full listing of the sports clubs, societies and community projects that you can join.
Pop in to the Students' Union office in Tooting on the Floor 2, Hunter Wing and our friendly office staff and executive team will be able to help with any queries that you may have.
St George's Students' Union commercial services comprise the SU Shop, the SU Dragon Bar and we also cater for external hire of our venue spaces
St George's and the Students' Union have signed a MoU to clarify the roles and responsibilities of each organisations and to facilitate a strong, mutually beneficial working relationship.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/students-union/commercial-services/the-dragon-bar.aspx:
The Dragon Bar is the main social space for students at City St George’s, University of London, and is widely used by students’ union clubs and societies to hold a range of events throughout the year.
The Dragon Bar is also open to university staff and staff from St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
The bar benefited from an extensive refurbishment in 2017 and has been transformed into a relaxing and vibrant venue with a unique George’s vibe.
All profits generated from the bar goes back to the students' union (SU) to support the charitable activities the SU provides for students.
So by using the SU bar, you are directly helping to support the students’ union and enhance the student experience for those studying at City St George’s.
The Dragon Bar is located on the second floor of Hunter Wing and regularly hosts DJ nights, quizzes and other events organized by the students’ union events team.
The bar can also be booked by Students’ union clubs and societies and university and trust staff for events.
The flexible layout of the bar enables areas of the bar to be reconfigured to suit any event, large or small.
The bar area is open all day Monday to Friday for student and staff use, serving soft drinks between 12pm and 1:30pm.
The Dragon Bar opens at 5pm Monday to Thursday and 4pm on Fridays, and closes at 11pm.
On events nights the bar can remain open until 2am.
The Dragon Bar stocks a wide range of beers, wines and spirits as well as regularly changing local craft beers and ciders and our very own George’s Ale.
The Dragon Bar is professionally managed by Richard Ison (Bar Manager) and Kenton Jackson (Assistant Bar Manager) who between them have over 30 years of service within the SU!
Richard and Kenton are assisted by a team of part-time student staff.
City St George’s Students' Union has its own loyalty card, the Dragon Card, which can be used in the SU shop and the SU bar to acquire points on all purchases.
Your points can be redeemed against purchases in both outlets.
Come and visit the Dragon Bar and support us, as all profit made goes back into funding the students’ union, and if you’d like to reserve a space please complete this booking form (Word) and send it to Senior Bar Manager Richard Ison or Student Union Office Manager Michelle Campbell .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/students-union/commercial-services/the-su-shop.aspx:
The students’ union (SU) shop , recentlyrefurbished during the summer of 2018, is a modern and welcoming retail outlet.
The SU shop benefits from being part of a nationwide purchasing consortium, run by the NUS, so all our products are competitively priced and provide excellent value for our customers.
The SU shop is located on the ground floor of Hunter Wing and sells an extensive range of food and drink, stationery, newspapers, greetings cards and other grocery essentials.
There is also a wide variety of international foods and ingredients, not found anywhere else on site.
We are currently the only place in Tooting that sells Krispy Kreme doughnuts, and we offer meal deals on selected sandwiches and wraps.
In addition, you can also top up your Oyster card and buy first- and second-class stamps in store.
Every penny that you spend in the SU shop helps to support the students’ union, as the profits generated each year go back into the SU charity to help fund the welfare services and activities the SU offers to students.
The SU shop has a dedicated clothing and merchandise area selling university branded merchandise and items from the students’ union’s newly designed clothing range.
The full range of clothing can be viewed at the students’ union (SU) shop and click and collect orders can be delivered directly to the SU shop free of charge.
The SU shop is open Monday to Friday from 8.00am to 4pm and is managed by Bobby Davies, supported by David Francisco (Assistant Manager) and Jordan Shamsoo (Shop Supervisor).
A team of part-time student staff support the substantive team.
St George’s Students Union has its own loyalty card, the Dragon Card, which can be used across the SU shop and the SU bar to acquire points on all purchases.
Come and visit the SU shop for all your everyday purchases, supporting the students’ union as you do it.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/on-campus/facilities-for-students-on-campus/home.aspx:
St George's, University of London is based in Tooting, the heart of South West London, sharing our campus with St George's Hospital - the home of Channel 4's 24 Hours in A&E.
As well as being fully equipped with the most up-to-date educational facilities, we also have a dedicated Students' Union including a recently renovated bar and social spaces.
Find out about our campus facilities by browsing the pages below.
At St George's, University of London there are 38 venues available to help support your learning, 6 computer rooms, as well as a variety of study spaces in the Library.
There are several toilets, washing and shower facilities on campus, as well as this we also have baby changing facilities.
We also have prayer facilities and a welfare room.
The Dragon Bar is the main social space for students at St George’s and holds a range of events throughout the year.
Historically known as the Medical School Club, St George’s Students’ Union (SU) has been a core part of George’s life for longer than any of us can remember.
The Students' Union is also home to a variety of spaces, including;  a music room, games room and welfare room.
These can be hired for a variety of club and society activities and also be used recreationally by our students.
Tooting town centre is also a short walk away and is home to many shops, restaurants and the legendary Tooting and Broadway Market.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/cost-of-living-hub/financial-support.aspx:
Information and financial support options, including our Access to Learning Fund.
The Access to Learning Fund is our hardship fund for home (UK) students.
It is now open for 2024/25 applications.
A range of funding and financial information to support the international students that make up our global community.
Living as a student in London isn’t cheap.
These tips will help you to plan your finances and budget carefully in order to avoid building up unnecessary debt.
Information from GOV.UK on council tax discounts for full time students .
Households where everyone’s a full-time student do not have to pay Council Tax.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/cost-of-living-hub/eating.aspx:
See details of places where you can eat on our campus .
As well as this there are several other local and online vendors, including:
You can pick up fresh fruit, vegetables, fish and meat at Tooting Market, which is open 7 days a week.
Vendors include:

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/cost-of-living-hub/keeping-warm.aspx:
You can use our warm spaces on campus if it’s cold at home.
There is a seating area in the Pret kiosk (Hunter Wing, Level 2), you do not have to have bought something from Pret to use this space, and the Students' Union bar (Hunter Wing, Level 2 open until 11pm) are all available.
The Library is also open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
There are plenty of venues on site which are available for you to use.
See details of these spaces and how you can access them.
There are several toilets, washing and shower facilities on campus which our students are welcome to use.
Make sure are you receiving the Energy Bills Support Scheme discount .
Energy suppliers often provide hardship funds.
There’s a handy summary on the Money Saving Expert website .
See tips on how to keep warm in a student house .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/cost-of-living-hub/transport.aspx:
You can also visit the Student Life Centre to discuss your options and find support.
Transport for London provide an 18+ Student Oyster photocard which offers discounted travel.
The 16 to 25 Railcard from The Train Line gives you a third off train tickets.
Low cost coach deals can be found on National Express and MegaBus .
Use sites like Skyscanner , Jack's Flight Club or Kayak to compate the cost of flights before booking.
These are especially good if you can be flexible with your dates.
The Try Before You Bike scheme from Wandsworth Borough Council allows you to rent new or nearly-new bikes.
If you like to bike you can buy it at a discounted price through a flexible payment plan.
If you don't like it, it will be collected for free.
Luckytrip offers low budget holiday options if you are able to be flexible with your dates.
Sustainable, flight-free travel can be arranged via WhatsApp with Byway .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/cost-of-living-hub/other-ways-to-save-money.aspx:
Apply now to loan a laptop or tablet from the university.
Our Student Finance team have compiled their 10 top tips on how to improve your money habits.
01 February 2019
You can also collect your copy of the Student Money Matters magazine from the Student Life Centre .
Find advice from the MoneySavingExpert .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/students-union/memorandum-of-understanding.aspx:
St George’s and the Students' Union (SU) recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), marking an important milestone in the relationship between the two organisations.
One key purpose of the MoU was to clarify roles and responsibilities of the SU and the University, and the services provided by each organisation, to facilitate a strong, mutually beneficial working relationship.
Under section 22(2) of the Education Act, the University has a number of duties to observe in relation to the Students’ Union (SU).
These include legal requirements related to SU elections, complaints procedures and resourcing for clubs and groups.
The Committee of University Chairs and NUS UK set out the below, values that Universities and students’ unions are expected to uphold as part of their partnership:
The document sets out top-level principles for the SU and St George’s across the below areas, as well as identifying opportunities for the two organisations to work together to address student interests and priorities.
Find out more about these below.
The SU will:
The University will:
Both organisations will:
St George’s will:
comply with all health and safety and security requirements when using the University Estate and Facilities.
seek that, where appropriate, the Union will be treated equitably with University departments and teams for the allocation of facilities and services and access to the Estate.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/students-union/commercial-services/home.aspx:
City St George’s Students’ Union (SU) commercial services in Tooting comprise the SU shop and the Dragon Bar, which can be hired for external events.
In addition, we have an online store selling university and SU branded clothing and merchandise.
The SU bar is located on the second floor of Hunter Wing.
It’s open for the sale of soft drinks Monday to Friday, 12pm to 1.30pm, and licensed sales from 5pm Monday to Thursday and from 4pm on Fridays.
The bar closes at 11pm, however does a late license and stays open until 2am on event nights.
The SU shop is located on the ground floor of Hunter Wing and is open Monday to Friday, 7.30am to 6pm.
The University students and staff and St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust staff can reserve spaces in the bar for events Monday to Friday, and the Dragon Bar can also be hired for exclusive use on weekends.
The SU Dragon Bar is the main social space for students at St George's, and is widely used by SU clubs and societies to hold a range of events throughout the year.
Every penny that you spend in the SU shop helps to support the students' union, as the profits generated each year go back into the SU charity.
Areas of the Dragon Bar can be hired during the week by students' union clubs and societies as well as university and St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust staff.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/alumni-benefits:
City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) graduates are entitled to a range of exclusive services, benefits and discounts from the university and our partners.
As a graduate of the university your exclusive, lifelong membership with the Alumni Association is free and automatic.
Your membership entitles you to benefits both on-campus and off-campus.
If you need a copy of your academic transcript or a replacement certificate, you can request these from the registry.
For more information on any of our alumni benefits and services, please email us.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/careers-support-for-alumni:
Graduates from St George’s now have lifelong access to support from the careers service after graduation.
Our Careers Team can support all areas of your career planning and career management, from planning your next steps to building and using your network, making applications and impressing at interview.
The team are able to support you both in-person and online.
The careers team offers 30-minute career guidance appointments, on Teams and will cover any questions you have about your career.
As well as online careers appointments, there is also a range of online resources available to you, such as careers guides and online interview preparation, which the careers team can share with you on request.
For more information on how to book an appointment, please email us at careers@sgul.ac.uk
We have several free careers resources for recent St George’s graduates.
These are divided into three sections – Explore, Plan and Apply – so that you can easily access resources which are relevant to the stage you are at in your career journey.
Access these resources here .
Look out for further information in our alumni newsletters and social media pages on other free online careers resources and events available to new and recent graduates.
We will be in touch through our newsletters and other alumni communications to to update you about upcoming careers events that might be of interest to you – such as our careers week, course-specific career fairs and career panels - either as attendees or as volunteer speakers.
More careers resources can be found at on the student career pages.
Read about our alumni’s career journeys and find out where your degree could take you next.
During our annual Careers Week, alumni from a range of disciplines and courses share their own careers and wellbeing insight.
Email us to catch up on our latest Careers Week and view our alumni Q&As from our 2021 Careers Week on these pages.
Find out more about this year's Careers Week
“As an Alumnus from 1992 I want to wish you every success and happiness in your future careers.
If you can be anything in this world, be kind not just to others but especially to yourself.
Medicine is still the richest and most varied career and I am proud to have started mine at the very merry St George’s, George’s is the finest in the land!”
Justin Peter, Medicine alumnus
“Congratulations and best wishes to you all and good luck in your chosen fields.
St George’s has done you proud and I am sure you will all return the favour as you go forward.
Well done and we’ll remember you as we remember our own time all those years ago!”
Anne Sinnott, Nursing alumna
"Congratulations to all new graduates!
You have done so well to come through and achieve success in these oh so difficult times - academically and socially.
It is an indicator of your resilience and I hope all your dreams are happy ones!"
Fiona Macleod, Medicine alumna
"Even though my graduation was in 1988 before most of you were born, I remember it so well.
How the time has flown by.
Enjoy your careers, always seek guidance when needed, learn from the good and bad and lead the way for those that will follow you.
There will be days that are hard beyond belief but they will be dwarfed by those that bring rewards and joy.
All the very best for the future."
Andy Morris, Medicine alumnus

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/graduate-outcomes:
Graduate Outcomes is a national survey of all graduates, which takes place 15 months after you complete your course.
It gathers information and views about your journey after you left university.
It also helps inform prospective students about career prospects before they commit to a course, as well as helping universities improve how they prepare students for their future careers.
15 months after you graduate, you will be asked to complete the survey either by email or phone .
You’ll be asked whether you’re in employment, further study, exploring the world or doing something else.
You’ll also be asked how you feel about your career and whether you are utilising what you learnt during your degree.
Watch this short video to find out more about the survey .
Find out how completing the survey can benefit you .
Your response will help us to:
Make sure you are able to contribute by:
Keep your details up-to-date to make sure you receive the Graduate Outcomes survey
Graduate Outcomes is a government-run survey that has replaced the previous Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education survey (DLHE).
We are legally required to submit our alumni data to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
HESA supports the advancement of higher education by collecting and publishing reliable data about the sector.
Find out more about Graduate Outcomes on the HESA website .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/volunteering:
Volunteering is a great way to stay connected with St George's while giving something of real value back to support the students following in your footsteps.
We interview hundreds of prospective students every year through our Multiple Mini Interview process.
We rely on our generous volunteers to help make this happen.
For many of our students, the question "What comes next?" is always lurking in the back of their minds.
Can you help provide an answer?
No one knows what it's like to study at St George's better than our alumni.
You have vital, first-hand experience of St George's as an institution, a community and place to live.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/keep-in-touch:
We're proud of the education we provide at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) and prouder still of what you achieve when you leave us.
The role of the Alumni Association is here to help you keep in touch with us and with each other, so that you can continue to share news of your progress and achievements after you’ve left us.
To update your contact details, please fill out our short online form .
If you would like to reconnect with an old friend who you have lost contact with, we might be able to help.
We have alumni registered from as far back as the 1940s, and are happy to help you get in touch.
Please email alumni@sgul.ac.uk and the Development and Alumni team at the Tooting campus will try to facilitate.
If you'd like to attend or organise a reunion, or register your interest in volunteering with City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting), please email us .
The Dragon is a monthly newsletter that is sent to alumni of City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
The newsletter features announcements, news, events, alumni updates and opportunities from around the institution.
We also send out a events specific newsletter, which features details of our events, reunions and volunteering opportunities.
You can sign up to recieve these emails here.
Graduate Outcomes is a national survey of all graduates, which takes place 15 months after you complete your course.
Find out more about the survery, including the questions you'll be asked and how you'll be contacted, here .
If you would like to get in contact with the alumni office, you can reach us by phone (+44 (0) 208 266 6195) or email .
Please note that in light of current restrictions, our phone lines are supervised from 10am-12pm and 2-4pm.
If calling outside of these calling hours, please leave a message or email us .
Address:
Development and Alumni Relations Office City St George’s, University of London (Tooting campus) Cranmer Terrace London SW17 0RE
Office opening hours: 09.30 to 17.00, Monday to Friday.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/about-us:
The Development and Alumni Relations team is proud to serve alumni, donors, and partners of the City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) community.
Supporting the School's strategic goals and initiatives, the team works hard to build meaningful relationships to help connect alumni and donors to their areas of passion to raise financial support and secure resources needed for growth and innovation.
The generosity of the City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) community creates opportunities, access, and vision-affirmation for students and faculty, ensuring our long-term mission of improving health for everyone through inspiring education and research.
Rachel Wheeley is the Director of Communications and Engagement at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
With experience in BBC radio news and the Physiological Society, Rachel joined City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) in July 2021.
Leading the Communications and Engagement Team, which includes the Development and Alumni department, she takes great pride in her role.
Rachel lived in Tooting from 2006 to 2016.
Her three children were born at St George's Hospital between 2010 and 2014.
As a former Tooting resident, she has a strong affinity for our University and the local area.
Rachel's goal is to create a vibrant and inclusive alumni community at the University.
She is passionate about engaging and empowering alumni to support projects that enhance City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) as an exceptional place for healthcare students to work and study.
Under Rachel's leadership, City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) is forging strong connections and paving the way for an exciting future for its alumni community.
Mandy Sheriff is the Associate Director, Development and Alumni at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) leading our fundraising and alumni community engagement strategy.
Mandy joined us in late 2023 and brings nearly 20 years experience in building supporter and alumni engagement programmes in the cultural and educational sectors in the US and the UK.
She comes to us most recently from the Saïd Business School, University of Oxford.
Passionate about building connections and communities of support, Mandy looks forward to getting to know our alumni and supporters and growing the power and impact of our community within the University and across the sector.
Having lived in Wandsworth for the past five years, Mandy has a strong affinity for the hospital, the University, and the local community in which she lives and works.
Chris Huggins is the Development Operations and Database Manager.
Chris started his City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) journey in 2007, he went on to complete a BSc (Hons), MRes and PhD in Biomedical Science at City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
Upon the completion of his PhD, Chris transitioned into database management, data analysis and development.
As a City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) alumn himself, Chris often enjoys sharing stories with other alumni, hearing about their careers and interests.
He is constantly overwhelmed by the generosity of the alumni community, who support the current students in a plethora of ways.
Ciaran McKenna joined City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) in the Summer of 2016 having previously worked for, and studied at Newcastle University.
Initially joining in a Marketing and Recruitment capacity, Ciaran moved into the Communications team as Press and Student Communications Officer before becoming the university's Alumni Engagement Manager in August 2023.
Ciaran is responsible for keeping alumni connected with the university whether it be through events, in person or remote, facilitating volunteering opportunities such as being a part of Careers panels or via regular communications sent to alumni from City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting).
If an alumnus gets in touch with you asking for advice or further information about what City St George's, School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting) can do for them, please do feel free to contact Ciaran.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/alumni-events/upcoming-events:
Date: Monday 12 June 2023 Time: 5.30pm-6.30pm Location: The Curve Lecture Theatre (followed by a reception in the Collaborative Space) Register here
Please join us for our first Annual Equality, Diversity and Inclusion talk and Q&A.
This event brings external speakers with unique expertise and diverse experiences from different sectors, to inspire and expand our community knowledge and awareness of contemporary EDI issues.
Our speaker, I.
Stephanie Boyce, is the Immediate Past President of the Law Society of England and Wales.
In March 2021 she became the 177th President, making history as the sixth female and the first black, first person of colour to become president.
As President, Stephanie prioritised the issue of diversity, inclusion and social mobility, and spent her time challenging harmful and reductive attitudes.
She will explore why diversity matters and why each of us have a responsibility to build truly diverse and inclusive professions.
Attendees will gain valuable insights relevant to our community from Stephanie’s journey to becoming President after four attempts.
Leading with intention and purpose, her perseverance, determination, resilience and strength are an inspiring invitation.
Biography
I.
Stephanie Boyce is the Immediate Past President of the Law Society of England and Wales.
In March 2021 she became the 177th, the sixth female and the first black, first person of colour to become President.
Stephanie has chaired, or been a member of, several high-profile organisations, made appearances before Parliamentary committees (Justice Select) and engaged with Ministers in all parts of the United Kingdom and abroad.
She holds a Master of Laws in public law and global governance from King’s College London.
A Fellow of the Chartered Governance Institute, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and a Fellow of the Society of Leadership Fellows, an Honorary professor of King’s College, Dickson Poon School of Law and hold two Honorary Doctorates from Keele University and the University of East London.
In addition, Stephanie was a member of the government commissioned socio-economic Taskforce and a Commissioner with the National Preparedness
Commission and the Shinkwin Commission.
She also sits on the Thomson Reuters Women in Law Advisory Board.
As President, Stephanie led the Society through challenging times from the tail end of Brexit, a pandemic, the war in Ukraine, Afghanistan, the death of Her Majesty the Queen and the biggest shake-up to the way solicitors train and qualify in 30 years, to name a few.
Her strong leadership has been crucial to the Society’s stability and successes, securing a number of concessions from government and other stakeholders on judicial review, the Bill of Rights Bill and the solicitors indemnity fund.
With over 20 years’ experience of practice as a solicitor working with a number of organisations in helping to set tangible goals, formulate strategic plans, and develop strategic objectives at home and abroad, Stephanie’s past roles and experience brings a distinct perspective and insight to the development and delivery of her work.
Stephanie recently received a Lifetime Achievement Award from Women & Diversity in Law for her work on EDI and her contribution to the profession.
MBBS Alumni are warmly invited to attend the MBBS Careers Fair at St George’s, University of London and share their career paths with current students.
This is an annual event that is highly valued by our MBBS students and is usually very well-attended.
In 2023, the event will be returning to an in-person format for the first time in four years and we are excited to make this a face to face experience for our students again.
The Careers Fair is open to all medical students, but is particularly focused on students in their clinical years.
The students benefit tremendously from the opportunity to chat to trainees and consultants in a broad a range of specialities.
We are hoping to have representation from as many medical specialties as possible.
We would be very grateful for the participation of MBBS alumni to speak informally to students about the specialty which they work in, as the insight you are able to offer will be of huge value to those considering their next steps.
The Fair will run for two hours from 12:30- 2:30pm.
Refreshments will be provided for exhibitors and alumni.
If you would be interested in speaking to students at the event, please complete this form by Friday 2 June, 2023.
The MBBS programme team will send out further information to all attendees nearer the time, but if you have any questions or queries at this stage, please feel free to contact Corinne Cohen, MBBS Education Support Manager, at ccohen@sgul.ac.uk.
Alumni receive regular event updates through our monthly e-newsletter, The Dragon, and our monthly events bulletin.
Please email alumni@sgul.ac.uk for more information on any of the events featured.
If you are interested in holding your own reunion or event and would like some help promoting it to your classmates, please email alumni@sgul.ac.uk .
If you would like to arrange a get-together for you and your university friends, we can help.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/our-alumni:
St George’s Physiotherapy alumna, Preet Chandi, is a British Army Physiotherapist who made history in January 2022 by being the first woman of colour to trek across Antarctica.
Alumna, writer and Junior Doctor Roopa Farooki's books have been published  internationally and translated into several languages.
Professor Helen Stokes-Lampard is an academic and general practitioner and the Chair of the Royal College of General Practitioners.
Medicine alumnus and Medical Director at Frimley Health NHS Foundation Trust, Dr Timothy Ho, was awarded an MBE in the 2021 New Year Honours list for services to the NHS during the Covid-19 pandemic
Professor Frank Chinegwundoh is a St George's alumnus and consultant urological surgeon at Barts Health NHS Trust and Harley Street.
He was awarded an MBE for services to the NHS in the Queen's birthday honours list.
Class of 1974 Medicine graduate and Emeritus Professor, George Griffin, is one of Europe’s leading experts on infectious diseases and public health.
Nancy Rothwell is the first woman president and vice-chancellor of the University of Manchester, the UK's biggest campus university.
An expert on human health under extreme conditions, Professor Mike Stroud became widely known when he partnered the adventurer Ranulph Fiennes on several of his expeditions.
A Medicine alumnus, Physician and former Principal of St George’s, University of London, Professor Peter Kopelman was an outstanding supporter of our university who was active in health policy, medical education and research.
Julian Tudor Hart was an alumnus of St George's and a General Practitioner who went on to have a global impact on the profession through his published work.
Professor Harold Lambert was a clinical consultant and St George’s first professor of microbial disease.
A highly-regarded cardiologist recognised around the world for his pioneering work in cardiac auscultation and pacing, Aubrey Leatham established the cardiac unit at St George's Hospital.
Arthur Hamilton Crisp was an alumnus of St George's who became internationally respected through his clinical research in the field of anorexia nervosa.
Patrick Steptoe was an obstetrician and gynaecologist who pioneered fertility treatment, developing in vitro fertilisation (IVF) alongside biologist and physiologist Robert Edwards.
Dame Muriel Powell was a hospital matron, public servant and Chief Nursing Officer for the Scottish Home and Health Department.
A renowned physician and naturalist, Edward Wilson is best known as scientific lead on Robert Falcon Scott’s ill-fated expedition to the Antarctic.
Thomas Young was an English polymath who made notable scientific contributions to the fields of vision, light, solid mechanics, energy, physiology, language, musical harmony, and Egyptology.
Henry Vandyke Carer was an anatomist, surgeon, and anatomical artist most notably known for his illustrations of the book, Gray's Anatomy.
Henry Gray was an anatomist, surgeon and alumnus of St George's most notable for publishing his seminal work Gray's Anatomy.
Known as the father of immunology, Edward Jenner is famed for pioneering the smallpox vaccine which is estimated to have saved more lives than the work of any other person in history.
John Hunter was an anatomist and surgeon, often referred to as the founder of scientific surgery and the father of modern surgery.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/transcripts-and-replacement-certificates.aspx:
If you need a copy of your academic transcript (for a job application or a new course) or a replacement certificate, you can request these from the registry team.
For transcript queries related to BSc Biomedical Science and the MBBS programmes, please email studentsystems@sgul.ac.uk.
Alumni of the St George’s University of London MBBS programme delivered by UNIC can contact the University of Nicosia Registrar, Mr Hero Glykys-Philaniotis, at glykys.h@unic.ac.cy with any queries concerning references, degree certificates or transcripts.
Replacement certificates cost £40.
To purchase a replacement certificate, please visit our online shop .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/wellbeing-resources.aspx:
In this section, we share resources to help support your wellbeing, including stories and advice from fellow alumni on looking after your physical and emotional wellbeing as you take your first steps into the working world.
Below is a list of resources and organisations which may provide sources of mental health and well-being support or guidance.
Mental Wellbeing for Healthcare workers: Preparation for Practice Final Year Students (PDF)
Action for Happiness: Visit the link to view their calendar of things to do to stay positive.
You can also register to receive daily tips, advice and quotes to help you stay positive.
The Mental Health Foundation is another mental health charity and has some useful information:
Mind are a mental health charity and they have created a great resource for those self‐isolating who feel anxious about it.
Their main website has other useful links and information about how and where to access other support.
You can also access support from the NHS.
Visit their website to find out what support is available and how you can access it.
The NHS also provides a list of mental health support services for young people , within your local area (type in your postcode to generate a list of support available near you).
Read the NHS 5 steps to mental wellbeing.
And finally, the Samaritans has a helpline you can call at any time.
Tel: 116 123 (UK) or 116 123 (ROI), 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year.
Being resilient is a critical skill for a successful career and for life and is more important than ever in the current pandemic.
Read our guide to developing resilience .
Alumna on supporting wellbeing and staying active in the workplace
Preparing for Practice: A handbook for final year students (PDF), adapted for St George's from a publication produced by Queen's University Belfast

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/obituaries.aspx:
These obituary pages include alumni, supporters and former staff members who had strong connections to St George's, University of London (now City St George's, University of London).
They have been created with the help of alumni and friends of the University.
If you would like to submit an obituary for inclusion on this page, please email us .
Medicine Class of 1962 alumnus, Dr John Timothy Baker, died peacefully on 29 March 2024 at the Royal Liverpool University Hospital aged 85.
Having moved to London to begin his medical training in September 1957, Dr Baker, known as Tim by his friends, studied at St George’s original site in Hyde Park Corner before embarking on a career in the NHS which would last over 60 years.
Dr Baker worked as a consultant Physician at the Wrexham Maelor Hospital between 1975 until 2003 before working for hospitals all over the country including on the Isle of White and in Inverness.
Dr Baker also worked in Manchester, Chester and lately Liverpool all after he was supposed to retire passing on his knowledge and experience to younger co-workers.
A lover of sports, John had a particularly keen interest in cricket.
He is survived by his life partner Pat, brother Rod, daughter Sian, sister-in-law Linda, and his nieces and nephews.
Professor Thomas (Tom) B Bolton, Professor of Pharmacology, died on 27May 2024 after a short illness.
Tom joined St George's Hospital Medical School (as we were then) in 1976 as a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology.
Within four years he became a Professor and five years later he became Head of the Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology.
He remained the Head of Department until St George’s, University of London was reorganised.
Tom later spent four years as the Dean of Research and Development at St George’s.
He served on Wellcome Trust and British Heart Foundation grant panels and was chairman of a Higher Education Funding Council Basic Medical and Dental Science Research Assessment Exercise panel.
He was a member of the British Pharmacological Society, Physiological Society, Biophysics Society, Save British Science, Biochemical Society, University Federation Animal Welfare and Royal College Veterinary Surgeons.
In 1998 he was elected to Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences in recognition of his outstanding contributions to medical science.
Before St George’s
Tom was a Yorkshire man who obtained a First-Class Honours BSc in Physiology at the University of London in 1964 and a PhD in Pharmacology in 1967 – his examiner being the Nobel Laureate Sir John Vane.
He subsequently completed a Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and was admitted to the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons as a practising veterinary surgeon.
He remained active as a vet and covered the St George’s Biological Research Facility until its closure.
However, Tom dedicated most of his working life to teaching, research and university leadership.
He became interested in smooth muscle research through his time at the Department of Pharmacology Oxford University where he was a Royal Society Locke Research Fellow at Brasenose College.
Research interests
Tom built a world-leading smooth muscle research group, “The Smoothies”.
The group specialised in understanding ionic events and the associated ion channels of smooth muscle cells.
These cells quietly, subconsciously, but critically, determine movements of fluids and substances in tubes and containers throughout the body.
Tom’s group was in the vanguard of research that utilised new technologies – single cell patch clamp electrophysiology, laser confocal imaging - and he established many international collaborations as a consequence.
Many of the people who trained with Tom went on to senior positions across the globe fuelled by his relentless work ethic.
Investigators inspired by him were from countries including Australia, Bulgaria, China, France, Germany, Japan, Slovakia and Ukraine, whom he supported in many ways.
In the mid-1980s to late 1990s Tom’s group was one of the leading smooth muscle centres in the world and contributed to St George’s strong reputation for research deciphering physiological mechanisms.
Tom was particularly interested in ionic events evoked by acetylcholine acting on intestinal smooth muscle cells to regulate intestinal motility.
You can read more about Tom’s research and the impact of The Smoothies at the bottom of this obituary.
About Tom
In the twilight of his academic career Tom represented St George’s in the development of a Pharmacy degree with Kingston University that still runs.
In 2011, Kingston University awarded Tom an Honorary Doctorate in recognition of his outstanding contributions.
At the ceremony, he said:
"I would say there are no short-cuts.
Understand everything you do 100 per cent at each and every stage, be prepared to work long hours, be almost zealot-like in your approach, learn how to fight off bureaucrats - only then will you have the drive and knowledge to succeed."
Those who knew Tom will recognise his character from this statement and remember him fondly.
He was a yardstick of quality.
Tom was a ferocious competitor, be it on the squash court, in a 5-a-side pitch or lifting weights in the gym.
He loved driving high-end cars, which he serviced himself, and was a big fan of curries.
A DIY enthusiast, Tom repaired, improved and extended his house in South Nutfield.
He also had an old tractor that he used to mow the grass in the field where his rather intimidating doberman pinscher dogs could exercise.
He was indefatigable in battling against any authority, including water companies, banks, hospital trusts and social services.
Tom was a ‘can do’ person and he inspired many others do be the same.
Professor of Vascular Pharmacology, Iain Greenwood, worked alongside him as his Deputee to develop the Kingston Pharmacy degree.
Reflecting on his time working with Tom, he says:
"As a PhD student working in another institution, I was told ‘practice your talk well because Tom Bolton is likely to be present’’.
It was a mark of respect for his scientific veracity and the quality of his science.
When I came to St George’s I was never in Tom’s group but was fortunate to associate with them and to join in the various social events.
“It was a vibrant, eclectic experience.
In later years as a Senior Lecturer, I worked with him on the development of the Kingston Pharmacy degree.
It was always enjoyable although the trip to Kingston in his high-end Subaru was not recommended if you were of a nervous disposition.”
Tom and The Smoothies – research and impact
Tom described membrane depolarising effects and was fascinated by the underlying mechanisms studied by microelectrodes and voltage-clamp.
He applied newly emerging patch clamp and cell isolation techniques to prove that underlying the depolarization was a non-selective cationic transmembrane inward current.
He showed the relationship with intracellular calcium concentration, roles of G proteins and types of muscarinic receptor.
He showed the voltage-dependence of the ionic mechanism and pointed to the role of non-selective cationic channels that are now known as Transient Receptor Potential or TRPs.
He showed that the principles were relevant to the actions of other transmitters such as noradrenaline on arterial smooth muscle cells.
He inspired the field with seminal review articles on the mechanisms of action of transmitters and other substances and excitation-contraction coupling in smooth muscles.
Tom and colleagues recognised that the depolarizing effect did not occur in isolation.
His team identified spontaneous transient outward currents (STOCs), properties of calcium stores and transient outward currents and calcium release events induced by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate.
He introduced new calcium imaging techniques to observe the calcium events and their subcellular distribution in real-time and crosstalk between different types of intracellular calcium-release channels.
Tom and his team combined confocal laser scanning microscopy with simultaneous patch clamp recordings for direct visualization of subcellular calcium signalling targeting ion channels in vascular and visceral smooth muscles, thus further developing his “local calcium control” concept.
His group described depolarization-activated calcium currents and the counterbalancing potassium channel mechanisms.
As such his group was one of the first to characterise calcium-activated potassium channels and delayed rectifier potassium channel current.
Tom’s group also identified two types of adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channel in smooth muscle, one of which was activated by nucleotide diphosphates.
They were amongst the first to describe endothelial-dependent relaxant mechanisms that regulate adjacent smooth muscle cells and interstitial cells in the vascular wall.
Daniel R.
Goldstein, M.D., aged 56, died on May 21, 2024, with his family by his side after a long battle with a rare cancer.
Dr Goldstein graduated from St.
George’s, University of London, before undertaking a medical residency at Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Centre in Baltimore, Maryland, and training in cardiovascular disease, heart failure, and transplantation at the University of Alabama, Birmingham (UAB).
After completing his medical residency and research fellowship training, Dr Goldstein joined Yale University School of Medicine in New Haven, Connecticut, as an Assistant Professor in Internal Medicine.
He was promoted to Associate Professor in 2007 and to Professor in 2013.
In 2016, Dr Goldstein joined the faculty at the University of Michigan as the endowed Eliza Maria Mosher Professor of Internal Medicine and a Research Professor in the Institute of Gerontology.
In 2017, he became the Leader of the Michigan Biology of Cardiovascular Aging Program at the Frankel Cardiovascular Centre.
From 2021 to 2023, he served the field with distinction as the Editor-in-Chief of The Journal of Heart and Lung Transplantation.
He was a member of the American Society of Clinical Investigation, a Paul Beeson Scholar in Aging Research, and a recipient of an Outstanding Investigator R35 Award from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
A renowned physician-scientist and cardiovascular aging expert, Dr Goldstein was continuously funded by the National Institutes of Health for over 20 years and published more than 150 peer-reviewed articles over the course of his 30-year career.
Dr Goldstein significantly influenced the medical profession through his leadership and research in the fields of cardiology and immunology, particularly focusing on the interplay between inflammation, aging, atherosclerosis, and organ transplantation.
Dr Goldstein is remembered by loved ones for being a deeply principled man who believed in equity and the advancement of women in leadership positions in science.
He wanted the scientific community to benefit from his experiences fighting metastatic adenoid cystic carcinoma and published an editorial in the Journal of Heart and Lung Transplantation in October 2023 outlining his treatments.
In the last months of his life, he fought valiantly in a phase I clinical trial to advance treatment for adenoid cystic carcinoma.
Dr Goldstein was best known for his excellence in teaching and mentoring physicians and scientists at all career stages.
Friendly, curious, and always willing to talk or listen, he shared his wisdom and insights with students who were fortunate to benefit from his innovation, energy, and friendship.
He was a devoted and engaged father in the lives of his two children, encouraging their interests outside of school, whether it be tennis, guitar, or soccer.
He shared with them his lifelong love of football and his team, Tottenham Hotspur FC; and he fully embodied their Latin motto: Audere est Facere, "To dare is to do." Daniel Goldstein is survived by his wife of 24 years, Grace Jenq, M.D., and his children Ben and Mia.
He is also survived by his mother, Henrietta Goldstein; sisters, Alison Fredericks and Nathalie Fricker, and brother-in-law Colin Fricker ; plus six nieces and nephews (Alexander, Charlotte, Joshua, Sebastien, Zachary, and Emilie).
In lieu of flowers, the family welcomes donations to the Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma Foundation or to a new M-BOCA Leadership Development Fund to be established at the Frankel Cardiovascular Center.
Daniel will be remembered as a true friend, a superb faculty member and mentor, a beloved son, husband, and father, and an inspiration to all.
His memory will truly be for a blessing.
Douglas was born in Mill Hill, London to Dr Gordon and Mrs Ivy Muriel Millar.
In 1931 Gordon gave up his practice in Mill Hill to move to Tottenham, North London to take over the practice of his father, Dr William Millar who had died.
The Millar family remained in Tottenham, with the exception of the early war years until 1948.
During the Blitz Douglas lived with his mother, godmother, aunt, brother and sister near Welwyn, while his father stayed in London running his mobile surgical ambulance throughout the Blitz, ably supported by his retriever “Sandbags”.
His early schooling was in London and at age 13 he went to Aldenham School, Radlett where he played Cricket and Hockey and was school Captain.
In 1946, somewhat inevitably as his Father and Grandfather were both GP’s, Douglas left school to read medicine at Kings College, London, and then went to St George’s Hospital at Hyde Park Corner to complete the MBBS.
Whilst training at Kings College and St George’s clearly took priority, he also played a great deal of sport, particularly hockey and cricket.
He captained a combined London Universities and United Hospitals hockey team on a tour to Germany, the first post-war British hockey team to tour Germany.
Incorrectly billed in Frankfurt as Great Britain vs Germany, they played in front of a ‘vociferous’ large crowd.
It was an enjoyable tour, but sometimes quite challenging for a 20-year old.
For example, in speeches at a formal reception he was asked by the Mayor of Frankfurt to explain why civilian districts had been targeted in the war; and he also stayed with the family of a former U-boat commander.
He qualified MBBS in 1951 as well as MRCS, LRCP London.
His first year after qualifying was spent at St George’s doing Medicine, Surgery and then Casualty.
In 1953 he decided to do his National Service in the Navy, following his father, and joined the new destroyer, HMS Defender, as acting Surgeon Lieutenant.
Their first duty was the Spithead review after the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II and the next day they sailed for Japanese and Korean waters where for the next 18 months he was sole MO for a crew of 250+ as they patrolled the Korean, Hong Kong, Chinese and Malaysian coasts during latter stages of the Korean War and then beyond the armistice.
His many exploits included helping locals/police on small boat sorties into HK to treat locals, chasing pirates in the straits of Formosa (similar to his father's exploits in 1919), accompanying fully armed, combat boarding parties - as MO, dressed in tropical whites - and various other outings, before HMS Defender steamed up the Johor river to support the army “clearing out the last of the communists” as part of the “Malay emergency”.
He saw much pathology through doing clinics in many different places.
There were also opportunities to play cricket and hockey whilst in Hong Kong, and other highlights included being given the controls of a Sunderland flying boat on a RAF patrol on the west coast of Korea (he had flown a Tiger Moth at school) and, at the age of 25 returning home in late 1954 on a troopship, performing an appendicectomy on a sailor in the middle of the Indian Ocean.
After National Service he returned to St George’s to pursue surgical training, working on the Surgical and Thoracic units, being an Anatomy Prosector at the Royal College of Surgeons and registrar at the London hospital and Black Notley Hospital near Braintree.
He passed the FRCS in London and Edinburgh in 1958.
In 1960 he became a Senior Registrar at St George’s and worked in a number of specialties including paediatric surgery, plastic surgery, breast and thyroid surgery, urology, vascular surgery and latterly, coloproctology with Sir Ralph Marnham and Prof Bryan Brooke.
He also spent a year at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester, where several St George’s senior Registrars had worked.
He met his wife, Sally in 1957 when she was working in outpatients, and who became the youngest ward sister St George’s had had.
They were married in 1960 after Douglas came back from a 6 week tour of the Middle East (Iran, Iraq, Jordan and Cyprus) as Assistant Surgeon to Mr Victor Riddell, organised by the British Council to operate and lecture.
They had three children, Malcolm, Clare and James.
In 1967, he was appointed as Consultant Surgeon to the St Helena Hospital Group in Colchester, Essex, with beds and operating sessions at the Essex County Hospital, and Black Notley Hospital at Braintree where he had been a registrar, when training at the London Hospital.
He also had out-patient clinics at Halstead and Clacton.
It was a typical DGH covering a large area with a population of 250,000 and only four general surgeons and he quickly established himself as a competent general surgeon with particular interests in Breast surgery, Colorectal problems and Vascular work.
He was a brave surgeon and would take on anything that needed to be done.
His particular contributions were in Breast surgery where he realised that segmental excision followed by radiotherapy was appropriate management for many patients and avoided the cosmetic results of the more radical traditional surgery.
He kept records of 130 patients treated in this way.
Also, at that time the radiotherapy unit in Colchester had adopted the Manchester Selectron radiotherapy treatment for some gynaecological cancers, causing significant problems of bowel, bladder and pelvic damage from the radiation.
A number of patients had very troublesome fistulae and Douglas recognised this as a complication and was instrumental in stopping the treatment.
He also created a Uro-ileostomy procedure which bypassed the fistula and considerably helped these patients and wrote about it and presented his results nationally and abroad.
Douglas was President of the Coloproctology section of the Royal Society of Medicine, a Member of the Council of the RSM, President of the Colchester Medical Society in 1974, President of the St Marks Hospital Association, Fellow of the Association of Surgeons of Great Britain and Ireland, Hon Surgical Tutor at the Charing Cross and Westminster Hospitals and Surgical Tutor for the RCS in the North East Essex Hospitals Region.
After he retired in 1992 he served on Medical tribunals as an expert witness in the east of England area.
He was always a keen sportsman, being a good cricketer and Hockey player when younger.
He had been Captain of London University Hockey from 1947 to 49.
He also played 1st XI hockey for Hampshire, Surrey, Middlesex and Hertfordshire, the East of England, the Anglo Scots and for Scotland, for whom he won a cap against Wales in 1956.
He played Cricket for United Hospitals to minor counties level, and in Colchester played into his 50’s, playing for Gents of Essex and captaining the Hoboes CC for 3 years, touring Belgium and Holland.
He was an extremely competitive sportsman in all he did.
Along with golf and painting, he continued his sailing throughout his retirement racing in local and North Sea races, and in later years cruising the East coast widely, as well as the Med with old friends.
Above all he was a devoted family man to his wife and family.
Throughout his life, he was guided and supported by Sally who in her own right had a full and satisfying career, latterly in Colchester as RN for St Helena Hospice and then as a Samaritan for many years.
On every wedding anniversary, Douglas gave Sally a single red rose - a past St George’s tradition that he continued up to her death in August 2023 at 87, placing the last rose on her coffin.
Whilst his health deteriorated after that, he was able to stay at home and was looked after by his children and devoted carers.
It is with sadness that we share the news of the recent passing of former Dean of Students at St George’s, University of London, Dr Robert Lowe.
Dr Lowe played a prominent role at St George’s, overseeing the university’s move from Hyde Park Corner to Tooting during his tenure.
Dr Lowe was Dean of Students from July 1970 until his retirement at the end of July 1982, at which point he also held the position of Secretary of St George’s.
A month prior to his retirement the university’s sports centre was opened bearing his name which endures to this day.
However, it is the University’s move to its current site in southwest London which is arguably Dr Lowe’s lasting legacy.
Our unique location, which helps our students develop their multidisciplinary understanding and develop vital skills for a career in healthcare, is testimony to the vision and hard work of Dr Robert Lowe during his twelve years as Dean.
Construction of our current home began in 1973 and was formally opened on 6 November 1980 by the late Queen, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II (pictured between Robert [left] and Harry Axton [right] at the opening below).
In retirement, Robert continued to challenge himself including once sailing a small boat to New Zealand.
If you would like to share a message of condolence, you can do so by emailing alumni@sgul.ac.uk .
St George’s Medicine alumnus, Dr Andrew Polmear, was born in Aylesbury and grew up in Whitstable.
In 1963, Andrew was awarded a scholarship to read History at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
He later chose to study A-Levels in Biology, Chemistry and Physics in order to complete a Medicine degree, studying at St George’s, University of London and graduating in 1971.
He continued to stay connected to the university as an alumnus and supporter.
Andrew had a distinguished medical career both as practitioner and teacher.
After taking on junior jobs at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital, Southampton General Hospital, St James’, Balham and St George’s, he spent three years from 1974-77 in Hong Kong.
During his time there, he helped set up the Medical Department in the newly-built United Christian Hospital in what was then the refugee area of Kwun Tong.
On his return to the UK, Andrew qualified as a GP and practised in Hove for almost 20 years before moving to the University of Sussex, where he remained until retirement.
He set up the Academic Unit of Primary Care at the university, which was one of the building blocks of the Brighton and Sussex Medical School.
In recognition of his work, he was made a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians.
Andrew also co-wrote six editions of the highly acclaimed ‘Practical General Practice’ with Alex Khot, one of his former GP trainees, as well as writing ‘Evidence-Based Diagnosis in Primary Care: Practical Solutions to Common Problems’.
The book won First Prize in the Primary Care Category in the 2009 British Medical Association Book Awards.
Outside of Medicine, Andrew had a love of Music which began at a young age.
During his time at school he was a Chorister, and subsequently Senior Chorister, at Canterbury Cathedral before being awarded a music scholarship to The King’s School Canterbury.
He was an accomplished cellist and continued to play in a string quartet and piano trio until just weeks before he passed away.
He was also involved in setting up ‘Strings Attached’, the Brighton and Hove chamber music society, and wrote about both music and wine for local publications.
Andrew was an avid traveller and enthusiastic walker who loved the South Downs.
He also loved gardening, and particularly enjoyed spending time on the garden at the home in the Languedoc that he shared with his wife, Margaret, for over thirty years.
Andrew is survived by Margaret, his older brother Jeremy, and his younger sister Caroline.
It is with great sadness that we share the news that Mike Smith, a former Deputy Director of Finance at St George’s, has passed away.
Mike was well-known to many of our alumni and worked closely with the Students’ Union (SU) to ensure investment in, and substantial development of, the University’s bar, retail and recreational areas.
He also completed a business case which ensured that St George’s and the SU kept control of the service and rents at Horton Halls, our Halls of Residence, and that these areas were not outsourced to other providers.
This helped assure both the high quality and affordability of the residence.
Mike set up the first SU lease for the space on the ground floor and the second floor to ensure security and continuity for the SU well into the future, and was made a life member of the SU back in 2009 in recognition of his ongoing support.
Reflecting on his friendship with Mike, SU Bar Manager Richard Ison says:
“Mike frequented the bar and other SU areas and always had time to join in and support SU events.
He was a regular at the annual SU Summer Balls and even joined in some of the student events.
“I remember Mike having a penchant for paperwork – otherwise known as hoarding!
If you ever wanted any committee meeting papers, Mike kept them all on his desk, under his desk and on every horizontal surface in his office.
“Mike loved his two children, James and Josh, and was interested in anything with a motor - especially high-performance British sports cars.
He had amazing sense of humour, a raucous and contagious laugh and a lovely friendly way about him.”
It is with deep regret that we have to inform you that Gay Lucas died on 4 November from complications of Sepsis.
Many of our alumni will remember Gay from their time at St George’s.
She worked at the former St George’s Hospital Medical School site on Hyde Park Corner as Staff Midwife, during which time she taught many students to deliver babies.
She later spent many years in Family Planning, and as a Practice Nurse.
Gay married Class of 1965 Medicine alumnus, Dr Terry Brown, supporting him throughout his Career in Medicine and Radiology.
She loved Classical Music and cookery, becoming Cookery Judge for the Women’s Institute.
If you would like to share any words of condolence with Dr Brown, please email alumni@sgul.ac.uk .
Remembering Sir Joseph Hotung, a major benefactor of St George’s, University of London and recipient of an honorary doctorate from the university, who passed away on 16 December 2021 at the age of 91.
Born in 1930, Sir Joseph was a philanthropist and businessman who contributed greatly towards research at St George’s, both for the hospital and the university.
He funded research into molecular immunology and HIV/AIDS at the university, while the Sir Joseph Hotung Centre provides a facility for musculoskeletal treatment, research, and education on the hospital site.
Sir Joseph was awarded an Honorary Degree of Doctor of Science (Medicine) by St George’s, University of London in recognition of the impact that his funding has had on research at the university.
His contributions were recognised in a small ceremony at his home on Tuesday 14 September 2021, which was attended by Professors Jenny Higham, Jon Friedland, Julian Ma and George Griffin.
The Honorary Degree also celebrated Sir Joseph’s time serving on the University board, during which he contributed his global experience and insight as a Council Member.
At the award ceremony, Sir Joseph shared:
“I’m deeply honoured to be receiving this award.
My association with St George’s, of which I am very proud, goes back many years, in particular with Professor Julian Ma and Professor George Griffin.
I take this opportunity to wish you every success in all your future endeavours.”
In 2003, Sir Joseph funded the building of critical high containment laboratories for research into HIV at the university, along with existing laboratory refurbishments and support staff.
Two Hotung Chairs in Molecular Immunology and Molecular Vaccinology were also endowed to the university for 10 years as part of the investment - going to Julian Ma and Martin Cranage respectively.
Most recently, Sir Joseph invested further into Professor Ma’s Hotung Molecular Immunology Laboratory to develop plant-based manufacturing for antibodies to prevent Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV.
This helped cement the group’s position as an international leader in the field of Plant Biotechnology for Human Health.
Thanks to his funding, the researchers are close to starting clinical trials for a ground-breaking antibody product , produced in plants, to prevent the spread of HIV from pregnant mothers to their unborn children.
Speaking about this work, Professor Ma, Director of the Institute for Infection and Immunity at St George’s , said: “The investment by Sir Joseph is the reason why I came to St George’s.
His funding enabled me to set up a laboratory and state-of-the-art plant growth facility to build my research team and develop novel treatments to tackle HIV.
“I am tremendously grateful for the support Sir Joseph has given me during my time at St George’s, and we will continue to honour his life by pursuing the ambitious goals set for our research.”
The impact of the support St George’s has received from Sir Joseph is extensive.
Over 30 students have been awarded PhDs for their work in research groups that Sir Joseph has funded and many more have been inspired through their contacts with Hotung-funded staff.
In addition, over 100 important scientific publications have been published from St George’s acknowledging the support of the Hotung Charitable Foundation.
Professor Jenny Higham, Principal , commented: “Support from Sir Joseph has been pivotal to St George’s in the past 20 years, both through his financial support and his guidance and intellectual input.
"He has left an indelible mark on research and education at the university that will have a global impact for years to come, through the students he has supported and the patients whowill benefit from his research investments.”
Sir Joseph will be dearly missed by his family, many friends and colleagues, and is survived by his children Joseph, Patrick, Ann and Ellen and their families, as well as his sister Antonia.
It is with great sadness we announce the death of Dr Michael Warburton who worked in the histopathology department at St Georges Medical School for about 20 years, until he retired approximately 10 years ago.
Dr Warburton was born in Manchester on 9 January 1948.
He studied Biochemistry at Cardiff University where he met his future wife, Gill, before completing his PhD at Manchester University.
He followed Gill to America in 1975 and spent two years working at Rockefeller University.
He enjoyed travelling around the USA and Mexico while he was there.
Returning to London, he married Gill in 1978 and went on to have 2 sons, Andrew and Ben, and recently one granddaughter, Cora.
Dr Warburton worked at the Imperial Cancer Research Fund and Ludwig Institute before joining St George's medical school.
He was forced to retire prematurely due to ill health but loved his time at St George's and would often meet former students during his hospital appointments, which brought a smile to his face.Outside work, Dr Warburton loved Manchester City and steam trains and had a thirst for knowledge and reading.
Our condolences go to his family at this difficult time.
We are sad to report the death of William Brough, who qualified in medicine at St George’s in 1976.
William was appointed Consultant General Surgeon to Stepping Hill Hospital, Stockport in 1989 and to Macclesfield District General Hospital in 2001, where he remained until his retirement in 2011.
He had a strong, established reputation in laparoscopic surgery, lecturing and demonstrating both nationally and internationally.
From 1978 to 1985, he took on positions as Senior House Officer and Registrar in Hull, Cambridge and Manchester.
He went on to become Senior Registrar in Manchester in 1985, spending a year in Melbourne as part of his role.
William’s work was widely-published and he took an active role in several medical associations and societies.
He was a member of ten professional organisations, including the Association of Gastrointestinal Surgeons (AUGIS) and The Association of Endoscopic Surgeons, and was a council member of five of these.
William was also an examiner for the Royal College of Surgeons, a member of the 1921 Surgical Club and President of the surgical section of Manchester Medical Society.
William was a keen and talented sportsman, playing cricket in his younger years and later taking up golf, alpine walking, skiing, and cycling.
He also had a pilot’s licence.
He sadly developed Alzheimer’s disease in 2016, during his retirement.
He is survived by his wife, Sylvia, a now retired GP, his children, Tom and Claire and three grandchildren.
If you would like to offer your condolences, please email alumni@sgul.ac.uk.
It is with great sadness that we report the death of our previous Principal, Professor Peter Kopelman.
Professor Kopelman’s association with St George’s, University of London began when he studied medicine here as an undergraduate, and in a long and distinguished career became its Principal (2008 to 2015).
He later spent a year as Vice Chancellor of the University of London from 2018-19.
Prior to his appointment at St George's, he was Vice-Principal of Queen Mary, University of London.
He was an outstanding supporter of St George’s for many years, receiving an honorary Doctor of Science degree in 2017.
Principal Professor Jenny Higham said:
“Peter was a loyal friend of St George's and our community is deeply saddened by his passing.
I last saw Peter here at the university at the opening of our Curve lecture theatre in February 2020.
Looking back, it was a treasured opportunity to talk again about our experiences in the role of Principal.
Our thoughts are with his family and all those who knew Peter well.”
Professor Andy Kent, Dean of Joint Faculty with Kingston, University of London said:
“I will always remember Peter with great affection.
He had an easy charm and a warm sense of humour, and that enviable capacity to make whomever he was talking to feel the centre of his world.
He was always terrific company, with many stories to tell.
"Stand out memories include watching him impersonate Rocky running up the steps of Philadelphia’s Museum of Modern Art in his pinstripe suit during a break from negotiations with Thomas Jefferson University.
"It is with huge sadness that I learnt of his death.
My thoughts are very much with Peter’s wife Sue, herself a huge friend to St George’s over many years, and their children, of whom Peter was so very proud.”
Professor Kopelman had a long-standing interest in diabetes care and initiated a district-wide scheme for integrated care in East London.
He was active in health policy, medical education and research.
Professor Kopelman was chair or deputy chair of several national university committees and a member of NHS national policy and workforce committees.
He chaired the Clinical Examining Board of the Royal College of Physicians, the Royal Pharmaceutical Society Faculty and Education Board and Health Education England’s Oversight Board for Medical Associate Practitioners.
Professor Kopelman’s major research interest was in the field of obesity, in particular endocrine aspects and possible genetic determinants.
He was also interested in the pathophysiology of associated complications and their management.
He was a past chairman of the Association for the Study of Obesity, President of the European Association for the Study of Obesity, a Trustee of the International Association for the Study of Obesity and a member of the Department of Health and Food Standards Agency Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition.
He was also a member of the Chief Medical Officer’s Working Group on physical activity.
He was chair of the Royal College of Physicians Committee on Nutrition and chaired the College’s Working Party on the management of obesity with particular reference to drug therapy.
He also chaired the Royal College of Physicians’ Working Party on nutritional care of patients that resulted in the publication of a report entitled Nutrition and Patients – a Doctor’s Responsibility.
The Rev'd Canon Ian Ainsworth-Smith, Chaplain at St George's Healthcare NHS Trust, sadly died in March this year.
He served at the Trust for 33 years from 1973- 2006, during which he interacted with many staff at St George’s, University of London.
He made significant contributions to both the Clinical Research Ethics Committee and the Clinical Ethics Committee, later becoming its Chairperson.
Canon Ainsworth-Smith was also a clinician and trained Psychotherapist, specialising in eating disorders and taking on patients referred to him by the Psychiatry Department.
He ran therapy groups when St George‘s had its own Psychiatry Unit, as well as teaching communication skills to medical students to help them approach difficult situations such as breaking bad news.
‘Letting Go’, his book on the care of the dying and the bereaved (which he co-wrote with Peter Speck), was published in 1982 and is still in print.
The book’s success resulted in many invitations to speak publicly.
Canon Ainsworth-Smith received casualties following the Hyde Park bomb blast in July 1982, offering pastoral care for people injured in severe traumatic circumstances.
He later played a central role in providing emotional support to those injured, or waiting for news on injured loved ones, during the 1988 Clapham Rail Disaster – one of the biggest challenges St George’s Hospital had ever faced.
Canon Ainsworth-Smith later worked in the staff debriefing and support groups and was a key member of the committee charged with distributing the money raised to help the injured and bereaved.
He participated in the annual memorial services for the rest of his time at St George’s.
In this tribute below, Canon Ian Ainsworth-Smith's friends and colleagues, Rev’d Canon Hilary Johnson (his successor) and Professor J Hubert Lacey, share their memories of him.
“It is fair to say that Ian was the most known and approached person in the St George’s group of hospitals and its Medical School.
He was ideally suited to the role of Chaplain; his intelligence, emotional warmth and pastoral heart, meant that he was welcomed by staff and patients, especially at crisis moments in their lives.
Ian’s rich and varied ministry includes his pioneering work with parents experiencing a miscarriage or stillbirth.
He gathered a number of empathetic midwives around himself and worked with them to revolutionise the way the needs of these grieving parents are understood and addressed.
“He was a welcome guest of The St George’s Nurses League at their twice-yearly meetings, especially at the Meeting held each year on St George’s Day, which was followed by a well-attended Service in the Hospital Chapel.
“Ian was the best of colleagues, very supportive and always adaptable.
He enjoyed training potential healthcare Chaplains, and he was an excellent mentor for several lead Chaplains from other teaching hospitals.
Ian was active in the movement for the ordination of women – even narrowly avoiding being arrested during a demonstration on the steps of St Paul’s.
Ian married his wife Jean in 1965, after meeting in Cambridge where they were both members of the Cambridge University Gilbert & Sullivan Society.
Jean was singing in The Mikado and Ian was her makeup man.
He always said that when he looked into her eyes, that was it!
They were a team throughout and were always seen as two halves of a whole.
Once they had both retired, they moved to Somerset.
Ian remained very much in-demand, not only for ecclesiastical duties but also ethical advice and as a lecturer and Chaplain on cruises.
Accompanied by Jean, he visited every continent including Antarctica.
“Ian was the best of colleagues.
He understood hospitals and the stresses endemic within them as few others did.
He epitomised the kind, caring knowledgeable chaplain who always seems to be there when needed and at the right time.”
Canon Ainsworth-Smith is survived by Jean and their sons, Mark who is a Consultant Pre-Hospital Care Practitioner and Richard who is a Metropolitan Police Officer.
PhD Alumnus and Reader in Medical Microbiology, Dr Dilip Banerjee, sadly passed away in January 2021 from an aortic dissection.
Dr Banerjee will be fondly remembered by the St George’s community, with many speaking of his kindness, generosity, and his ability to bring his subject to life for his students.
Dr Banerjee was born in Rajshahi, formerly in India but now in Bangladesh.
The death of both his mother and brother of tuberculosis when he was six years old, led him to dedicate much of his career to the eradication of the disease.
After studying Medicine at Calcutta National Medical College, Dr Banerjee went on to be one of the founders of Students Health Home in Kolkata, still active today, which provides free healthcare and medication to those in need.
After working there, he moved to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, where he met his wife, who was an Assistant Research Officer at the Institute at the time.
They married in 1967 and moved to the UK the following year for Dr Banerjee to complete his PhD in Medical Microbiology at St George’s.
Dr Banerjee’s career at St George’s, University of London spanned 34 years.
He started at St George’s as a Research Registrar and PhD student at our former campus on Hyde Park Corner, later moving to the Tooting Campus as staff.
He began his career here as a Consultant Microbiologist, publishing ‘Microbiology of Infectious Diseases’ (a pocket book for medical students) in 1985.
Friends and family speak of his love and passion for his work at St George’s, where he was treated before his death.
Former student, Dr Philip Strike, says of Dr Banerjee:
“Dilip Banerjee possessed the amazing ability to explain complexities of Microbiology to medical students with patience and clarity whilst always being engaging and entertaining.
His book for undergraduates was very possibly the thing that got me through my pathology exams.
"I was fortunate enough to get to know him better several years later and he was always warm and welcoming.
He always had interesting things to say and was interested in other people and their views and experiences.
He was a gentle, kind and generous man and I will miss him very much.”
In 1994, Dr Banerjee became a university Reader in Medical Microbiology, a position which he held until he retired in 2001.
In the 1990s, Dr Banerjee introduced genetic fingerprinting to map the epidemiology of tuberculosis in London, significantly improving ‘tracking and tracing’ of the disease.
This research helped determine factors contributing to the spread of tuberculosis and highlighted a need for increased primary healthcare and public health control measures.
He also led the Undergraduate Microbiology teaching and the Clinical Pathology training programmes at the university.
Class of 1987 alumnus, Tom Hyde, says: “Microbiology wasn't the most exciting topic on the curriculum for me.
I saw it as boring until we began our practical sessions with Dilip.
The man behind the book was an enigma.
A shock of white hair with a white coat, he was ahead of his time - ‘Back to the Future’ had not even been released!
"His passion, enthusiasm and ability to inspire young students was incredible.
He brought the subject to life - a truly inspirational man and teacher.
I will remember him as hugely warm, caring and generous.”
As well as writing and speaking internationally about his research into tuberculosis, his work on leprosy informed a subsequently internationally-recognised triple therapy for the disease.
In later years, he became Chair of Pathology Services and Clinical Director of Diagnostic Services, in St George’s Hospital as well as a fellow of the Royal College of Pathologists.
A close colleague and friend, Professor Philip Butcher (currently Professor of Molecular Microbiology at St George’s Institute for Infection and Immunity) says: “Dilip had been my wise and supportive mentor and was a central and much respected colleague across St George’s University and Hospital.
He was the quintessential clinical academic - doctor, teacher and scientist”.
Throughout his life, Dr Banerjee had a passion for travel and making friends.
His daughter, Dr Shrilla Banerjee, speaks of his love of socialising and meeting new people:
“Whenever he and my mother went on holiday, they would come back with new friends.
The consultants treating him at St George’s all spoke of how they knew him as a St George’s legend, who would be well-remembered by everyone here.”
Professor Brian Fyffe Robinson sadly passed away on 5 December 2020 at the London Hospital at the age of 91 following a long illness.
Professor Brian Robinson was born in Carshalton, Surrey, and educated at Sutton Grammar School during the Second World War.
He studied medicine, anatomy and physiology at King's College in The Strand with clinical studies at St George's at St George’s, University of London, from 1958-1951.
After graduating, Brian joined St George's Hospital as a House Officer, later becoming a Senior Lecturer and a Reader.
He then became the first Professor of Cardiovascular Medicine within the same institution, firstly at Hyde Park Corner and later at Tooting.
From 1962 – 1993, Professor Robinson collaborated with others on several papers concerning human pharmacological studies of peripheral veins and arteries with colleagues.
During a two-year period of research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in Bethesda, Washington (from 1965 - 67), he published with Professor Eugene Braunwald and Steve E.
Epstein.
Professor Eugene Braunwald was the first to define the pathophysiology of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and Steve E.
Epstein was Chief of the Cardiology Branch of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute at the National Institute of Health in Bethesda.
Later, after returning to London, he published papers with Professor Tony Dornhorst, John Vane, Joe Collier and Patrick Vallance, amongst others, over a thirty year period.
Brian had worked alongside other researchers who received the Nobel Prize, including Sir James Black and Sir John Robert Vane.
After leaving London, during retirement, Professor Robinson lived near Taunton, for 25 years.
In 2014, whilst retired, Brian received a request to join a Committee within the Home Office advising the Prison Service.
During this time, he worked upon methods to alleviate the risk of HIV infection amongst prison inmates and collaborated in training programs for Prison Staff.
We are sad to share the news that Kenneth Saunders, Emeritus Professor of Physiological Medicine, has died.
Professor Saunders was a Professor of Medicine at St George's from 1980-1996.
Professor Saunders is remembered by many former students as an outstanding teacher and clinician.
He had a rich career in medicine, taking on several positions of responsibility throughout his career.
As well as his role at St George’s, he took on junior and research posts at St Thomas' Hospital, Hammersmith Hospital and in the Cardiovascular Research Unit at the University of California, San Francisco.
Professor Saunders is fondly remembered by his colleagues.
Former colleague, Mark Noble, worked alongside him as a research fellow at Comroe’s Cardiovascular Research Institute (CVRI) in the University of California, San Fransisco from 1966-1968.
Mark Noble and Professor Rogers later set up a collaboration with the late John Widdicombe’s Physiology department.
Mark says: “The recent death of Professor Ken Saunders is very sad and evokes memories of good past times.
"Ken was a great example of what a Professor of Medicine should be, being widely educated, fluent in Latin and general knowledge.
"His knowledge of Medicine was vast, with no super-speciality prejudices.
However, he was tolerant of people with reasonable new ideas.
Ken was for us, the archetypical, knowledgeable, gentleman doctor."
Former St George’s colleague, Professor Peter Mortimer, says: “Ken was helpful and encouraging.
He offered support where he could, but was never interfering.
"Looking back, I could not have expected anything more from him and my subsequent success with obtaining grants and establishing a laboratory was in no small part due to him.
I will be forever grateful to him for that opportunity.”
Professor Saunders spent almost a decade at Middlesex Hospital Medical School - first as a senior lecturer in Medicine, before becoming postgraduate sub-dean and later becoming a reader in Medicine there.
From 1990-94, Professor Saunders was Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of London and became an emeritus Professor of Medicine at the University of London in 1996.
Professor Saunders was a member of several societies and committees, including the General Medical Council and a special Advisory Committee on General Internal Medicine, and was also an honorary consultant physician to the Army for two years.
He also co-founded the European Respiratory Society.
He wrote a number of papers on respiratory medicine and science in Clinical Science, and was a Censor and international examiner of the Royal College of Physicians.
He had a lifelong fascination with the Classics, adding the study of Eqyptian to Latin and Greek, and contributing to the understanding of medicine in Homer that is accepted as definitive by scholars - occupations that he joked could be done sitting down.
His health had deteriorated and he died at home on April 5th of a longstanding motor neurone condition.
Professor Saunders leaves behind his wife, Philippa, and his son and daughter Kate and Stephen.
They will arrange a burial of his ashes in Cornwall, and - when possible - a celebration of his life in London.
If you would like to share your memories of Professor Saunders or messages of condolences, please email alumni@sgul.ac.uk .
Margaret Elizabeth Gardner was born in Chard, Somerset on 22 June 1926.
After gaining her school certificate at Ilminster Girls’ Grammar School she trained in nursery nursing.
She trained at the National Childrens’ Home, first at Holmwood Bristol, a home for nursery school children, and then at Harpenden caring for babies.
She obtained her nursery nurses’ diploma before working at Oxted, then Woking, over a period of three years.
In 1949, Margaret started her general nurse training at St George’s at our former campus in Hyde Park Corner.
After completing her training, she continued to work at St George’s as a ward sister for several years before completing a nurse tutor course at Queen Elizabeth College, Holland Park.
Margaret then returned to St George’s as a Nurse Tutor, where she stayed for another three years, before responding to a need for a nurse tutor at Wesley Guild Hospital (Ilesha) Nigeria.
Margaret stayed at the hospital for 11 years between 1961 and 1972.
On returning to Britain, she worked as a nurse tutor at University College Cardiff before becoming Director of Nurse Education at Southmead Hospital in Bristol until she retired.
During this time she lived in Westbury on Trym in Bristol.
She lived in her own home before moving to St Monica Trust Retirement Village until she died on 30th April 2020.
Margaret always had a strong Christian belief and devoted much time to supporting the work of the Methodist Church and to the service of others.
Margaret’s cousin, Peter Warne, says:
“She was an intelligent, humorous and generous woman, who used her gifts to support young people as they started their nursing careers.”
Emeritus Professor of Endocrinology Saffron Whitehead sadly passed away on 18 February 2019.
She will be remembered for raising the profile of endocrinology and women’s health through her research, writing, media and public engagement activities.
She will be greatly missed by staff and students alike.
Professor Whitehead was an eminent scientist with a passion for endocrinology and a real champion for women’s health.
She was prolific author, and in fact her latest book Managing Obesity: a practical guide for clinicians was published alongside co-author Dr Gul Bano earlier this year.
Across her academic career, she published 55 notable papers, five reviews and three endocrinology text books, which became definitive texts on many university degree courses.
Saffron was a thoughtful and supportive colleague and supervisor, who gave willingly of her vast font of knowledge and wisdom.
Saffron gained her PhD in 1974 from McMaster University in Canada, where she specialised in Medical Sciences (Neuroendocrinology).
Prior to that, she graduated from University College London in 1967-1970 with a BSc Physiology (Hons).
Long before it became mainstream, she was researching the interactions of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC) and hormones and how they impact on fertility and cancer.
Saffron joined St George’s University of London in 1978 as lecturer in both endocrinology and reproduction.
She was responsible, alongside Professor Helen Mason, for creating the third year Science of Reproduction module for the BSc/iBSc in Biomedical Science, and will be remembered fondly by her students across the years.
To help advance the public discussion around better understanding of science, she published articles in the media in publications such as New Scientist and The Guardian , under her married name, ‘Saffron Davies’.
She was a constant advocate of women in science, having herself combined raising a family with maintaining a scientific career.
She also contributed regularly to TV and radio shows, including appearances on BBC4’s ‘The Fantastical World of Hormones’ with John Wass and Radio 4’s ‘Women’s Hour’.
She was the scientific advisor on ‘Tide Tables’ a 2011 play supported by the Wellcome Trust and the Society for Endocrinology (SfE).
The play centred on the challenges of midlife as a time of significant biological change.
Saffron contributed to her scientific field beyond her teaching and research responsibilities with active roles in both the Physiology Society and the SfE.
She was a member of the Physiology Society from 1980, edited the Physiology News (1994-98) and served on Council (1995-99).
Likewise, Saffron served on the editorial board for The Endocrinologist for many years and was the editor from 2004-2005.
She was the Chair of the Public Engagement committee for the SfE, also managing Press enquiries on publications and scientific breakthroughs for the Society.
Saffron was hard-working but always full of fun, and this was evident in the fact that despite retiring several years ago, she was still actively teaching and was a personal tutor at St George’s.
Outside of her work, Saffron was also a governor for Oak Lodge School for the deaf.
In addition she volunteered with the Shaw Trust, a charity helping people gain an education, enter work, develop their career, improve their wellbeing or rebuild their lives.
Saffron was an active tennis player and loved to play the piano.
Saffron is survived by her husband Dr John Davies, three sons, daughters-in-law and four grandchildren.
Dr Peter Wale grew up in Welwyn Garden City and completed his pre-clinical studies at St George’s before graduating from Kings College London in 1955.
During National Service, he trained as a Radiographer and was then posted to East Africa, where he led the Radiography unit at the Royal Military Hospital, Nairobi.
However, on his outward he caught Dengue fever.
In Nairobi he contracted bacillary dysentery, resulting in embolisms .
He was treated with the first anticoagulant, Dicumarol, before being repatriated and medically discharged in 1949.
Peter was a House Surgeon and House Physician at Farnborough Hospital, Kent, before a House Physician post at Hammersmith Hospital’s Radiotherapy department set him on his career path.
He later worked in Registrar posts at Charing Cross and Guy’s Hospital.
After being appointed Consultant at Oldchurch Hospital, Romford, he became a member of the Faculty of Radiologists in Clinical Radiotherapy (FFR).
His final appointment, before retiring in 1990, was at the Derby Royal Hospital, where he modernised and built up the department and the hospice.
Retirement gave Peter the opportunity to focus on his life-long passion for monochrome photography, as well as travelling to Africa, Australia and America.
He also enjoyed walking in the Peak District with friends.
Peter was widowed in 2007 and is sadly missed by his four sons and three granddaughters.
We are sorry to announce the sudden death of Neil Manley following a road traffic accident on Sunday 30 June.
Neil had completed a BA in Contemporary Media Practices at the University of Westminster before changing track and moving into Physiotherapy.
After graduating from St George’s in 2013, Neil worked in various physiotherapy jobs in and out of London, including at Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust and the Southwark Enablement Team.
Neil was well-loved by his classmates, colleagues and patients for his warm and caring nature, and following his death his family has received many letters from those he treated, paying testament to his patience and compassion.
Lecturers at St George’s have commented on his commitment and dedication to his studies and have shared fond memories of visiting him on placement, where he was popular with the patients in his care.
Should friends and classmates wish to show their support, Neil’s family asks that instead of sending flowers a donation be made to the London Air Ambulance service and St George's Neuro ICU, where Neil was treated.
Neil will be sorely missed by those who knew him, but his family finds comfort in the care he received at the end of his life at St George's, a place he loved so much.
Dr Norton Lynn Short MBE, who died in November 2018, attended St George’s from 1952-1958.
Norton was awarded his MBE for services to medicine in 1998, and became a fellow of the Royal College of General Practitioners in 2000, having dedicated his life to the advancement of medical science.
Having completed his degree at St George's, Norton went on to pursue a career spanning forty years as a GP in Kent.
He published a range of articles on clinical and medico-legal subjects and also medical ethics.
Keen to share his knowledge with the next generation, Norton taught as part of the faculty of the Royal College of General Practitioners between 2003-2010, where he was also an accreditation visitor from 1990 - 2006.
Norton took an interest in the management and wider success of the NHS, having held a position as a Healthy Authority member for Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust from 1985 to 1993.
In addition, he was a Board Member of the Queens Nursing Institute from 1985-1993.
At home, his interests extended well beyond science, with travel, history and opera among his passions, even resulting in an MA degree.
While completing his studies at St George's, Norton was also a member of the undergraduate Rugby team.
Norton held an impressive list of qualifications, including an MBBS ( Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery ) DRCOG (Diploma from the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists) and MRCGP (Member of the Royal College of General Practitioners).
Norton leaves behind his wife Chrys Short and five children from two marriages.
Both Norton's wife Chrys and his former wife Barbara, who also studied at St George's, were nurses.
Four of his children now work in medicine and healthcare, with two daughters who went on to become nurses and two sons who followed in his footsteps to become doctors.
Our condolences go to his family and friends.
Professor Denis Mitchison, who has died aged 98, will be remembered for his outstanding contribution to the field of tuberculosis research.
‘Denny' as he was known, was Emeritus Professor in the Institute for Infection and Immunity at St George's, and only formally retired from academic life in 2015.
As a pathologist in the 1940s, at the Brompton Hospital in London, Denis Mitchison carried out the first randomized controlled clinical trial which involved tuberculosis.
He and his colleagues investigated the antibiotic streptomycin, comparing its efficacy with the then standard treatment, bed rest.
He pioneered drug combinations to address antibiotic resistance which was already on the rise.
Later, as Director of the Medical Research Council Unit for Research on Drug Sensitivity in Tuberculosis, he turned his attention to the problem of TB in the developing world.
He devised a pioneering set of trials in India that compared inpatient and outpatient treatment of TB.
These showed that home care was just as effective as being held in a sanatorium for months and led to a new WHO plan to get treatment out to those who needed it.
His research on drug combinations led to the reduction of treatment periods, and he was at the forefront of developing so called ‘short-course' regimes.
These short course regimens remain the basis of today's current standard TB therapy.
His enormous body of work was recorded in more than 250 publications and recognised with prestigious awards.
Even after his first ‘retirement' in 1985 he continued to innovate in the field, developing new techniques to measure early bactericidal activity of drugs and establishing new approaches to accelerate phase II clinical studies for TB drugs.
We extend our warmest sympathies to his family.
Sheila Evelyn Bradford (nee Haigh), who completed her Nursing training at St George’s, died in December 2018.
She was an enthusiastic member of the St George’s Nurse's League and attended their 25th and 50th year reunions.
Sheila was born in London in 1938 and suffered from scoliosis throughout her life but did not let this prevent her from having an active lifestyle.
In her free time, she enjoyed playing squash and dancing, and took part in competitive sailing.
After completing her training at St George’s, she decided to complete an army short-service commission.
Once accepted, she took and passed her Part 1 midwifery exam, and proceeded to the Queen Alexandra's Royal Army Nursing Corps (QARANC) Depot and Training Centre (QATC).
She was then posted to London Queen Alexandra's Military Hospital at Millbank, which later became Queen Elizabeth Military Hospital.
There, she helped treat those in the services who were repatriated from worldwide units and military hospitals for specialist care.
Sheila met her husband David, a doctor in the army, when working at the same hospital, and they were engaged and married within the year – on his birthday on 12th December 1962.
Shortly after becoming engaged she was posted to her first and only overseas post - to the British Military Hospital in Hanover, Germany.
She stayed there for a few months before returning to the UK to get married.
Sheila was fascinated by different cultures and she and her husband enjoyed travelling.
She spent some of her time abroad teaching English to Chinese friends in Hong Kong, and later learnt German while back in Hannover many years after her solo posting.
They would later spend much of their time in Christchurch, New Zealand, where their daughter Tafflyn lives.
Sheila leaves behind her two daughters Tafflyn and Melissa, eight grandchildren and a great grandson.
Our condolences and best wishes to her family.
Nigel was brought up in Guernsey and Dorset and did his pre-clinical training at University College London.
We were allocated rooms in a shared house in Norbury and moved together to another house in Balham and then a flat in Tooting High Street.
Nigel had several enduring interests---motorbikes, hockey and historic architecture---apart from medicine.
He was proud owner of a T120 Triumph Bonneville which was sadly stolen from outside the Tooting flat.
Nigel was captain of the SGHMS hockey team.
I remember him enthusiastically clambering over the site of a Turkish amphitheatre and pointing out interesting features of old churches.
Nigel initially aimed at a career in Surgery, but had difficulty with the exams and eventually settled down to a career as a GP in Sussex.
He eventually married an Art Dealer and they made their home in a listed manor house in a delightful Oxfordshire village, where he delighted in looking after the grounds and garden.
He still owned a large motorbike.
He developed cardiac arrhythmias and despite expert assessment died suddenly at home.
Nigel was my best man and I returned the favour.
Obituary written by friend and classmate Keith Mundy.
Grant attended St George’s from  1972-1977.
He was a GP in the Lillie Road practice in Fulham from 1980-2010, and became senior partner in 2005.
He was also  senior teaching fellow and final year GP course coordinator for Primary Care at  Imperial College.
For many years he was the joint head of the year 6 student assistantship on the undergraduate medicine course.
He became an advisor for the PCT on primary care in HMP Wormwood Scrubs and worked on a system redesign for the Prison Health Service.
In 2006 he took a four-week sabbatical in China, organised through the RCGP,  to advance  Primary Health Care in China.
This was the start of a great working relationship with the health service in Zhejiang province, centred in Hangzhou (a major city about three hours from Shanghai).
He devised with colleagues  a curriculum to enhance the consultation and   communication skills community physicians locally.
He visited universities, teaching students and modelling the kind of consultation he would do at home.
For all his long years as a stalwart teacher of Primary Care at Imperial and its delivery at Lillie Rd Practice in Fulham, it was his contribution to the development of the Chinese Health Service of which he was really proud.
In the last month of his life a delegation from Hangzhou came to see him and present a special letter of appreciation.
This described him as the ‘one who has dug the well for primary care in Zhejiang’.
He was delighted with it, and with being made an honorary consultant in community health care in Zhejiang.
Grant was a devoted family man, and is survived by his wife Alison and two daughters Eve and Lottie.
Obituary written by friend and classmate George Turner.
We are sad to record the death of Dr Edward M “Ed” Dunbar, who graduated from St George's in 1972.
Edward died suddenly at home on 6 December.
He was an irrepressible character and a highly respected consultant in infectious diseases in Manchester and the North West.
Edward had a special interest in, and commitment to, management of HIV infection, also travelling to Africa to support communities there.
He was a brilliant runner in his youth, being part of the team that brought the Hospitals Cup running championship to St.
George's for the first time in our history in 1967.
His devotion to causes was passionate – exemplified not only by his approach to high quality clinical care but also his support for the Wales rugby team.
Edward's wife is alumna Professor Jacky Hayden, who graduated in 1974 and worked as a GP before being appointed as Dean of Postgraduate Medical Studies for the North Western Deanery NHS North and Manchester.
There, she established systematic processes to ensure that doctors and dentists completing training to provide the highest possible patient care.
Jacky has also contributed to several other boards and committees such as Medical Education England and the Royal College of General Practitioners.
Our condolences and best wishes to Jacky and their two sons.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-alumni/alumni-data-protection-statement.aspx:
The Development and Alumni Relations Office keeps in touch with university alumni, friends and supporters, providing benefits and services to them and engaging in relationships to support the activities of the university.
This statement outlines how the Development and Alumni Relations Office of the St George’s, University of London handles and uses the data it collects.
Paper records are also held.
The terms of this statement may change, so please check it from time to time.
If you have any queries about this privacy statement, please contact the Data Protection Officer.
Development and Alumni Office St George’s, University of London Cranmer Terrace Tooting London SW17 0RE 020 8725 5879 Alumni office email
Data Protection Officer St George‘s, University of London Cranmer Terrace Tooting London SW17 0RE 020 8725 0668 Data protection email
St George’s is registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) for the purposes of UK data protection legislation, registration number Z5770328.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office holds personal data collected by the university during the course of our relationship with our alumni, supporters and friends.
Student data held by St George’s, University of London, such as name, details and degree information, are copied from central university records and used to create a record for all alumni on the Development and Alumni Relations Office database.
We also hold records on non-alumni friends of the university, which includes donors, potential donors and those who have become actively engaged with the university.
A proportion of the information stored will have been obtained directly from you, for example when you register for an event or enquire about our activities; some of the data may also have been obtained from publicly available sources and appended to your record.
We may also use third parties to provide contact information, wealth screening (through which we receive indicators of individual wealth from an approved external supplier) and indicate whether our alumni, friends and potential supporters may be interested in giving.
The data we hold on you will also be analysed to indicate which of our services, activities and appeals you may be interested in.
All data are held securely and in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2016/679 and the UK Data Protection Act 2018.
The personal data stored and processed by the Development Office may include:
biographical information
your gender
contact details
information about your time at the university, and other education history
your professional activities
membership of groups such as the Friends of Senate House Library and the Society of Advanced Legal Study
current interests and activities, which may include extracts from related media stories
family and spouse/partner details
relationships to other alumni, donors and friends
donor status, research and fundraiser reports/briefings and wealth assessment information, indicators of your interest in giving, ethical and reputational risk analysis
records of communications, meetings and marketing activities by the university
volunteering by you on behalf of the university
registration and attendance at events
donation details if you express an interest in or make a donation to the university.
If you make a donation to the George’s, University of London, you have the option of deciding whether your name can be used on donor lists or other stewardship materials and you have the ability to opt out of future communications.
We obtain personal information from you when you enquire about our activities, register for an event or service, make a donation to the university or otherwise provide us with personal information.
We may record sensitive data you provide directly to us for a specific purpose, eg about a disability you disclose to us to ensure we have proper facilities in place at our events.
The university uses records for alumni relations and fundraising purposes.
These include publications (print and electronic), alumni surveys, appeals and the marketing of alumni events and services such as providing transcripts, access to Senate House Library, reduced costs for use of Student Central etc.
Communications may be sent by post, telephone or electronic means.
We may also contact you for marketing, promotional and fundraising purposes.
These types of communications include:
informing you of other products, services or events related to St George’s, University of London, such as alumni, friends and supporter events, courses, reunions or networks
updates on university news
other relevant communications based upon your relationship with St George’s, University of London
information on fundraising operations, including occasional requests to consider giving financial support to the university, or to ask you to consider supporting the university in other ways.
Any such electronic communications will be made in accordance with the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations.
You can opt out of any or all of our communications at any point by contacting the alumni office .
All alumni and St George’s staff data is processed under the legal basis of legitimate interest.
Due to the existing relationship between alumni and St George’s, processing of data is of clear legitimate interest to both parties.
‘Parents and families’ data is processed under the legal basis of contract, only when clear written permission is given.
Unless you have requested otherwise, data held by the Development and Alumni Relations Office is accessible to the university and its institutes.
Data is used and processed for a full range of alumni activities and programmes involving academic and administrative departments, and a full range of communications and marketing activity (by mail, email, text and telephone), including the sending of university publications and the notification of alumni events, fundraising programmes and for the promotion of benefits and services.
Tools may be used to monitor the effectiveness of the university’s communications with you, including email tracking which records when an email from us is opened and/or how many links are clicked within the message.
Your data will not be disclosed to external organisations other than those acting as agents for the university.
External organisations such as those who:
manage our telephone campaign
provide the tools for our e-newsletter
host our customer relations database.
Whenever data is transferred to these third-party organisations, it is compressed and encrypted, then sent via secure upload.
The university may facilitate communication between individual alumni, but in doing so does not release personal contact details without prior permission.
Since a relationship between an alumnus and their alma mater is life long, we have no end retention time point.
If an alumnus were to die, all processing would cease although the data would be retained to ensure they were not accidently contacted.
Under the GDPR Right to Erasure, if requested, all data on a specific alumnus will be deleted.
The university is committed to holding your data securely and treating it with sensitivity.
All information is held and transmitted securely.
Data is held in accordance with the university’s security policy .
You are in control of your data.
You have a choice about whether you want to receive information about the university, our progress or fundraising activities, and by which methods of communication.
We will not use your personal information for marketing purposes if you have indicated to us that you do not wish to be contacted in this way.
You can change your marketing and contact preferences at any time by contacting the Development and Alumni Relations Office at St George’s, University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London, SW17 0RE, UK or via email .
We will work with you individually and personally to ensure we are adhering to your wishes.
If you wish to restrict data processing or sharing including use for marketing or do not want to be contacted by the university in any way, please inform us.
You can request that we remove your details from our database by contacting the Development and Alumni Relations Office.
We will publish any changes we make to this data protection statement and, where appropriate, notify you by email.
The university aims to keep your data up to date and welcomes any updates to your details you may wish to send.
We continuously review records of alumni and supporters to ensure your data is as accurate as possible.
We may consult alternative sources in order undertake these checks, eg Royal Mail address files, reviewing job information that you have made publicly available via social media, newspaper articles, company filings, corporate websites and other publicly available sources.
Where we appoint an external party to undertake this type of review, any such arrangements will be subject to a formal agreement between the university and that organisation, to protect the security of your data.
You have a right to request copies of the data held about you by the Development and Alumni Relations Office and the wider university.
To do so, please contact the alumni office .
The terms of this statement may change, so please check it periodically.
This statement was last updated May 2018.
Our website may include links to websites run by other organisations.
St George’s, University of London is not responsible for the privacy practices of these other websites so you should read their privacy policies carefully.
By providing us with your personal data, you consent to the collection and use of this information in accordance with the purposes described above and this privacy statement.
More information can be found in the university’s full data protection policy .
If you have any questions or wish to update your record, please contact the Development and Alumni Relations Office at St George’s, University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London, SW17 0RE or via email .
If you are unhappy with the way in which your personal data is being processed you may, in the first instance, lodge a complaint with the university Data Protection Officer using the contact details above.
The Information Commissioner can be contacted as below.
Information Commissioner’s Office website

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/offer-holders:
We’re thrilled that you have chosen to continue your education with us, and we hope to welcome you at the start of term.
The information and advice on these pages are designed to guide you through the required steps needed to go from firm offer holder (conditional or unconditional) to enrolment.
Some areas, such as fitness to practise requirements, are necessary steps you must take before you can receive an unconditional offer , so please ensure you read the information carefully.
Please start by selecting the relevant area, based on the course you are holding an offer for.
Learn more about your next steps as an offer holder through UCAS
All you need to know about being a direct (postgraduate) offer holder
Everything you need if you recieved your offer last year
We know deciding which university to go to is a big decision.
Our events are designed to help you learn more about City St George's and what it's like to study with us.
We host a number of opportunities for applicants and offer holders to visit the City St George’s Tooting campus, find out more about your course and what it’s like to study here.
Biomedical Science BSc / MSci
Clinical Pharmacology BSc
Diagnostic Radiography BSc
Healthcare Science BSc
Medicine MBBS 5-year / Graduate Entry 4-year
Occupational Therapy BSc / MSc (pre-registration)
Paramedic Science BSc
Physician Associate Studies MPAS
Physiotherapy BSc / MSc (pre-registration)
Radiotherapy and Oncology BSc .
Advanced Breast Practice PgCert / MSc
Advanced Clinical Practice PgDip / MSc
Biomedical Science MRes (all pathways)
Clinical Neuroscience Practice PgCert / MSc
Genomic Medicine PgCert / PgDip / MSc
Global Health MSc (all pathways)
Healthcare and Biomedical Education PgCert
Healthcare Research Skills and Methods PgCert
Heart Failure MSc
Medical Ethics, Law and Humanities MA
Interpretation and Clinical Application of Genomic Data PgCert
Sports Cardiology PgCert / PgDip / MSc
Please feel free to contact us if you need any help.
You can email us or call 0203 897 2222.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/league-tables:
Choosing which university to attend for your undergraduate degree is one of the biggest decisions you will ever make.
There are a number of resources available to help you through this process.
These include attending a recruitment event , speaking with a student ambassador and contacting the University’s student recruitment team.
University league tables are also a tool which can be used to help with your decision-making.
This page explains more about university league tables and what they mean.
The rankings here were awarded to us when we were St George's, University of London.
Learn about the rankings of our new institution City St George's, University of London .
University league tables are lists issued by education industry publications which provide a quick-reference comparison of universities across the UK and around the world.
Each publication uses their own unique methodology and different categories of assessment, which might include factors such as:
These league tables are a useful reference and offer a brief snapshot of the University on the particular date that they were submitted.
It is important to remember that they will never be able to offer a full picture of a university, what it has to offer and what the experience of being a student there will be like, nor are they able to capture improvements happening at the time of your application.
If you are keen to review St George’s position in the league tables, you may be concerned that you don’t see us in every publication.
Don’t worry, due to the University’s specialist nature, there are several league tables with size thresholds in which St George’s  does not appear.
To help you interpret the most recent league tables, here’s a short summary.
In the 2025 Complete University Guide league table ,  St George’s, University of London ranked third in the UK for graduate prospects - outcomes.
This means that the majority of St George’s students are in work or further study after completing their first degree.
We also ranked second for graduate prospects - on track which means that recent graduates of St George’s agree that their activity is on track with their future plans.
At St George’s, our undergraduate courses are practical and vocational, they will prepare you for your chosen profession and give you the best chance at securing a job after graduation.
Overall in this guide, St George’s ranked 69th: rising 9 places from 2024 .
The University also saw a strong performance in Paramedic Science which ranked 21st for the subject area .
In the 2024 Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide St George’s sits proudly at 2nd place for graduate prospects, which reflects our commitment to ensuring our graduates are prepared for the workforce.
The University also ranked 12 th in London and 79 th overall.
We are listed as one of the top 350 universities in the world as well as ranking in the top 175 for Clinical, pre-clinical & health by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings (2024) .
You may not see St George’s across all league tables; due to its specialist nature, there are several league tables with size thresholds in which the University does not appear.
Despite their important role in supporting students with the decision-making process, it’s important to remember that league tables can only provide a snapshot of what studying an undergraduate degree at a particular university may be like.
In order to make the most informed decision, its important to research and decide which areas are more important to you.
A crucial part of the research process is to reach out and speak to people at the university you’re interested in, to learn more first hand.
To better understand the student experience at St George’s, all prospective students are encouraged to get in touch with the Student Recruitment Team by emailing study@sgul.ac.uk to have questions answered.
You may also wish to attend a recruitment event or speak with a student ambassador to gain a more personal insight into what it’s like to study at the UK’s specialist health university.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/international-student-support/enrolment:
Enrolment is when you officially register on your course and is very important.
It’s at enrolment that you get your student ID card and officially become a City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences student.
This will also give you access to university resources.
If you are studying on a full-time undergraduate or postgraduate programme starting in September, enrolment will take place during induction week, which all students should attend.
During induction week, students will enrol, meet their classmates, find out more about the range of support City St George’s has to offer, attend various introductory sessions and start some academic teaching.
An induction timetable will be sent to students nearer the time.
This will include details about the time, date and venue of all activities.
Some activities can be completed online.
There are additional social activities and information sessions for international students which are intended to prepare you for studying at City St George’s as well as living in the UK.
Please see below for more information.
The ‘Settling in’ section of our pre-departure guide (PDF) also contains information about induction.
If you are enrolling on a short course of study (for example, a medical elective or the summer school), your enrolment and induction will be organised by the admissions and/or course team.
The Right to Study check is part of the onsite enrolment process for international students.This includes students who are here as a visitor for a short amount of time.
Find out what documents you are required to bring.
Find out the benefits of attending, from getting the opportunity to familiarising yourself with the campus.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/international-student-support/during-your-studies:
This section contains information for students who already have a student visa.
Your  immigration permission will be subject to certain conditions; it is very important that as well as progressing academically, you continue to meet all the conditions of your leave so that you can complete your studies as planned.
You can contact us if you have any questions about your visa status.
As a Student Visa holder, you must remember that you have certain responsibilities to us and UKVI including, attending and engaging in your studies.
If you are currently on a UK visa, you may be interested in travelling around Europe during your vacation periods.
In order to visit you, your visitor may need to apply for a Standard Visitor visa (SVV).
An interruption of studies (IOS) needs to be approved at an appropriate level by your programme team.
Find out what documents you will need to submit and what the general requirements are for submitting a visa extension application.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/international-student-support/english-language-requirements:
All teaching at City St George’s Tooting campus is delivered in English, therefore, you must be proficient in reading, writing, speaking and listening in English to excel on your chosen course.
The level of English Language you are required to demonstrate is dependent upon the programme for which you have applied.
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) requires that every student requiring a visa to study in the UK must show evidence of a minimum level of English Language in order to be granted a Student Route visa (formerly Tier 4) to study at undergraduate or postgraduate level.
For more information about student visas, see St George's Visa and Immigration Support .
You can meet our English language requirements in one of the following ways:
If you are a national from a majority English speaking country as specified by UKVI listed below, you do not need to demonstrate your English Language proficiency :
Please note: Standard checks must still be carried out to ensure you meet our GCSE English requirements, as published on our course entry requirement pages .
The requirements for English Language Tests are split into three groups.
Review which group you fall into, and then view your test requirements below.
Applied Biomedical Science
Biomedical Science
Physician Associate Studies
Please note: all English Language Tests must be dated within two years of the start date of your chosen programme.
Qualification
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3
Most Common
IELTS Academic
(Also accept One Skills Retake)
7.0 overall with 7.0 in Writing and 6.5 in all other components
6.5 overall with 6.5 in Writing and 6.0 in all other components
7.5 overall with 7.5 in Writing and 7.0 in all other components
Test of English as a Foreign Language: TOEFL (iBT) and (iBT Paper)
93 overall with 27 in Writing, 20 in Listening and Speaking, and 19 in Reading.
79 overall with 24 in Writing, 14 in Listening and Speaking, and 18 in Reading.
102 overall with 28 in Writing, 22 in Listening and Speaking, and 20 in Reading.
Please note, we do not accept the TOEFL Paper-Delivered Test
A-Z of English Language Tests
Cambridge Advanced English: CAE
185 overall with 185 in Writing and 176 in all other components
176 overall with 176 in Writing and 169 in all other components
191 overall with 191 in Writing and 185 in all other components
Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English: CPE
LanguageCert ESOL
Including SELT, International ESOL, Online version
C1 Expert with 33 in each component
OR
C2 Mastery with 233 in Writing, Speaking and Reading, and 25 in Listening.
B2 Communicator with 38 in Writing and 33 in all other components
LanguageCert Academic (SELT, and non-SELT) (Valid from 1April 2024)
75 overall, with 75 in Writing and 70 in all other components
70 overall, with 70 in Writing and 65 in all other components
80 overall, with 80 in Writing and 75 in all other components
Occupational English Test: OET (OET Paper/Computer) and (OET @ Home)
Grade B/350 in all elements
Grade C+/300 in all elements
ONCAMPUS Test of English (OCTOE)
70% overall with 70% in writing and 65% in all other components
65% overall with 65% in writing and 60% in all other components
Pearson Test of English: PTE (Academic)
65 overall with 65 in Writing and 59 in all other components
59 overall with 59 in Writing and 59 in all other components
73 overall with 73 in Writing and 59 in all other components
Trinity Integrated Skills in English: Trinity ISE
ISE (III) with pass in all components
ISE (II) with distinction in all components
ISE (III) with merit in all components
You will be considered as having met our English Language requirements if you are able to provide evidence of one of the following professional registrations:
Please note: You are required to list this registration on your application form and provide evidence of your registration when requested by the Admissions team.
There are several academic qualifications that we accept as demonstration of your English Language proficiency.
You will need to have studied English Language as a subject.
Please note: any qualification used to meet our English Language requirements must be dated within five years of the start date of your chosen programme.
Academic Level
Grade
Level 2
GSCE English Language – for undergraduate programmes
Grade 4 - 6 depending on course.
See course pages
GCSE English Language – for postgraduate programmes
Grade 5
SQA Scottish Intermediate 2 or National 5 English
Grade B
Level 3
AS Level: English Language
A Level: English Language
International Baccalaureate
See International qualifications (taken prior to degree study) below
SQA Scottish Higher/Advanced Higher English
Level 6
Undergraduate degree
2:2
Level 7
Postgraduate degree
Pass
If your country or qualification is not listed below, you will be required to obtain another English Language qualification listed on this page, such as IELTS, etc.
Country
European Baccalaureate English – Level 1
Grade 6
European Baccalaureate English – Level 2
Grade 7
European Baccalaureate English – Level 3
Grade 7.5
iGCSE English as a First Language – for undergraduate programmes
iGCSE English Language – for postgraduate programmes
iGCSE English as a Second Language
One grade higher than for iGCSE English as a First Language (i.e.
Grade 5 -7 depending on course)
Please note, all iGCSEs must state Reading, Writing, Speaking, and Listening on the statement of results / certificate.
International Baccalaureate English A - Standard Level* (Language & Literature; or Literature)
Grade  4 - 5 (See course pages )
International Baccalaureate English B – Standard Level
International Baccalaureate English A - Higher Level - Language and Literature; or Literature
Grade 4
International Baccalaureate English B - Higher Level
Level 5
*Please note: we do not accept IB English A SL - Literature and Performance
A-Z of countries
Austria
Austria Reifeprüfungszeugnis - English
2 (gut) in written and oral components
Belgium
Belgium Diploma van Secundair – English
80%,
16 out of 20 ,
grote onderscheiding,
avec grande distinction
Certificate d'Enseignement Secondaire Superieur - English
Botswana
Botswana General Certificate of Secondary Education (BGCSE) School Certificate English Language
Brunei
Brunei O Level (taken with Cambridge International Exams (Specification 1120)) English
Denmark
Bevis for Hojere Forberedelseseksamen English
Score of 10
Bevis for Studentereksamen English
Finland
Studentexamensbetyg English
English 5
Ylioppilastutkintotodistus English
France
Baccalaureate - English LV1
14 out of 20
Baccalaureate - OIB English
12 out of 20
Germany
Abitur – English as a main course
13
Abitur – English Language as a Leistungkurs
2/6
Hong Kong
HKCEE English
Level 4
HKDSE English
Hong Kong AS Level English
Iceland
Iceland Stúdentspróf (bóknámsbraut) – English as a compulsory language
8
India
HSC English / Standard XII English – National Exam Boards: CBSE/ ISC
70%
HSC English / Standard XII English – State Exam Boards (excluding: Haryana/ Uttar Pradesh/ Bihar/ Gujrat/ Punjab/ Uttarakhand)
80%
Ireland (Republic of)
Ireland Leaving Certificate English (Higher or Ordinary)
Grade O4/H4
Kenya
KCSE English
Luxembourg
Luxembourg Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires – English
45 (bien)
Malaysia
SPM UCLES Syllabus in English
Grade A
Mauritius
Mauritius O Level (taken with Cambridge International Exams (Specification 1125/1126)) English
Netherlands
Netherlands Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) – English
8 (goed)
Nigeria
See West Africa below.
Norway
Vitnemal – English
4 out of 6
Singapore
O Level English Language (taken with Cambridge International Exams)
Singapore Cambridge A-Level (including SIPCAL/ Integrated Programme) – English Language
SIPCAL/ Integrated Programme – General Paper
South Africa
South Africa NSC – English Home Language
South Africa NSC – English First Additional Language
Sweden
Slutbetyg – English
15/20
Switzerland
Switzerland Certificat de Maturité – English
5 (bien, gut, bene)
Maturitätszeugnis – English
Attestato di Maturità – English
Tanzania
Tanzanian Certificate of Secondary Education English
Uganda
Ugandan Certificate of Education (UCE) English
USA
High school diploma English
West Africa
WAEC / WASSCE / NECO – English
C5
Zambia
Zambian General Certificate of Education, English
Grade 6/C
Zimbabwe
Zimbabwe General Certificate of Education English: C
Credit (5-6)
If you have an academic qualification equivalent to a UK Bachelors, Masters, or Doctorate degree which was taught in one of the majority-English-speaking countries below (excludes Canada), you will meet our English Language requirements.
The degree must be completed no more than 5 years before the start date of your studies.
If you have an academic qualification equivalent to a UK Bachelors, Masters, or Doctorate degree, which was taught and examined (in its entirety) in English from one of the countries below, you will meet our English Language requirements.
To evidence this requirement, you will need:

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/international-student-support/international-students-at-st-georges.aspx:
Welcome to City St George’s, University of London School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus).
We share our campus with one of the UK’s largest teaching hospitals, meaning that you’ll be immersed in a professional environment from day one.
If you're looking to start your studies in 2024 or beyond, sign up now to learn more about studying with us.
This course prepares you to pursue a career in medicine or research, or specialise in areas such as forensic medicine, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, clinical trial coordination or biomedical marketing.
The only undergraduate course dedicated to Clinical Pharmacology, this course blends clinical and fundamental sciences with an innovative integrated approach.
Whether you’re fascinated by the workings of the human body or like the idea of helping people live their best lives, physiotherapy offers a rewarding career promoting health and wellbeing.
Genomic medicine is a rapidly evolving discipline that is already making an impact in the field of oncology, pharmacology, infectious disease and biomedical research.
Designed and delivered by innovative clinicians and academics, this course will develop your knowledge and skills in state-of-the-art clinical neuroscience practice.
This course has been specifically designed for graduates of health and life sciences disciplines with a desire to pursue a career in Physiotherapy.
Find out first hand what it's like to study at City St George's, University of London by starting a conversation with our friendly Unibuddy Ambassadors.
Learn more about our programmes and research opportunities, find out about upcoming events and uncover practical advice about funding, scholarships, applications and life at City St George's.
Find out more information about our undergraduate entry requirements for international qualifications.
Find out more information about our postgraduate entry requirements for international qualifications.
Read our miniguide to find out more about what it's like to study at City St George's, University of London School of Health & Medical Sciences as an international student.
Join us for our next virtual open day on 29 November to find out about our undergraduate health and science courses as well as what life is like at City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences.
Find out what makes us such a unique institution, learn more about our programmes and how you can apply to study with us, and discover the vibrant student life that is at the heart of our community.
Read about the international impact of the research being conducted by scientists at City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/international-student-support/international-qualifications-undergraduate-study.aspx:
For course-specific requirements for 2024 entry we advise you to visit the entry requirements section of the course page for your course of interest.
Please note there will be no changes to MBBS entry requirements for any country listed below for 2024.
At City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences we accept a wide variety of international qualifications.
Find out more information about our entry requirements for international qualifications by selecting a country from the A-Z list below.
International applicants should review general entry requirements, including specific subject requirements on our course pages in conjunction with the requirements outlined on this page.
If your country or qualification is not listed below: You still are welcome to apply.
You may also email study@sgul.ac.uk if you advice on whether your qualification will be accepted.
If you wish to apply for an undergraduate degree on the basis of an previous degree: For graduates applying to undergraduate courses, you will be subject to UK ENIC confirming that your degree is equivalent to a UK degree, and meeting our English Language requirements.
Required degree classifications and subject areas can be viewed on our course pages.
Please view our Honours Equivalency policy here
Do I need to complete GCSEs?
Please note that Level 2 (GCSE-level) requirements are only needed if you had an opportunity to study GCSEs or iGCSEs.
If you did not study GCSEs or iGCSEs in your country, we will need you to evidence that you have met our Maths and English Language requirements in another way.
Maths should be included in your Level 3 qualifications (below).
English Language Requirements: Please view the qualifications we accept to meet our English Language requirements .
We do not accept the Afghanistan High School Diploma / Baccalauria for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
You can progress to Year 1 of a number of St George’s undergraduate programmes via one of our approved international foundation providers.
Please list of foundation providers below .
We do not accept the Albanian Diplome e Matures Shteteroe (Diploma of State Matura) for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
You can progress to Year 1 of a number of City St George’s undergraduate programmes via one of our approved international foundation providers.
We will accept the following qualifications for entry to our Bachelor programmes (unless otherwise stated):
Please see grade equivalencies here:
A-Level requirement:
Senior Secondary Certificate of Education
Senior Secondary Certificate of Education plus an ATAR score of 96 or OP band of 2
Senior Secondary Certificate of Education plus an ATAR score of 92 or OP band of 4/5
BBB
Senior Secondary Certificate of Education plus an ATAR score of 90 or OP band of 6
Senior Secondary Certificate of Education plus an ATAR score of 88 or OP band of 7
* Senior Secondary Certificate of Education from the relevant stare/territory: Australian Capital Territory Senior Secondary Certificate / Higher School Certificate (New South Wales) / Northern Territory Certificate of Education and Training / Queensland Certificate of Education / South Australian Certificate of Education / Tasmanian Certificate of Education / Victorian Certificate of Education /Western Australia Certificate of Education
Many of our degree programmes have specific subject requirements at A-Level.
Please see grade equivalencies above and below.
For course specific subject requirements, please visit the course pages here .
We will accept the Senior Secondary Certificate of Education for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
UK A-level requirement:
Senior Secondary Certificate of Education requirement
AAA (including Biology and Chemistry)
Senior Secondary Certificate of Education plus an ATAR score of 96 or OP band of 2.
Must have studied Biology and Chemistry in Year 12 with top grades.
We do not accept the Bahrain General Secondary Education Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We do not accept the Bangladesh Higher Secondary Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We do not accept the Certificado de Ensino Médio for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
1 year of study at a Brazilian  University in a relevant subject
Average GPA of 7.5
Average GPA of 7.0
Average GPA of 6.5
Please see grade equivalencies below.
UK subject requirement (A-level)
1 year of study at a Brazilian University
A
Must be in relevant subject and include subjects specified on the course pages
B
Certificado de Ensino Médio / 1 year of study at a Brazilian University are not accepted for direct entry to Medicine MBBS.
We will accept the following qualifications for direct entry to all our Bachelor programmes (unless otherwise stated):
Brunei Cambridge A-Level
AAA (See MBBS section below)
ABB (Including subjects specified on course pages)
BBB (Including subjects specified on course pages)
BBC (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Please see grade equivalencies below:
For course specific requirements, please visit the course pages here .
Medicine MBBS
We will accept the Brunei Cambridge A-Level for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Brunei Cambridge A-Level requirement
We will accept the following qualifications for direct entry to our Bachelor programmes.
UK A-level requirement
Diploma za Sredno Obravozanie (Diploma of Secondary Education) requirement
5.4 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
5.2 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
5.0 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Diploma za Sredno Obravozanie (Diploma of Secondary Education)
5.5 (in grade 12 subject)
5.0 (in grade 12 subject)
Diploma za Sredno Obravozanie (Diploma of Secondary Education) is not accepted for direct entry to Medicine MBBS.
Alberta High School Diploma; Nunavut Secondary School Graduation Diploma; or Saskatchewan Transcript of Secondary Level Achievement
At least 87% in five grade 12/30 level courses including Biology and Chemistry (See MBBS section below)
At least 80% in five grade 12/30 level courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 77% in five grade 12/30 level courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 75% in five grade 12/30 level courses with subjects specified on course pages
British Columbia Certificate of Graduation (also known as Dogwood Diploma); Yukon Senior Secondary Graduation Diploma
At least 87% or AAAAB in five grade 12 courses including Biology and Chemistry (See MBBS section below)
At least 80% or AABBB in five grade 12 courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 77% or ABBBB in five grade 12 courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 75% or BBBCC in five grade 12 courses including one science
Manitoba High School Diploma; or Newfoundland and Labrador High School Graduation Diploma
At least 87% in 5 grade 12/300 level credits including biology and chemistry (See MBBS section below)
At least 80% in 5 grade 12/300 level with subjects specified on course pages
At least 77% in 5 grade 12/300 level with subjects specified on course pages
At least 75% in 5 grade 12/300 level credits including one science
New Brunswick High School Diploma; Northwest Territories High School Diploma; or Nova Scotia High School Graduation Diploma
At least 87% in 5 grade 12 courses including Biology and Chemistry (See MBBS section below)
At least 80% in 5 grade 12 courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 77% in 5 grade 12 courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 75% in 5 grade 12 courses including one science
Ontario Secondary School Diploma
At least 87% in five grade 12 U / M courses including Biology and Chemistry (See MBBS section below)
At least 80% in five grade 12 U / M courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 77% in five grade 12 U / M courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 75% in five grade 12 U / M courses including one science
Prince Edward Island High School Graduation Diploma
At least 87% in five grade 12/level 6 courses including Biology and Chemistry (See MBBS section below)
At least 80% in five grade 12/level 6 courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 77% in five grade 12/level 6 courses with subjects specified on course pages
At least 75% in five grade 12/level 6 courses including one science
Quebec - Diplôme d'Études Collégiales (DEC)
At least 80% overall with 80% in subjects specified on course pages
At least 77% overall with 77% in subjects specified on course pages
At least 75% overall with 75% in subjects specified on course pages
We will accept the Canadian High School Diploma for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Canadian High School Diploma (All Territories)
At least 87% or AAAAB in five grade 12 courses including Biology and Chemistry (or equivalent grade depending on Territory - see above)
We will accept the following qualifications for entry to our Bachelor programmes.
Senior High School Certificate (Huikao), PLUS National College Entrance Examination (NCEE/Gaokao)
Chinese 2- or 3-year Junior College Diploma/Sub-degree programme (Zhuanke/Dazhuan)
85% overall with 85% in at least one subject
80% overall with subjects specified on course pages
75% overall with subjects specified on course pages
Please see grade equivalency below:
85%
C
75%
Senior High School Certificate (Huikao), PLUS National College Entrance Examination (NCEE/Gaokao), and Chinese 2- or 3-year Junior College Diploma/Sub-degree programme (Zhuanke/Dazhuan) are not accepted for direct entry to Medicine MBBS.
Apolytirion of Lykeion
19 overall with 2 A-Levels* at AA (See MBBS section below)
18 overall with 2 Pancyprian exams* at 17 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
17 overall with 2 Pancyprian exams* at 16 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Pancyprian Exam*
17
16
*Please note: a Pancyprian exam can be substituted by an A-level, AP, IB HL etc
We will accept the Apolytirion of Lykeion supplemented by 2 A-levels (or equivalent) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Apolytirion of Lykeion (& A-level)
19 overall with 2 A Levels* at AA in Biology and Chemistry
We do not accept the Egyptian Certificate of General Secondary Education for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We will accept the following qualifications for entry to our Bachelor programmes:
Diplôme du Baccalauréat Général
14 overall (with 14 in relevant subjects taken in year 12/13)
13 overall (with 12.5 in relevant subjects taken in year 12/13)
12.5 (with 12.5 in relevant subjects taken in year 12/13)
12 overall (with 11 in relevant subjects taken in year 12/13)
We will accept the Diplôme du Baccalauréat Général for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
14 overall including Biology / Earth Sciences and Physics & Chemistry with 14/15 (taken in Year 12 and 13)
Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife (Abitur)
1.4 overall (with 13/15 in required subjects)
1.8 overall (with 12/15 in relevant subjects)
2.0 overall (12/15 in relevant subjects)
2.2 overall (11/15 in relevant subjects)
We will accept the Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife (Abitur) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
1.4 overall including LK Biology and Chemistry with 13/15.
Apolytirio Lykeiou
19 overall with 2 A-Levels at AA (see MBBS section below)
18 overall with 2 Panhellenic exams at 17
17 overall with 2 Panhellenic exams at 16
Panhellenic Exam*
*Please note: a Panhellenic exam can be substituted by an A-level, AP, IB HL etc
We will accept the Apolytirio Lykeiou supplemented by 2 A-levels (or equivalent) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
19 overall with 2 A Levels at AA in Biology & Chemistry
Applicants for courses other than MBBS can meet the below requirements through either:
HKDSE
See MBBS section below
544 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
444 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
443 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
5
3
We will accept the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
4 in Core Maths, 5 in English and three electives at 555 including Biology & Chemistry
We do not accept the Iran High School Diploma for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
Pre-University Certificate (Peeshdaneshgahe)
Overall score of 18/20 (with at least 18/20 in relevant subjects – See MBBS section below)
Overall score of 17/20 (with at least 17/20 in relevant subjects)
Overall score of 16/20 (with at least 16/20 in relevant subjects)
Overall score of 15/20 (with at least 15/20 in relevant subjects)
We will accept the Pre-University Certificate (Peeshdaneshgahe) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Overall score of 18/20 (with at least 18/20 in Biology & Chemistry)
We do not accept the Iraqi Secondary School Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
Irish Leaving Certificate
H1 H1 H2 H2 H2 H2 (see MBBS section below)
H2 H2 H2 H3 H3
H2 H2 H3 H3 H3
H2 H3 H3 H3 H3
H3 H3 H4 H4 H4
CCD
H3 H4 H4 H4 H4
H1/H2
H2/H3
H3/H4
We will accept the Irish Leaving Certificate for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
H1 H1 H2 H2 H2 H2, including H1 in Biology and Chemistry
We accept the following qualifications for entry to our Bachelor programmes.
Higher Secondary Certificate/Standard XII (any board, state or central)
90% (See MBBS section below)
75% (Including subjects specified on course pages)
72% (Including subjects specified on course pages)
70% (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Standard XII equivalent
90%
We accept the Higher Secondary Certificate/Standard XII (any board, state or central) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Higher Secondary Certificate/Standard XII (any board, state or central) requirement
90% Overall including 90% in Biology and Chemistry
We accept the following qualifications for entry to our Bachelor programmes:
Diploma di Esame di Stato
Overall score of 90 (see MBBS section below)
Overall score of 85 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Overall score of 80 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Overall score of 75 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
We accept the Diploma di Esame di Stato for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Overall score of 90 including 9/10 in Biology and Chemistry (taken during the final 3 years of Liceo (upper secondary school))
We do not accept the Upper Secondary School Graduation Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We do not accept the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We do not accept the Kuwait General secondary Education Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We accept the following qualifications for direct entry to all our Bachelor programmes (unless otherwise stated):
STPM (Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia) (Malaysia Higher School Certificate)
STPM
AAA (See MBBS Section below)
ABB (Including subjects specified on course pages)
BBB (Including subjects specified on course pages)
BBC (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Matrikulasi (Matriculation Certificate)
Bio-based stream - with an overall GPA of 3.75 out of 4.0, including 3.67 in Biology and Chemistry (See MBBS Section below)
Bio-based stream - with an overall GPA of 3.25 out of 4.0, with 3.25 in subjects specified on course pages
Bio-based stream - with an overall GPA of 3.0 out of 4.0, with 3.0 in subjects specified on course pages
Bio-based stream - with an overall GPA of 2.75 out of 4.0, with 3.0 in subjects specified on course pages
UEC (Unified Examination Certificate) Senior Middle Level
Grades of A2 in three subjects and all remaining subjects at B3 with subjects specified on course pages
With grades of B3 in all subjects including subjects specified on the course pages
Matrikulasi
UEC
See above and below
We accept STPM (Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia) (Malaysia Higher School Certificate) and Matrikulasi (Matriculation Certificate) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
SPTM
Bio-based stream - with an overall GPA of 3.75 out of 4.0, including 3.67 in Biology and Chemistry
UEC (Unified Examination Certificate) Senior Middle Level is not accepted for entry to Medicine MBBS.
We do not accept the Moroccan Attestation du Baccalauréat for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO)
7.8 overall (see MBBS section below)
7.0 overall including 7/10 in subjects specified on the course pages
6.8 overall including 7/10 in subjects specified on the course pages
6.4 overall including 6/10 in subjects specified on the course pages
8/10
7/10
6/10
We accept the Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
7.8 overall including 8/10 in Biology and Chemistry
We accept the following qualifications for direct entry to our Bachelor programmes:
National Certificate of Educational Achievement (NCEA) Level 3
Endorsed overall with Excellence , including 20 Level 3 credits in each subject specified on the course pages, with Merit (M) or higher in the majority of credits
Endorsed overall with Merit , including 20 Level 3 credits in each subject specified on the course pages, with Merit (M) or higher in the majority of credits
Endorsed overall with Merit , including 20 Level 3 credits in each subject specified on the course pages, with Merit (M) or higher in at least a third of credits
For course specific subject requirements, please visit the course pages here.
We accept the National Certificate of Educational Achievement (NCEA) Level 3) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Endorsed overall with Excellence , including 20 Level 3 credits each in Biology and Chemistry, with Excellent (E) in the majority of credits
We do not accept the West African Senior School Certificate (WASSC/WAEC) / Senior School Certificate (NECO) for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We accept the following qualifications for entry to our Bachelor programmes (unless otherwise stated):
One year of study at a Nigerian university in a relevant subject
National Diploma/Higher National Diploma with Lower Credit
N/A (see MBBS section below)
ave.
GPA of at least 3.2/4.0 or 4.0/5.0 with subjects specified on course pages
Distinction with subjects specified on the course pages
GPA of at least 3.0/4.0 or 3.75/5.0 with subjects specified on course pages
Upper Credit with subjects specified on the course pages
GPA of at least 2.8/4.0 or 3.5/5.0 with subjects specified on course pages
Lower Credit with subjects specified on the course pages
One year of study at a Nigerian university in a relevant subject or National Diploma/Higher National Diploma are not accepted for direct entry to Medicine MBBS.
Vitnemal
4.5 overall (see MBBS section below)
4.2 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
4.0 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
3.7 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
We accept the Vitnemal for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Vitnemal overall 4.5, with grade 5 in Biology & Chemistry
We do not accept the Oman General Education Diploma for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We do not accept Pakistan Intermediate / Higher Secondary Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our programmes.
You can progress to Year 1 of City St George’s via one of our approved international foundation providers.
Bachelor of Science/Arts/Commerce (Pass/ Honours) – 2-3 year degree; in a relevant subject.
First Class degree/at least 75%/a GPA of 3.3/4.0
a First Class degree/at least 70%/a GPA of 3.0/4.0
a First Class degree/at least 65%/a GPA of 2.66/4.0
Bachelor of Science/Arts/Commerce (Pass/ Honours) – 2-3 year degree, is not accepted for direct entry to Medicine MBBS.
We do not accept the Palestine General Secondary Education Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
Polish Matura
85% in 3 extended levels including Biology and Chemistry (see MBBS section below)
75% in 3 extended levels including any subjects specified on course pages
70% in 3 extended levels including any subjects specified on course pages
65% in 3 extended levels including any subjects specified on course pages
We accept the Polish Matura for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
85% in 3 extended levels including Biology and Chemistry
Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação / Certificado Nível Secundário de Educação
18 overall including 18/20 in Biology & Geology and Physics & Chemistry (see MBBS section below)
17 overall including any subjects specified on the course pages
16 overall including any subjects specified on the course pages
18
14
We accept the Diploma Nível Secundário de Educação / Certificado Nível Secundário de Educação for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
18 overall including 18/20 in Biology & Geology and Physics & Chemistry
We do not accept the Philippines Senior High School Diploma for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We do not accept the Qatar Senior School Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
We accept the following qualifications for entry to all our Bachelor programmes (unless otherwise stated):
Diplomă de Bacalaureat.
8.5 overall including any subjects specified on course pages
8.0 overall including any subjects specified on course pages
7.5 overall including any subjects specified on course pages
BCC
7.0 overall including any subjects specified on course pages
Diplomă de Bacalaureat grade 12 class
9.0
8.0
7.0
We will accept the Diplomă de Bacalaureat for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Diplomă de Bacalaureat
9.0 overall supplemented by Biology and Chemistry via through one of the following:
- A-level Biology & Chemistry at AA
- Diploma de Bacalaureat exam in Biology and Chemisty at 9.0 in named exam(s)
- IB HL Biology & Chemistry at 6,6
- AP Biology & Chemisty at 5,5
A combination of 2 of the above-named exams may be accepted (e.g.
A level Biology Grade A & Diploma de Bacalaureat exam Chemisty at 9.0)
We do not accept the Thanawiya (General Secondary Education Certificate) for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
One year of study at a Saudi university in a relevant subject
An Associate Degree/Intermediate University Degree in Health Sciences/2 year Diploma from a Health College
GPA of at least 4.0/5.0 or 3.2/4.0 with subjects specified on course pages
Final GPA of at least 4.0/5.0 or 3.2/4.0 in a relevant subject
GPA of at least 3.75/5.0 or 3.0/4.0 with subjects specified on course pages
Final GPA of at least 3.75/5.0 or 3.0/4.0 in a relevant subject
GPA of at least 3.5/5.0 or 2.8/4.0 with subjects specified on course pages
Final GPA of at least 3.5/5.0 or 2.8/4.0 in a relevant subject
One year of study at a Saudi Arabian university in a relevant subject or National Diploma/Higher National Diploma are not accepted for direct entry to Medicine MBBS.
Serbian Diploma
5.0/5.0 (See MBBS section below)
4.5/5.0 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
4.0/5.0 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
5.0
We accept the Diploma o položenom završnom ispitu (Diploma of Completed Final Examination), Diploma o položenom maturskom ispitu (Secondary School Leaving Diploma), Diploma o stečenom srednjem obrazovanju (Diploma of Completed Secondary Education) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
5.0/5.0 (including 5.0 in Biology and Chemistry)
Singapore Cambridge A-Level
Singapore Polytechnic Diploma
3.5 / 4.0
2.9 / 4.0
2.8 / 4.0
2.7 / 4.0
Diploma must be in relevant subject and include subjects specified on the course pages
We accept the Singapore Cambridge A-Level (including SIPCAL/ Integrated Programme) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Singapore Cambridge A-Level requirement
National Senior Certificate (NSC) - best 5 subjects (excluding Life Orientation)
77766 (See MBBS section below)
76666 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
66666 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
66655 (Including subjects specified on course pages)
National Senior Certificate (NSC)
7*
6*
*Please note: For NSC, Life Sciences, and Physical Sciences are the respective equivalents to A-level Biology, and Chemistry.
We accept the National Senior Certificate (NSC) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
77766 (Including Life Sciences and Physical Sciences at grade 7)
We do not accept the High School Diploma for entry to Year 1 of our programmes.
You can progress to Year 1 of a number of City St George’s undergraduate programmes via one of our approved international  foundation providers.
Associate Degree / Junior College Diploma / 1 year of study at a South Korean University
3.5/4.5, 3.4/4.3 or 3.2/4.0
3.3/4.5, 3.2/4.3 or 3.0/4.0
3.1/4.5, 3.0/4.3 or 2.8/4.0
South Korean High School Diploma/ Associate Degree / Junior College Diploma/ 1 year of study at a South Korean University are not accepted for direct entry to Medicine MBBS.
Título de Bachiller/Bachillerato
8.5 overall (See MBBS section below)
7.8 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
7.5 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
7.3 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
We accept the Título de Bachiller/Bachillerato for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
8.5 overall including Biology and Chemistry with 9/10 (studied in Year 2)
Avgångsbetyg/Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola/Högskoleförberedande examen
Total 2500 credits completed, and 18 overall (see MBBS section below)
Total 2500 credits completed, and 17 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Total 2500 credits completed, and 16.5 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
Total 2500 credits completed, and 16 overall (Including subjects specified on course pages)
We accept the Avgångsbetyg/Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola/Högskoleförberedande examen for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
Total 2500 credits completed, and 18 overall with A in Biology & Chemistry
Please note : The Certificate must be federally recognised; certificates only recognised by the canton are not considered to be of the same standard.
Swiss Matura
5.0 overall including 5 in Biology and Chemistry (see MBBS section below)
4.5 overall including any subjects specified on the course pages
4.3 overall including any subjects specified on the course pages
4.0 overall including any subjects specified on the course pages
4.5
We accept the Swiss Matura exams for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
5.0 overall including 5 in Biology and Chemistry
We do not accept the Taiwan Senior High School Diploma for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
Tanzanian ACSE
AAA (See MBBS section below)
We accept the Tanzanian Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education (ACSE) for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
We do not accept the Ukrainian Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education (Atestat) for entry to Year 1 of our programmes.
We will accept the following qualifications for entry to Year 1 to all our Bachelor programmes (unless otherwise stated):
At least 1 year of study at a Ukrainian University
Minimum average GPA of 4.0/5.0, 75%, or 9/12 for entry to year one
1 year of study at a Ukrainian University
Ukrainian Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education (Atestat) / at least 1 year of study at a Ukrainian University are not accepted for direct entry to Medicine MBBS.
We do not accept the UAE General School Certificate for entry to Year 1 of our undergraduate programmes.
You can progress to Year 1 of a number of CIty St George’s undergraduate programmes via one of our approved international foundation providers.
1 year of study at a UAE University
An average GPA of at least 3.2/4.0
An average GPA of at least 3.0/4.0
US High School Graduation Diploma
See MBBS Section below
High School Graduation Diploma with a minimum GPA of 3.0, and:
A combination of 3 AP examinations in different subjects with scores of 5,4,4, including subjects specified on the course pages.
(We may also accept alternatives to AP's.
Please see Alternatives to Advanced Placement Exams section below.)
High School Graduation Diploma with a minimum GPA of 2.5, and:
A combination of 3 AP examinations in different subjects with scores of 4,4,4, including subjects specified on the course pages.
A combination of 3 AP examinations in different subjects with scores of 4,4,3, including subjects specified on the course pages.
We may consider applicants having completed US Associate’s Degree, or one year at a US University/Community College for entry to year one of our undergraduate programmes.
(Please note: This does not include Medicine MBBS).
To be considered for entry, applicants must have attained sufficient credits in subjects that meet the course entry criteria, and with minimum overall GPA 3.0/4.0, and meet subject requirements (see below.)
AP Exam
Where applicants are unable to take AP exams, we will also consider the following in place of AP exams:
Please note this is does not include Medicine MBBS – for this we still require Aps, IB HL classes (or SAT Subject tests, if taken prior to 2021).
Please see grade equivalencies for alternatives to AP scores below:
Grade equivalencies for alternatives to AP scores
A level
AP
Honours class/College level class/Dual level classes
A+
B+
C+
IB HL Class
6
SAT subject scores
700
650
600
SAT 1 composite score (cannot be used to replace subject requirement)
1350 (minimum Evidence-Based Reading and Writing: 700, minimum Math Section: 650)
1290 (minimum Evidence-Based Reading: 620, minimum Math Section: 650)
1250 (minimum Evidence-Based Reading: 620, minimum Math Section: 620)
ACT (cannot be use to replace a subject requirements)
28
27
26
Example:
E.g.
The requirement of BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science is A-Level BBC including Biology and Chemistry at grade B This could be met by:
We will accept the US High School Graduation Diploma plus AP or equivalent for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
US High School Graduation Diploma plus AP or equivalent
A combination of 3 AP examinations in different subjects with scores of 5,5,5, including Biology and Chemistry.
(We will accept a combination of 3 SAT Subject examinations in different subjects at scores of 700 plus, including Biology and Chemistry, if taken prior to 2021, or 3 IB HL classes at 6,6,6 including Biology and Chemistry)
A US Associate’s Degree, or one year at a US University/Community College, is not accepted for entry to Medicine MBBS.
We do not accept the Zambian General Certificate of Education for entry to Year 1 of our programmes.
ZIMSEC GCE A-Level
We will accept the Zimbabwe Schools Examination Council (ZIMSEC) GCE A Level for entry to Medicine MBBS, at the following grades:
St George’s works with a number of UK foundation providers to offer an alternative pathway to a number of our undergraduate programmes.
Entry criteria has been mapped closely to align with our A-level entry criteria.
Applicants who meet our entry criteria are eligible to apply for the following programmes:
Foundation Centre
Approved Pathways
ONCAMPUS London
UFP Life Sciences
ONCAMPUS UK North
UFP Life Sciences; MUFP
ONCAMPUS Foundation programmes from other foundation centres may be considered on case-by-case basis, and provided subject-specific requirements are met.
All David Game Centres
UFP Science & Pharmacy or
UFP Medicine (including subjects specified on course page)
All CATS Global Schools centres
UFP (including subjects specified on course page)
Kaplan International Pathways
Kaplan University Foundation Certificate -Science and Engineering pathway (including subjects specified on course page)
Kaplan University Foundation Certificate - Science and Engineering pathway is accepted from all UK Kaplan Foundation centres where it is offered.
Other Kaplan foundation pathways from other UK centres may be considered on case-by-case basis, and provided subject-specific requirements are met.
All Kings Education centres
Advanced Level Foundation Programme (including subjects specified on course page); or Medical Foundation Programme
NCUK (All centres)
NCUK International Foundation Year (including subjects specified on course page)
The following International Foundation programmes from other foundation providers may be accepted on a case-by-case basis, and provided subject-specific requirements are met:
Bell University Foundation programme; Bellerby's Foundation; Dublin International Foundation College; INTO International Foundation; King’s Education Advanced Level Foundation; Queen Mary International Foundation Year; Study Group Foundation Programmes; UCL Undergraduate Preparatory Certificate for Science and Engineering (UPCSE); University of London International Foundation Programme
For entry to some of our programmes it is necessary that your Bachelor degree is equivalent to a UK 'Bachelors Honours Degree' or 'Bachelor Degree' according to UK ENIC .
If you are applying for entry to the following programmes on the basis of a non-UK Bachelor degree:
If you are unsure whether your qualification is equivalent to UK Honours equivalent, or have any other questions about Honours equivalency, please contact study@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/international-student-support/international-qualifications-for-postgraduate-study.aspx:
If you hold a qualification from a country that is not listed below, you are welcome to email study@sgul.ac.uk if you would like advice on whether we could consider your application for your preferred course.
You may also submit an application and we will assess your qualifications in line with guidance from UK ENIC.
For postgraduate courses, or graduates applying to undergraduate courses, you will be subject to UK ENIC confirming that your degree is equivalent to a UK honours degree, and meeting our English Language requirements.
View qualifications we accept to meet our English Language requirements .
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Albania :
Grade equivalency:
We would usually accept the following grade equivalencies:
UK Grade
Albania Equivalency
UK 2:1
GPA 8/10
UK 2:2
GPA 7/10
Honours Equivalency
For some programmes we require applicants to have a Bachelors which is equivalent to a UK Honours degree, as set out by UK ENIC .
For more info on this, please see here .
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Australia :
Australia Equivalency
Bachelor Degree: Distinction/ 70 or 75% (depending on grade scheme)/ B grade/ 6/7 grade
Bachelor Honours: Second Class Division A/ One/ H2A/ H2i
Bachelor Degree: Credit/ 60 or 65% (depending on grade scheme)/ C grade/ 5/7 grade
Bachelor Honours: Second Class Division B/ Two/ H2B/H2ii
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Bahrain :
Bahrain Equivalency
UK 2:1 – GPA 3.0/4.0*
*Grading systems vary between institutions; please check on transcript
UK 2:2 – GPA 2.5/4.0*
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Bangladesh :
Bangladesh Equivalency
Bachelors Degree or Professional Bachelors: CGPA of 3.5/4.0, or 70%
Masters + Bachelors: CGPA of 3.0/4.0, or 60%
Bachelors Degree or Professional Bachelors: we usually ask for a final CGPA of 3.0/4.0, or 60%
Masters + Bachelors: CGPA of 2.75/4.0, or 55%
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Brazil :
Brazil Equivalency
7/10 or 70%
6/10 or 60%
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Bulgaria :
Bulgaria Equivalency
5 out of 6 (Mnogo Dobur or good)
4 out of 6 (Dobur or good)
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Canada :
Canada Equivalency
3.0/4.0; or B; or 73% (where pass mark is 50%); or equivalent
2.5/4.0; or C+; or 67% (where pass mark is 50%); or equivalent
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from China :
China Equivalency
For some programmes we require applicants to have a B achelors which is equivalent to a UK Honours degree, as set out by UK ENIC .
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Cyprus :
Cyprus Equivalency
GPA - 7/10
GPA - 6/10
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Egypt:
Egypt Equivalency
75% or 3.0/4.0
65% or 2.5/4.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from France :
France Equivalency
12/20 – 13.99/20; or Mention bien
11/20 – 12.99/20; or Mention assez bien
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Germany :
Germany Equivalency
Bachelor/ Magister Artium/ Diplom/ Erstes Staatsexamen 2.5
Diplom (FH) awarded by a Fachhochschule 1.5
Bachelor/ Magister Artium/ Diplom/ Erstes Staatsexamen 3.0
Diplom (FH) awarded by a Fachhochschule 2.5
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Ghana :
Ghana Equivalency
Second Class (Upper Division) (60-69% or GPA 3.25 or above)
Second Class (Lower Division) (50-59% or GPA 2.50 – 3.24)
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Greece :
Greece Equivalency
GPA 6.5/10
GPA 6.0/10
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Hong Kong :
Hong Kong Equivalency
Upper Second Class Honours (or CGPA 3.0)
Second Class Honours (or CGPA 2.7)
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from India :
India Equivalency
65%
55%
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Iraq :
Iraq Equivalency
75% or higher
70-74%
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Iran :
Iran Equivalency
Bachelor: 16/20
Professional Doctorate: 15/20
Bachelor: 14/20
Professional Doctorate: 13/20
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Ireland :
Ireland Equivalency
Second Class Honours Grade I
Second Class Honours Grade II
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Italy :
Italy Equivalency
105 out of 110
94 out of 110
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Japan :
Japan Equivalency
GPA 3.0 / 4.0 or Grade B
GPA 2.3/4.0 or Grade C
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Jordan :
Jordan Equivalency
75%; or GPA 3.0/4.0
70%; or GPA 2.5/ 4.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Kenya :
Kenya Equivalency
Second Class Honours (upper division) / at least 60%/ Grade B
Second Class Honours (lower division)/ at least 50% / Grade C
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Kuwait :
Kuwait Equivalency
GPA 3.0/4.0
GPA 2.60/ 4.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Lebanon :
Lebanon Equivalency
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Libya :
Libya Equivalency
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Malaysia :
Malaysia Equivalency
Class 2 division 1; or 3.0 out of 4.0 CGPA
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Morocco :
Morocco Equivalency
14/20
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Netherlands :
Netherlands Equivalency
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from New Zealand :
New Zealand Equivalency
Bachelor Degree: B/ GPA 5/ 70%+;
Bachelor Honours Degree:  Second Class (Division 1) Honours/ GPA 6 / 75%+
Bachelor Degree: C+/ GPA 3/ 60%+;
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Nigeria :
Nigeria Equivalency
2nd Class Honours (Upper Division); or GPA 3.50 out of 5.00; or 60-69%
2nd Class Honours (Lower Division); GPA 2.50 out of 5.00; or GPA 50-59%
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Norway :
Norway Equivalency
Grade C
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Oman :
Oman Equivalency
GPA 2.5/4.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Pakistan :
Pakistan Equivalency
70% or GPA 3.5/4.0
60% or GPA 3.0/4.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Palestine :
Palestine Equivalency
80% or 3.0/4.0
70% or 2.5/4.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Poland :
Poland Equivalency
4.5 out of 5.0
4.0 out of 5.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Portugal :
Portugal Equivalency
16 out of 20
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Qatar :
Qatar Equivalency
GPA 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0
GPA 2.5/4.0 or 3.0/5.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Romania :
Romania Equivalency
GPA - 8/10
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Saudi Arabia :
Saudi Arabia Equivalency
3.0/4.0; or 4.0/5.0
2.7/4.0; or 3.2/5.0
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Serbia :
Serbia Equivalency
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Singapore :
Singapore Equivalency
II (upper) – Second Class (Upper) Honours
II (lower) - Second Class (Lower) Honours
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from South Africa :
South Africa Equivalency
70% or more (Second Class Division One*)
60-69% or more (Second Class Division One*)
For some programmes we require applicants to have a bachelors which is equivalent to a UK Honours degree, as set out by UK ENIC .
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from South Korea :
South Korea Equivalency
3.3/4.3 or 3.5/4.5 or equivalent
2.8/4.3 or 3.0/4.5 or equivalent
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Spain :
Spain Equivalency
7.5 out of 10 or 2.25 out of 4
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Sri Lanka :
General Bachelor (3 years) may be considered if 1st class degree in a relevant subject is achieved.
Sri Lanka Equivalency
GPA 3.3/4.0 or B+ or 60%; Second Upper
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Sweden :
Sweden Equivalency
Majority of subjects VG (väl godkänd); Pass with distinction
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Switzerland :
Switzerland Equivalency
5 out of 6; or 8 out of 10
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Syria :
Syria Equivalency
70% or ‘Very Good’
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Taiwan :
Taiwan Equivalency
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Tanzania :
Tanzania Equivalency
Upper Second or GPA 3.5/5.0 or higher
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Turkey :
Turkey Equivalency
GPA 2.75/4.0*
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from UAE :
UAE Equivalency
3.0 /4.0 or equivalent
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from Uganda :
Uganda Equivalency
GPA 4.0/5.0 or B+ (Class II Upper/ Honours upper)
To apply for one of our programmes, we will consider the following qualifications from USA :
USA Equivalency

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/finance-advice/finance-information-for-international-students:
At St George's, University of London we have a truly diverse and global mix of students.
If your fee status is classed as overseas, you will not be able to apply for a student loan from the UK government.
Local British Council offices might be able to supply information in relation to funding opportunities.
The Education UK website can provide more information.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs also provides advice on fees, fees status, funding and student support for international students.
Find out more about federal and private loans for studying at St George's.
Information about the financial aid offered by the Federal and Provincial Governments for studying at St George's.
Information and guides on planning the funding for your postgraduate studies.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/finance-advice/finance-information-for-international-students/students-from-the-usa:
If you're from the US and you are interested in studying at St George's, find out more about federal and private loans.
For programme eligibility for Federal Student Aid please contact usfederalaid@sgul.ac.uk .
Please note that to be eligible to borrow Federal Student Aid / Direct Loans, it is a requirement that students from the US have a high school diploma (or equivalent).
If you will be using Post 9/11 GI Bill or any other funding from the Department of Veterans' Affairs please contact the student finance and policy officer as soon as possible by emailing usfederalaid@sgul.ac.uk .
We need to request individual programme approval for each student which can take several months.
Fill in a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) application via the Federal Student Aid website.
The St George's, University of London school code is G22666.
This will be required when filling in the FAFSA application.
Check your Student Aid Report (SAR).
Once Federal Student Aid have processed your information, you will be emailed a copy of your SAR.
Please review the information carefully and ensure that it includes an estimated family contribution and the details of any previous loans.
If any information is missing or there are comments stating further information is required, you will need to make corrections and re-submit your application.
If there is a C shown next to the estimated family contribution, further information will be required.
Check the comments codes and make any necessary corrections.
In some cases we may need to ask you to provide documentary evidence (such as proof of US citizenship).
Please send an electronic copy of your SAR to usfederalaid@sgul.ac.uk .
If you have been offered a place on a course at St George's and have firmly accepted the offer then once your SAR has been received we will send you:
a calculated cost of attendance
details of the loans for which you are eligible and
instructions on what you need to do next.
Fixed, maximum value; no interest charged while in school
Fixed, maximum value; interest charged while in school
Max value set by St George's in the calculated cost of attendance; interest charged while in school
The maximum amount of subsidised and unsubsidised loans is as follows.
$3,500
$2,000
$5,500
2
$4,500
$6,500
3 and later
$7,500
$9,500
$6,000
$10,500
$7,000
$12,500
All years
$20,500
The lifetime aggregates remain $65,500.00 (subsidised) and $138,500.00 (combined subsidised and unsubsidised).
You may not borrow more than this total amount.
Federal Direct Parent and Grad PLUS Loans may be used as supplemental funding when subsidised and unsubsidised loan maximums are reached.
As always, the total amount you may borrow in student loans for any academic year is limited to your annual calculated cost of attendance minus all other sources of funding.
Confirm the amount you wish to borrow and complete the loan application/s and entrance counselling and credit check (for PLUS loans).
Once you have confirmed the amount of each type of loan you wish us to originate, you also need to forward the following:
a Master Promissory Note for Direct Subsidised/Unsubsidised Loans
a screenshot confirming you have completed Entrance Counselling (even if you have done it in a previous year – it is good practice to do this every year as it reminds you of your responsibilities in the Direct Loan Scheme)
a PLUS Master Promissory Note and screen shot of the credit check acceptance if you will be using a PLUS Loan
You do all of this online at the Federal Student Aid, Student Loans website .
You sign into this site using the same PIN that you used to sign your FAFSA.
Please note that If you do not include everything required we will not be unable to originate your loans.
When you have completed the above steps, we will mail you a loan certificate.
We strongly advise that you complete your application ASAP in order to ensure that your loan certificate can be mailed in time for you to apply for a visa to study in the UK.
Undergraduate and postgraduate students will receive three disbursements (one per term).
From each disbursement we will deduct an amount towards your tuition fees and the remainder will be forwarded to you.
You will need to open a UK bank account to avoid having to pay two foreign exchange charges.
While in receipt of Federal loan funds for the loan period outlined on your loan application, you are required to be enrolled on your programme of study and to maintain satisfactory academic progress.
If you fail to meet the required standard in any period, you will be placed on 'Financial Aid Probation' for a period of one semester, or until the next available opportunity to undertake these assessments.
If after this period you do not reach the satisfactory academic standard, your eligibility for Federal loans (Stafford and Plus loans) may be terminated.
The student finance and policy officer would confirm any probation or termination of eligibility with the individual student should this situation arise.
View further details of St George’s, University of London's Satisfactory Academic Progress policy .
You should inform the Student Finance & Policy Officer ( usfederalaid@sgul.ac.uk ) if you decide to withdraw or interrupt/take leave of absence from your course.
The University is required by Federal Law to start a process that recalculates your financial aid eligibility based on your actual period of attendance and return any unearned tuition and fees paid to the institution.
This process is called Return to Title IV (R2T4).
View further details of St Georges, University of London’s Return of Title IV (R2T4) Policy.
Periods of interruption/Leave of absence are not eligible for US loan funding and will be reported to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS).For further advice and guidance on the US loans procedure for withdrawals/interruptions/leave of absence, please contact usfederalaid@sgul.ac.uk .
The University's tuition fee policy is applied independently of the R2T4 policy described above.
Please refer to the following link: Tuition Fee Policy
Students who voluntarily wish to leave St Georges, University of London permanently, should contact their course administrator in the first instance, for further guidance on procedure.
It is a legal requirement that all students who have received Federal loan(s) and have graduated or withdrawn from their programme of study complete exit counselling.
This is done through Federal Student Aid, Student Loans website .
Please go to the site and follow the instructions for Stafford Loan and /or PLUS Loan exit counselling.
You may want to apply for a private loan to cover the cost of education not met by Federal Loans.
If you are over 24 and studying an undergraduate course, PLUS loans are not available so private loans may be your only other option.
Private loans are not part of the Direct Loan scheme and not covered by Federal Student Aid Regulations.
We are happy to work with any lender who you choose to use who will lend to US students who study internationally.
However, since the ending of the Federal Family Education Loan Program loan scheme, many of the lenders have withdrawn from the student loan market, especially for those US students who wish to study overseas.
The Smart Option Student Loan is a private, credit-based loan for undergraduate and graduate students.
It is designed to reduce the overall loan costs and help shorten the amount of time it takes to pay off the loan, the Smart Option Student Loan features interest-only payments while in school and repayment terms based upon the cumulative outstanding Sallie Mae-serviced private student loan balances and the borrower's academic grade level.
The Smart Option Student Loan is available through Global Education Management Services .
It is your responsibility to repay your loan.
If in doubt about the terms of your loan, please contact your loan servicer.
Information on the University’s completion and transfer out rates is available from the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
For the latest rates please refer to the links below:
Higher Education Statistics Agency
HESA Non- Continuation Rates
Students found guilty within the legal jurisdiction of the UK during their period of study will lose their eligibility for Federal Loans.
For more information, please refer to the links below:
Student Code of Conduct
Alcohol, Drug and Substance Misuse Policy
The Student Finance team provides information and support on a wide variety of funding sources.
To arrange an appointment, please email:
US Student Loans – usfederalaid@agul.ac.uk
Student Funding and other financial support – studentfinance@sgul.ac.uk
The St George's, University of London (SGUL) Fire Safety Policy and associated fire safety procedures draw on the Regulatory Reform (Fire safety) Order 2005, the Fire Safety Act 2021, The Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations 2002.
The Dangerous Substances and Explosive Atmospheres Regulations 2002 and the primary legislation such as the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 to maintain fire precaution compliance and as representing best practice.
For further information and policy, please visit our fire safety policy page .
Please refer to the following links on the university website:
Freedom of Information
Data Protection
Medicine (MBBS5)
Medicine – Graduate Entry (MBBS4)
In order to prohibit a conflict of interest with the responsibilities of an agent with respect to Private Educational Loans, staff at the University with the responsibility for Federal an Private Educational Loans from the USA are prohibited from the following:
Revenue sharing arrangements with lenders
Receiving gifts from a lender or loan servicer
Obtaining financial benefits from lenders or loan servicers
Providing a preferred list of lenders
Offers of funds for private lenders
The University does not have a preferred Lenders List but will, where possible, work with whichever private lender a prospective borrower decides to use.
Students should be aware that the majority of private lenders choose not to offer loans when borrowers are studying outside the USA.
This is why, on our US Loans information the only loans we list as being accessible are the US Federal Direct Stafford and PLUS loans or private loans such as Sallie Mae.
The University is approved by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) and The Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) to deliver education to the required standards.
The University is responsible for its academic standards and the quality of the student learning experience.
It is committed to reflecting on and systematically reviewing its provision and acting to enhance it.
The Quality Framework supports the management of academic standards and the student experience across the University’s academic provision and student services and aligns with external body requirements.
Information about any required and recommended textbooks for your course will be provided to you by your programme team.
Should you require specific information about textbooks, please contact the relevant programme team for advice.
You may also wish to consult the University Library Services
Accommodation information
Disability Support
Spiritual Support
Cost of Living hub
We realise that the student loan process can be confusing.
If you require further clarification, please do not hesitate to email us.
Email: usfederalaid@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/finance-advice/finance-information-for-international-students/students-from-canada:
The Federal and Provincial Governments offer financial aid to Canadians studying at St George's, University of London.
St George's institutional code is PUIQ (although some provinces/territories may use a different code).
Canadian loans are means-tested, meaning you must demonstrate financial need in order to qualify for financial aid.
Generally, students interested in applying for a loan must do so through their provincial/territorial student assistance office or website.
When you apply for a loan, you're considered for funding by both the Provincial and Federal Government, meaning you only have to apply once for funding for the year.
While federal loans are handled through a lender called the National Student Loans Service Centre , provincial loans are handled through the provincial governments and student aid branches.
Visit Campus Access for a comprehensive overview of the process
Your provincial Student Finance Department will process most of your loans (not St George's).
However, you may require verification of your student status by the University.
We also have to confirm that you've been accepted onto a course or are already enrolled with us before any financial aid will be disbursed to you.
Canadian taxpayers who are studying full-time for a degree at St George’s, University of London are eligible to claim the appropriate percentage of tuition fees paid (subject to certain restrictions) as a tax credit.
Also, the parent/guardian of such a student is eligible to claim the transferred portion of tuition fees allowed under the Canadian Income Tax Act.
Students who wish to make such a claim need to complete form TL11A E and also ensure that they have their receipts bearing the name of the University.
Once completed, please hand the form into the Student Centre so that the University can certify the details.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/how-to-apply/multiple-mini-interview-mmis:
An MMI consists of six interview questions, which take four minutes each.
The interviewers sit at ‘stations’ and the interviewees move around them.
Each ‘station’ may involve answering a question, completing a practical task, or participating in a role play, for example, dealing with a challenging situation.
Each question is marked separately and independently.
We believe that MMIs give fairer and more accurate results than a traditional interview for selecting medicine and healthcare students.
This approach helps us better assess qualities that make a good healthcare professional, such as empathy and respect, rather than which applicant is strongest at answering standard interview questions.
Also, if you feel one question doesn’t go very well, you can move on to the next one knowing a different interviewer will be assessing you.
This will vary from course to course, but the interviewers will ask questions that help them assess the following:
why you want to follow this profession
what skills you have that demonstrate that you will be a good healthcare professional and a good student
whether you are committed to quality of care
whether you are up to date with research and aware of government policies on healthcare
whether you are respectful and treat people with dignity
whether you are committed to improving the lives of others
how good you are at teamwork.
In the past, students have been asked questions such as the following.
Explain, without gesture or mime, how to tie a shoelace
Explain to someone with a learning disability how to tell the time using an analogue clock
Travelling on the underground in London, one of your friends becomes separated from the group and it is their first time in London.
Explain your plan of action.
You were cat-sitting for your neighbour while they were on holidays and the cat ran away.
Explain how you would break the news to your neighbour and how you would comfort them.
Often there is no right or wrong answer – the interviewers are assessing your ability to explain your thinking.
Don’t worry if you change your mind half way through a question – this shows that you can think on your feet and are properly considering your answer.
When preparing for your MMI, it might be helpful to consider the following topics.
Current issues affecting the profession
NHS politics.
Funding.
7-day NHS.
NHS long-term plan.
Past and present areas of exploration/research
Breakthrough treatments, vaccinations and other developments.
Key events in the history of medicine and healthcare at St George’s (for example Edward Jenner’s smallpox vaccine, or John Hunter’s role in the development of modern surgery.
Reflect on what you saw and learnt about the profession and your own strengths and weaknesses in relation to key skills.
Focus on the skills and qualities you can offer, such as teamwork, leadership and communication skills, and how you can demonstrate these.
Do
Make sure you thoroughly read information you are sent about the MMI – plan your route to the university in advance and leave plenty of time on the day, in case of delays.
Be polite and friendly but professional.
Take your time to read the problem and clearly understand what is being asked.
Think about your answer before you start giving it.
There are no trick questions, but it helps to think about what you are going to say before you say it.
Give multiple examples to illustrate your points.
Make sure you include your personal experience in your answers, for example, work experience.
Prepare thoroughly.
Many universities will want to know why you want to study with them in particular.
And they will all want you to demonstrate that you have a good idea of what it’s like to work in your chosen profession.
Keep up to date – often questions will reflect a current news story.
Don’t
Don’t panic.
If you run out of things to say, take a moment to collect your thoughts and see if you have anything relevant to add.
If you think you’ve done badly on a particular station, put it out of your mind and move to the next interview with confidence.
Don’t memorise a script – remember to answer the question you are being asked and try not to go off topic.
If you think you have gone off-track you can ask the interviewer to repeat the question.
Don’t try too hard to make an impression or stand out.
You will be assessed on your friendly approach and professional responses.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/how-to-apply/make-your-application-stand-out:
If you are thinking about applying to an undergraduate course at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus) for 2025 or 2026 entry, there’s plenty you can be doing now to prepare a competitive application.
We are looking for applicants who can demonstrate passion, interest and enthusiasm for their chosen course.
There are many ways that you can demonstrate that you have the relevant attributes, and the guidance below is designed to help you in your preparations.
We understand the challenges for our prospective applicants for medicine and allied health courses trying to gain work experience at this time, particularly in clinical settings.
In response to the government’s social distancing guidelines, which have a significant impact on all areas of life, we have chosen to relax our work experience requirements for prospective applicants for our courses which would normally require these for 2025 and 2026 entry.
Despite the relaxed requirements, we still require our applicants to have an understanding of the realities of working as a healthcare professional and to show they have the necessary skills and attributes for their chosen career.
Online resources can give you valuable insight into working in the healthcare sector and outline the wide range of careers and courses available.
Working in Health YouTube Channel
NHS Health Careers role profile for therapeutic radiographers (radiotherapists) .
Everyone who works in the NHS is expected to demonstrate the values of the NHS Constitution .
If you’re applying for any course at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences (Tooting campus), we’ll expect you to understand these values too.
The NHS Long Term Plan was released in January 2019 and sets out priorities for healthcare in the UK over the next 10 years.
Top tip!
Make sure you think about real-life examples you can use in your personal statement and during interviews to demonstrate the NHS Values.
Be prepared to share your views on some of the current challenges facing the NHS, not just relating to Covid-19 but other issues too, such as the impact of Brexit, meeting the needs of an ageing population and the recent increases in demand for mental health services.
Anything you can do to learn more about what studying a healthcare course or embarking on a career in healthcare is like is very valuable to you as you prepare your application.
There are plenty of ways you can do this and many of the suggestions below are things you could mention in your personal statement or discuss at interviews.
You can keep up-to-date with health research reading articles in open access journals or on news websites, such as BBC Health or the British Medical Journal .
There are many interesting podcasts which cover topical issues in healthcare; research organisations like the Royal Society of Medicine , the BBC Health and Wellbeing website and the King’s Fund .
You can listen to some of our academics from City St George’s sharing their research through our online Spotlight on Science videos .
And why not read more about the amazing real-life impacts of health research taking place at City St George’s in our Transformation Stories online ?
Look into Future Learn , which offers more than 170 medicine and healthcare e-learning courses on its website.
The courses are developed by leading universities and cultural institutions from around the world, including our lecturers at City St George’s.
Finally, these wider reading suggestions from Causeway Education cover some useful resources related to a range of healthcare courses.
Try to look at a few areas of interest in-depth, rather than rushing to read as much as you possibly can.
Whilst Covid-19 is, understandably, dominating the news at the moment, do try to find articles that cover a range of topics and that are related to your own personal interests in health.
Volunteering is a great way to demonstrate some of the key values and attributes we look for in potential healthcare professionals.
If you have volunteered in a caring or community-based role (such as helping younger children in school, with sports or at an after-school club), with vulnerable groups of people (such as elderly people or disabled people), or by helping with a local charity based in your community, make sure you think about the skills you developed whilst you volunteered.
It will be very valuable to you if you are able to articulate what you learned by volunteering in your personal statement or during an interview.
You may be able to find some opportunities during the Covid-19 pandemic to take part in community-related roles or activities that will help you to practice and demonstrate attributes that are important in a healthcare professional, such as compassion and empathy.
You could consider volunteering for a local charity, perhaps remotely, or finding out about support groups in your local area helping to fundraise, deliver resources to local hospitals or social care settings, or provide essentials to vulnerable people.
Please ensure you adhere to government guidelines about social distancing if you do find an opportunity to volunteer.
If you need inspiration, the #iwill website has some good ideas you may find useful if you want to find volunteering opportunities.
It is a good idea to reflect on the following and make notes that will help you in the future.
During the application process you aren’t limited to talking about work experience in a clinical or caring setting.
There are many other experiences which you may already have had which can help you give  examples which  illustrate the skills you have and show why you would make a good healthcare student.
Here are a few ideas to get you started.
If you have any further questions, please contact our Course Enquiries Team .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/fees-and-funding/student-loans:
A note for EU students commencing study in or after academic year 2021/22
EU, other EEA and Swiss national students who are starting their studies in the UK from academic year 2021/22 should be aware that there have been important changes to the national tuition fee regulations and student finance eligibility criteria.
Many EU students are no longer eligible for home fee status or student finance, although there will be some exceptions.
Please visit the UK Government website for further details.
All EU, EEA and Swiss national students who are considering starting a course in the UK in or after academic year 2021/22 are advised to check their eligibility with Student Finance England as soon as possible and well in advance of commencing study.
Government loans are available to support your full-time studies here at St George’s, University of London.
Repayment is based on what you earn, not what you owe, and you don’t start repaying your undergraduate student loans until after you leave the course and your income is over the threshold amount for your repayment plan .
The threshold amounts are subject to change.
Available to English and some EU students.
If you live in Northern Ireland , Scotland or Wales please visit your local student finance website for information about government loans you may be eligible for.
Eligible undergraduate students can apply for a tuition fee loan to cover the full cost of their tuition fees for each year of study (partial tuition fee loans are available for the 4-year graduate entry Medicine course).
Tuition fee loan payments are made directly to the university.
Only repayable after you leave the course and are earning over the relevant threshold.
Repayments will be calculated at 9% of your income over the threshold.
Eligible undergraduate students can apply for a maintenance loan for each year of study to help with living costs such as accommodation, bills, food and travel.
The amount you can borrow depends on your household income and whether you are living with parents or outside of the parental home during term time.
Maintenance loan payments are made to the student in three termly instalments.
If you have both the Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loan these will be repayable as a single loan.
Student loans are issued by the Student Loans Company on behalf of the government – they are not commercial loans.
Interest is charged on a student loan from the date you receive the first payment to the date you pay off the balance in full.
Any outstanding balance is written off after a repayment term of 40 years (this repayment term is subject to change).
For more information about student loans visit the Student Finance website .
You can also use the student finance calculator to get an estimate of your entitlement.
If you normally live in Northern Ireland , Scotland or Wales please visit your local student finance website for information about any government loans you may be eligible for.
Depending on your personal circumstances, additional help may also be available if you have:
For more information about student finance including loans, grants, extra help, eligibility and repayments, visit gov.uk/student-finance and www.gov.uk/repaying-your-student-loan .
A handy guide to repaying your tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/fees-and-funding/grants-and-bursaries:
If you are a student from England, there are grants available from the Government and St George’s, University of London to help support your living and course costs.
Eligibility depends on your personal circumstances and household income.
Grants and bursaries do not need to be paid back.
The St George’s Opportunity Fund Grant is our bursary for students who are ordinarily resident in England.
By offering this extra funding we aim to support students from lower income backgrounds to access and progress on their first Higher Education course.
Eligible students will receive this support from St George’s in addition to their student finance.
Please note that previous study at Higher Education level may affect entitlement.
Students will be assessed for the St George’s Opportunity Fund Grant using the information given on their Student Finance England application.
There is no separate application form to complete.
Please ensure that you (and your parent(s)/partner/spouse, if applicable) give permission on the student finance application for the household income details to be shared with the University.
Student Finance England (SFE) make the bursary payments to eligible students on behalf of the University.
A notification of entitlement letter will be sent via email and will appear on eligible students’ SFE online accounts later in the autumn term once all students are registered and enrolled.
St George’s appreciates that, for religious or cultural reasons, some students may not be in a position to take out a student loan on which interest is payable.
In order to be considered for the St George’s Opportunity Fund Grant, all students will need to make an application to Student Finance England for a financial assessment.
If you do not wish to take out the tuition fee or maintenance loan please specify zero on the Loan Request part of the application.
Care leaver students are those who have been looked after by a Local Authority before coming to University.
Care leavers in full-time education usually have a Local Authority Personal Adviser until the age of 25.
Care leaver students are a priority group for the St George’s Opportunity Fund Grant and, subject to meeting the usual eligibility criteria, will receive the maximum award for their year of study regardless of their household income.
If you are a care leaver please email us at studentfinance@sgul.ac.uk to make us aware of your circumstances and we will get in touch to discuss further support and advice available to you at St George’s.
This table below shows bursary amounts for the 2024/25 academic year:
£0 -£16,000
£1,700
£1,000
£16,001 -£25,000
£1,250
£500
£25,001 -£30,000
£750
If your course is supported by Student Finance England and you have dependants, you may be eligible for additional grants while you study.
All grants for dependants are income assessed so the household income will affect eligibility and entitlement.
Click each heading below to find out more about the different types of support available.
Full-time higher education students using a registered childcare provider can apply for a Childcare Grant of:
The grant helps with childcare costs for children under 15 , or under 17 if they have special educational needs , and can meet up to 85% of the actual cost.
Full-time students with children can apply for a Parents' Learning Allowance of up to £1,963 to help with their learning costs.
Full-time students with an adult who depends on them financially can apply for an Adult Dependants’ Grant of up to £3,438 .
You can apply for a non-means tested Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) if you are studying a Higher Education course, usually live in England and have a:
DSAs can help you pay the extra costs you may have because of your disability.
DSAs don’t have to be repaid.
The support you get depends on your individual needs and not on household income.
Our Medicine programmes are partially funded by NHS Student Bursaries.
Medicine MBBS (5- year) students can apply for NHS support from their fifth year of study.
Medicine MBBS (4- year graduate entry) students can apply for NHS support from their second year of study.
For years two, three and four of the MBBS4 course the tuition fee funding is split between NHS Student Bursaries and Student Finance England.
For the relevant year(s) of study, Medicine students can apply to NHS Student Bursaries for a partial/full tuition fee grant plus a non-income assessed £1,000 grant for living costs and an income assessed bursary for living costs.
NHS Student Bursaries also offer additional support to students who have a disability and to students with dependants.
Please visit our NHS bursary page and the NHS Student Bursaries website for more details.
If you normally live in Northern Ireland , Scotland or Wales , please visit your local student finance website for information about any government grants you may be eligible for.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/fees-and-funding/nhs-funded-degrees:
Our Medicine MBBS (5 year) and Medicine MBBS (4 year graduate entry) programmes are supported by both Student Finance England (SFE) and NHS Student Bursaries.
This means that medical students may not have to pay tuition fees for some year(s) of study at St George’s.
The funding available depends on the course studied and all students are advised to check their eligibility with NHS Student Bursaries .
The tables in the following sections summarise the financial support currently available to eligible Medicine MBBS 4-year and 5-year students in each year of study.
All amounts relate to students who ordinarily live in England .
Amounts may be subject to change so please also check each organisations' website for current details.
If you normally live in Northern Ireland , Scotland or Wales , please visit your local student finance website for information about any government support you may be eligible for.
All students need to reapply for their funding every academic year .
Click the course name below to reveal the financial support available for eligible students on each course.
1 to 4
SFE only
SFE tuition fee loan (£9,250)
(Please note that graduate students on the 5-year MBBS course are not eligible for the tuition fee loan and will need to self-fund the first 4 years' tuition fees)
5 (and 6 if intercalates)
NHS Student Bursaries and SFE
Student self-funds £3,465
SFE partial tuition fee loan (£5,785)
2 to 4
NHS partial tuition fee grant (£3,715)
SFE partial tuition fee loan (£5,535)
MBBS students apply to NHS Student Bursaries in the Spring/Summer prior to the relevant year(s) of study.
Eligible students will receive the non-income assessed £1,000 grant and income assessed bursary in 3 termly instalments to their nominated personal bank account.
The NHS tuition fee grant will be paid directly to the university.
Extra non-repayable financial help is available from NHS Student Bursaries if you:
Assistance with additional clinical placement expenses is also available to students who are eligible for the income assessed NHS bursary.
Medicine MBBS students can also apply to Student Finance England for a non-income assessed reduced rate maintenance loan for each NHS-funded year of study.
The 2024/25 annual rates are:
Maintenance loan payments are made directly to students in 3 termly instalments .
Please visit the NHS Student Bursaries website to check your eligibility and for further details.
Medicine MBBS 5-year students can apply to Student Finance England (SFE) for a full tuition fee loan for each non-NHS funded year of study (years 1 to 4).
Graduates on the MBBS5 programme will not be eligible for the SFE tuition fee loan and will need to self-fund the tuition fees for the first four years of the course.
Medicine MBBS 4-year graduate entry students are required to self-fund the first £3,465 of the first year’s tuition fee.
A tuition fee loan of £5,785 is available from Student Finance England for the remainder.
These amounts may be subject to change so please also check the relevant organisation's website for up to date details.
All eligible MBBS students in a non-NHS funded year of study can apply to Student Finance England for an income assessed maintenance loan.
Grants for dependants and Disabled Students’ Allowance are also available to eligible students.
Medicine MBBS 5-year students in non-NHS funded years of study may also be considered for our university bursary, the St George’s Opportunity Fund Grant .
This bursary is available to SFE-funded students who are undertaking their first degree.
Other previous study may also affect entitlement.
Please visit our student loans and grants and bursaries pages for more information.
From 1 August 2017 the student loans system replaced NHS Student Bursaries for Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professional courses.
This affected the following courses at St George's:
Usually students with an equivalent level qualification are not eligible for student finance for a subsequent degree course, however an exception to this rule applies to the above programmes.
Students undertaking these courses as a second undergraduate degree can apply for the standard student finance package, just like students studying for a first degree.
Under the student finance system students can apply for loans to support their tuition fee and living costs.
The income assessed maintenance loan is calculated using the course term dates, so offers additional support to students on courses that have a longer than average academic year.
Students can also apply for income assessed grants for dependants, for example Childcare Grant, Adult Dependants Grant and Parents’ Learning Allowance, if applicable.
Non-income assessed Disabled Students’ Allowance is also available.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/health-and-wellbeing/mental-health/counselling-service:
Counselling provides a non-judgemental, confidential setting in which to think about things in your own way.
The aim is to help you gain perspective and a better understanding of your situation, to enable you to develop a fuller, more rewarding life, and to learn more effective ways of dealing with potential problems in the future.
Counselling is a confidential service which is separate from teaching and assessment and student records.
Many students who have attended the service say it helped them in their personal life, enabled them to deal better with stress and helped them to study more effectively.
Coming to university is a time of change.
Life at university can be stressful.
You don’t have to suffer alone in silence.
Counselling can help.
Studying or working within the health professions can be both rewarding and difficult.
At times, personal and emotional problems can get in the way of concentration and make it difficult to study effectively.
A short period of counselling can be very helpful in finding different perspectives and ways of managing problems.
Clients of the service are encouraged to talk about any emotional or practical difficulties they are facing.
Early consultation can prevent difficulties developing into unmanageable problems.
Seeking counselling is an important step but no problem should be considered too small to be brought to the counselling service.
We offer a time-limited counselling service available to all undergraduates and postgraduates studying at St George’s.
The service is also available to university staff.
It is free and confidential.
None of the counsellors discriminate on the grounds of sexuality, race nor religion.
They aim at all times to be impartial and non-judgemental.
Counselling can help you find different perspectives to help manage relationships with friends and family, worries about work and examinations, worries about yourself—in fact anything that causes you stress.
“I’m so grateful this service is available.
It guided me through a difficult time and ultimately meant that I remained in higher education and completed my degree” — Student client
Level 2, Hunter Wing.
Turn left from lifts past Pret-a-Manger and continue to the end of the corridor where you will find counselling rooms on your left.
Appointments outside normal working hours are available most days.
Please let us know if you have any issues with registering by emailing us at counselling@sgul.ac.uk .
Please note you need to complete the online form in one attempt, so have GP details etc to hand.
If you don't know the answer to any question, please write 'don't know' or 'prefer not to answer' in the relevant box.
Open Hours (one-to-one drop-in sessions) are available at 12 noon Monday to Friday.
These sessions are for students who do not already have an allocated counsellor and you do not need to book.
Please come to the Counselling Service on Hunter Level 2, a few minutes before 12pm.
It would also be helpful if you could register before you come.
The counselling service is confidential and separate from teaching and assessment.
We do not share any information without your consent, including whether you are coming for counselling.
The only exceptions to this are if we are seriously worried about safety (yours or someone else’s).
At the University Counselling Service, we strive to be anti-racist.
This means that, in addition to having cultural competence, our counsellors acknowledge the reality of racism and racist oppression in our society, and recognise the impact of racism on mental health.
We are working to ensure that every student, including students of colour, feels welcome in our service.
We will do our best to listen openly and non defensively, and to provide emotional and psychological support.
Join one of our Learning Mindfulness sessions for staff and students

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/widening-participation/support-for-prospective-applicants/support-for-care-leavers:
Considering applying to City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences?
We offer flexible and personalised campus visits for prospective care leaver students.
These visits aim to answer any questions you may have, show you around the university and offer you a deeper insight to your course of interest and university life.
If you would like to book a visit please email us , please feel free to come on your own, with your support worker or bring along a friend!
City St George's School of Health & Medical Sciences has a comprehensive Contextual Admissions policy, and Care Leavers are eligible for pre-application support, contextual offers and post-application support.
Full information is available on our Contextual Admissions webpage.
Care leavers have a named contact at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences.
This makes things simpler for you, especially when you are just starting a course, and assists us in coordinating your financial and pastoral support.
We can also let you know about external organisations who can help you during your studies.
Your named contact can also help with general information and can point you in the direction of any academic advice or support you might need once you are at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences.
All students are also assigned a personal tutor who can help with this.
Our Student Welfare Officer is currently our point of contact for care leavers.
You can contact the Student Welfare Ofice at welfare@sgul.ac.uk .
Care leavers are often designated as ‘independent students’ by Student Finance .
This means that if you are eligible for student finance and don’t live with a partner or spouse you will usually be entitled to the maximum income assessed support.
If you are unsure about anything to do with your student funding, please don’t hesitate to contact our Student Funding Adviser, Helen Williams, at studentfinance@sgul.ac.uk .
Care leavers who are undertaking their first undergraduate course can also be considered for the Opportunity Fund Grant (our bursary).
Care leavers are also a priority group for our Access to Learning Fund (hardship fund for home students) and may be eligible for an additional £1,000 grant from this Fund.
You can apply to to the ALF once you are fully registered and enrolled on your course.
Care leavers studying an undergraduate course are given priority for housing in the City St George’s Tooting campus Horton Halls of Residence and are eligible for year-round 365 day accommodation contracts if they need them.
It may also be possible to accommodate postgraduate care leaver students.
You can find further information and take a virtual tour of Horton Halls on our accommodation webpages .
A team of Resident Advisers live at Horton Halls and are available outside of usual office hours to provide support and to answer any questions you might have.
The Student Union’s Counselling Service provides a non-judgemental, confidential setting in which to work things through in your own way.
It is free of charge and available to all City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The Counselling Service is confidential and is separate from teaching and assessment processes.
You can find further details on the Counselling Service’s webpages .
The Academic Success Centre team provide one-to-one support with a range of study issues, including effective study strategies, writing academic assignments and English language help.
They offer appointments in person and online.
Enrolled students can visit the ASC Canvas page for more details, including opening hours and how to book an appointment.
Once you are enrolled you might wish to consider making an application to be a Student Ambassador .
This is a paid role where you will represent City St George’s in the community, and meet other students and staff.
For more details please contact the Student Ambassador Scheme  at ambassadors@sgul.ac.uk .
Please mention in your email that you are a care leaver.
All students are encouraged to engage with Careers Support at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences.
The Careers Adviser is available to support you at all stages of your career thinking: from planning your next steps, exploring opportunities, building and using your network, to making applications and impressing at interview.
They offer one-to-one support in person and by phone, plus online information, and skills workshops delivered as part of your course.
Once you are enrolled with us, you can book appointments and access information online .
For any other questions about careers support, please email careers@sgul.ac.uk
For more details about other support services please visit the Student Support page .
Enrolled students can visit the Student Life Centre .
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to reach out to welfare@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/medicine:
Five years, full time (or six with Intercalated BSc)
15 October 2025 (2026 Entry)
A100, institution code S49
September 2026
Clinically focused and patient-centred, our five-year undergraduate degree will equip you with essential knowledge, understanding, skills and attitudes to practice medicine competently and professionally.
You will gain a unique opportunity to study in a multidisciplinary clinical setting, together with students across the full range of allied healthcare professions, and acquire the scientific and clinical expertise to keep abreast of the changes in diagnostic and therapeutic medicine required for our rapidly changing societies.
Your hands-on learning starts with practical classes in our pathology labs, and anatomy suite, alongside GP and community visits.
Over the course of studies, you’ll participate in a comprehensive series of clinical placements in medicine, surgery, general practice, senior health, paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, psychiatry and diagnostics such as radiology, as well as other specialities.
On successful completion, you’ll be granted the primary medical qualification – the Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) – eligible to register with the General Medical Council (GMC) and begin its Foundation Programme.
City St George’s, University of London Tooting campus is co- located with one of the largest teaching hospitals in the UK, St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, which is both on the clinical frontline for a diverse local community and a centre of excellence for specialist conditions.
You’ll study in a clinical setting with like-minded individuals, mixing with the many different healthcare professionals you will go on to work alongside throughout your career.
Read more information about our courses and university services terms and conditions .
Read the MBBS curriculum brochure (PDF) to find out more about what the course contains.
If you're looking to start your studies in 2025 or beyond, sign up for our free intro email series by clicking the button below.
A career in medicine is a calling like no other: the chance to harness science and make a real difference, often saving people’s lives.
Perhaps you are drawn to the many practical and intellectual challenges this well respected and rewarding profession offers, where no day is ever the same.
Whatever your motivations, our Medicine degree offers a unique opportunity to study in a multidisciplinary clinical setting together with students across the full range of healthcare professions, building your appreciation of what it means to work as part of a team.
Our transformative education blends academic and practical clinical skills training with on-the-job placement learning.
This provides the knowledge, understanding, skills and professional competencies to help you become a confident, resilient doctor.
Students tell us that this early patient contact and rotation across a comprehensive range of medical services and specialities which begins in the first year is what makes our course stand out from the rest.
We take pride in being clinically and patient-focused with a strong emphasis on communicating with patients from a range of backgrounds so that, on graduation, you provide excellent, compassionate care, and are ready to work with colleagues and equipped to adapt to rapidly changing science and society.
As well as the option for teaching, research and management, medicine offers a wide choice of careers with over 60 different specialities – from general practice, surgery, emergency or intensive care medicine, to focused practice in areas such as ears, nose and throat surgery (ENT) and ophthalmology.
That we are the only UK university based on a hospital site ensures your experience is diverse and broad, so you can identify where your passions truly lie.
St George’s Hospital is the largest healthcare provider in southwest London, providing acute hospital services, specialist care and community services to patients of all ages, nationalities and ethnicities.
Our degree also offers two opportunities to undertake student-selected components (SSC) of study on areas of interest to you, spending a few weeks exploring a topic of your choice in-depth, which could be basic science, a clinical or service improvement project or a humanities module.
You can also apply competitively to intercalate with us or an alternative institution, inserting an additional year of study to obtain an iBSc or even a master’s degree in a very wide variety of related subjects.
If you are interested in applying for 2026 entry, join us to learn more about our undergraduate and graduate-entry Medicine MBBS course.
“At St George's, you really benefit from problem-based learning in your transition year.
I found it a perfect complement to the lectures and clinical teaching.
It’s very student-led, enabling us to discuss and make decisions about managing our patient which, as students, helps us to work in a team and think like a doctor.
”
- Jozel
Medicine (Graduate Entry MBBS)
Home (UK) tuition fees
Academic year
UK (per academic year)
Total fee*
2025/26
£9,535
£47,675
*Tuition fees for Home (UK) students are determined by UK government policy.
Tuition fees are charged for each year of your course.
Fees for second and subsequent years are likely to increase annually in line with UK inflation as measured by the Retail Price Index (RPI-X) and subject to maximum regulated fee rates set by the government.
For more information, see our fees and funding pages
International (including EU) tuition fees
International (per academic year)
*Tuition fees for international students are set by City St George’s, University of London.
Fees for second and subsequent years are likely to increase annually in line with UK inflation as measured by the Retail Price Index (RPI-X) and will not normally increase by more than 5 per cent each year, except when the rate of inflation is significantly more than that projected in the preceding year.
Additional costs
The table below highlights the additional course-specific costs related to this degree.
Visit the additional course-related costs for more information on general costs to consider alongside your studies.
Additional cost
Description
Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check
DBS - £40
Post office verification - £6
Administration fee - £9
Equipment
Lab coat £20 - available for purchase in the SU shop
Stethoscope - £100.
Travel to and from hospital placements
Students complete compulsory clinical placements throughout their studies, with shorter placements in year one and two of MBBS5 and year one of Graduate Entry Medicine (MBBS4).
Clinical placements in the third/transition (T), penultimate (P) and final (F) years typically last five weeks, with some placements being shorter.
The majority of our secondary care placement providers outside of London, will offer accommodation as part of the placement.
Accommodation is not offered for London-based placements, and for these students will incur travel costs from their place of residence.
Travel costs will vary according to where you live and where your placement is located.
As a guide, the cost of an annual student travelcard from Zones 1 - 9 is £2,700.
If you are in receipt of/eligible for an NHS Bursary from your 5th year, you may also be eligible to receive reimbursement towards placement accommodation and/or travel costs.
Please see the MBBS brochure (PDF) for further details of secondary care placement provider locations in the clinical years.
Electives
Costs may be incurred for travel and accommodation and will depend entirely on where an elective is undertaken.
Immunisations, insurance, passport renewals and visa costs may be necessary if you choose to study abroad.
Some hosting institutions also charge an administrative fee (typically around £500 to £1000).
Final Year GP accommodation (five weeks)
In the final year of the course, additional expenses may be incurred for travel and accommodation to GP placements.
Those in receipt of an NHS bursary can reclaim most of the costs.
Residual costs up to a cap are available from Health Education England (HEE) Undergraduate Tariff when the placement is beyond a reasonable commute from the University.
For students who are not eligible for NHS Bursary travel and accommodation expenses, and who are in placements beyond a reasonable commute from the University, students can claim expenses from the University and Undergraduate Tariff, up to a cap.
As a student at St George's you're also automatically a member of our Students' Union, which offers over 120 clubs, societies and community projects.
We provide specialist clinical knowledge of aviation and space medicine, through lectures, forums and tutorials.
The Firebirds are an all-inclusive level 1 cheer team who stunt, tumble, jump and dance both competitively and recreationally.
The Afro Caribbean Society (ACS) aims to empower people from a variety of backgrounds by bringing people together to appreciate the culture and heritage of different African and Caribbean countries.
Marrow is a voluntary student organisation that works with Anthony Nolan to recruit potential donors onto the stem cell register.
We organise donor recruitment clinics here at St George's and also raise charitable funds to run the events and support the charity.
If you are interested in Anatomy, Surgery, or just want to further your anatomical education, then this is the perfect society for you!
Our Athena SWAN (Scientific Women’s Academic Network) chapter is a student society that fundamentally promotes racial diversity and the equality of all genders within STEMM career advancement.
Namaste!
The Yoga Society is one of the most active societies at St George's, with students and staff taking part in the three weekly yoga sessions.
This is the home of all different crafts at George's.
We meet every Monday in the Dragon Bar from 5pm to craft.
We welcome everyone, experienced or not and are always happy to teach!
We hope to create a community for vegans, vegetarians & anyone interested in moving towards a more cruelty free lifestyle and to provide support in adopting a plant based lifestyle.
We're a family of Catholic (and non-Catholic) students from St George's who gather occasionally to pray the rosary, share stories, food and encouragement.
We are a group of Christians from multiple denominations - united around the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Our mission and aim is to build each other up in our faith and to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ to the St Georges community.
Our aim is to help students develop academically, socially and most importantly spiritually as they progress through university.
The Jewish Society aims to be a family away from home for all of the Jewish students on campus!
We are warm, welcoming and inclusive, and invite anyone from any background to join us.
To be eligible for the Medicine MBBS (5-year) programme, you must meet the requirements outlined under Entry Qualifications, Other Academic Requirements, and Non-academic Requirements below.
Our Admissions Process
At City St George’s, we strive to ensure our admissions process is fair and transparent.
In order to make sure every applicant is treated equally, we use a process based on objective measures.
For example, while we take the time to read your personal statement, it is not formally assessed, or used to determine whether you will be invited for a Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) .
The steps below outline our general admissions process and the way by which we determine which applicants will receive an offer to study Medicine MBBS (5-year) at City St George’s.
For non-graduate applicants, with the exception of GCSEs, all qualifications must have been completed within the previous five years, including the year of application.
If you are applying on the basis of A Levels, you must meet both the A Level and GCSE requirements below.
Grades
Subjects
Including Chemistry and Biology or Human Biology.
Additional information
Please note, the above states our minimum entry requirements, but you may receive an offer ranging between AAA – A*AA at A Level.
A Levels must be completed within one sitting across a maximum of two years.
Applicants may be permitted a third year of study following a successful Extenuating Circumstances application.
The following subjects are not considered: General Studies, Critical Thinking and Citizenship Studies.
Five subjects graded 6 (B) or above
Five subjects which must include English Language, Maths and Science (Double or Triple Award).
If you are applying on the basis of International Baccalaureate, you need to meet both our Higher Level and Standard Level requirements, as outlined below.
Award
Full Award Diploma
Scores
Overall score of 36
18 points at Higher Level, including a minimum grade 6 in Biology and Chemistry.
If at least a 6 (B) has not previously been attained in GCSE/IGCSE Maths and English, you will need the following:
We do not accept resits which require a third year of study.
Access Diploma
If you are applying on the basis of an Access Diploma, you must meet both the Access Diploma and GCSE requirements below.
Full award diploma (Access to Medicine)
60 credits at level 3 (45 graded and 15 ungraded)
39 credits at Distinction and 6 credits at Merit.
All Chemistry and Biology credits must be at Distinction.
Any additional level 3 credits outside of the 60 credit diploma will not be accepted.
The course should be QAA recognised.
If you have completed Level 3 qualifications (i.e.
A Levels) in the required subjects within the past five years (including the year of entry), or you are a graduate, we are unable to consider an application on the basis of an Access Diploma.
We do not accept resits which require a second year of study.
Two subjects graded 6 (B) or above
University Degrees
If you are applying on the basis of a degree, you do not need to meet our GCSE or Level 3 (A Level) requirements.
Degree
UK Undergraduate (BSc, BA, BEng, BBA, MSci, MPharm etc.)
2:1 Honours
Any discipline and any subject
Degrees must be completed and fully awarded (including re-writes) by 31 July of the academic year of application.
If you achieved a 2:2, you will need to complete a Masters to be eligible to apply.
Graduates cannot apply on the basis of Level 3 qualifications.
UK Postgraduate (MA, MSc, MPhil, PhD etc.)
In addition, applicants must have an undergraduate degree at 2:2 Honours or higher (any discipline and subject).
Degrees must be completed and fully awarded (including re-writes) by 31 August of the academic year of application.
Funding options differ for graduates on an undergraduate degree.
More information can be found from the Medical Schools Council .
Applicants who are currently enrolled on a degree, but are not in their final year, should apply later as a graduate, or apply with their previous qualifications, withdrawing from their degree prior to enrolment.
Other UK Qualifications
Cambridge Pre-U Diploma
If you are applying on the basis of a Cambridge Pre-U Diploma, you must meet both the Diploma and GCSE requirements below.
D3, D3, D3
Three principal subjects to include Biology and Chemistry.
Five GCSEs at grade 6 (B) or above.
Subjects must include English Language, Maths and Science (Double or Triple Award).
Scottish Highers
If you are applying on the basis of Scottish Highers, you must meet the Highers, Advanced Highers and National 5 requirements below.
Highers: AAA including Chemistry and Biology
Advanced Highers: AA including Chemistry and Biology
English Language and Maths National 5 at grade B
International Qualifications
We welcome applications from applicants around the world.
For information on the requirements for your country, please visit our International Qualifications for Undergraduate study page, or our International Qualifications for Postgraduate study page if you are applying on the basis of a degree.
Contextual Admissions
At City St George’s, we want to attract students who share our mission to improve the health of society, regardless of their background.
That’s why our Contextual Admissions schemes take into consideration additional information from your application, like the school you attended or the area you live in or if you have been in care, to make the admissions process fairer.
Further details on Contextual Admissions are available here .
UCAT (University Clinical Aptitude Test)
Both the section scores and the overall cut-off score must be met.
Section score
Minimum 500 in each individual section
Overall score
Minimum overall UCAT score (calculated every year)
UCAT must be taken in the year of application.
For 2026 entry, we will be considering the 'Situational Judgement' SJT Banding scores in our decision making.
We will not consider any extenuating circumstances in relation to UCAT test scores.
UCAT results are used to select applicants invited to interview and may be used to rank a post-interview waiting list.
UCAT scores do not need to be included on your UCAS application as we will be informed of your scores directly by Pearson and UCAS.
Please ensure that the name you use to register for UCAT is the same as that used on your UCAS form so results can be matched.
We will receive any annotations UCAT include with your scores, however we are unfortunately unable to consider these as part of your application.
For reference purposes, we have provided the 2025 UCAT cut off scores, as well as the overall scores we have required in previous years, on our Admissions Statistics page.
In 2025, Abstract Reasoning will be withdrawn from the test.
The test will comprise 3 cognitive subtests (Verbal Reasoning, Decision Making and Quantitative Reasoning) alongside the Situational Judgement Test.
Please note the UCAT cut off scores published on our website will include the Abstract Reasoning score.
Below are some key dates that you may find useful.
These are correct as of February 2025, however please do check the UCAT website for the most up to date information.
Test preparation
UCAT has developed practice tests and a toolkit to support your test preparation.
View the information on the UCAT Candidate Preparation Toolkit page .
Details of the exam and how to register to sit the test can be found on the UCAT website.
English Language
If you are applying from outside of the UK, you will need to meet the English language requirements outlined here .
This is a group 1 course.
Work Experience and Insight
We understand the challenges for our prospective applicants for medicine and allied health courses trying to gain work experience at this time, particularly in clinical settings.
In response to the continued impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have chosen to relax our work experience requirements for prospective applicants for our courses which would normally require these.
Despite the relaxed requirements, we still require our applicants to have an understanding of the realities of working as a healthcare professional and to show they have the necessary skills and attributes for their chosen career.
Online resources can give you valuable insight into working in the healthcare sector and outline the wide range of careers and courses available.
You can find a number of suggested resources for each of our courses here .
Interview
If you meet the entry requirements above, you will be invited to attend a Multiple Mini Interview (MMI).
This will usually be in-person, however we can also offer remote MMIs for international applicants.
You can find further information about this process on our MMI Guidance page, however please note that some of this information may change for those applying during the 2026 application cycle.
Occupational Health Checks
Should you receive an offer to study at City St George’s, you will be required to complete a health check and be declared fit to study and practise by the Occupational Health (OH) department before you begin your studies.
The following vaccinations are mandatory for all healthcare students before you begin your studies:
As part of the process, you will also be screened by the OH team for Chickenpox, Tuberculosis, HIV and Hepatitis B and C.
We do not currently require you to have been vaccinated against Covid-19, but we strongly recommend that you get double vaccinated before the start of your studies, unless medically exempt.
When admitting candidates to study and practice as a health practitioner, we have an obligation to both patients and to the individual student.
Candidates who are concerned about a health issue are advised to contact us.
Disclosure and Barring Service Checks and Additional Declarations
This course will include work with children and vulnerable adults, so you will be required to submit a series of declarations.
If you are invited to an interview, we will request some additional information from you, regarding your criminal record, educational history and employment history.
You will also have the opportunity to make any other declarations that you’d like us to be aware of.
We may not able to consider applicants who were suspended from previous study/work due to fitness to practise issues or failure in assessments/examinations.
If you are made an offer, you will be required to complete an enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
More information about this is sent to applicants as part of the admissions process.
Previous Studies in Medicine
If you studied but did not complete Medicine at an alternative university and are re-applying on the basis of your Level 3 (e.g.
A Level) qualifications, please provide formal evidence as to why you withdrew when you apply, and no later than 1 November in the year of application.
Please email the team ensuring you include your UCAS personal ID number and programme name in the subject line.
Applicants will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
Recent Engagement in Education
Due to the demanding nature of the programme, it is important that non-graduate applicants can demonstrate recent engagement in education.
If the level 3 qualifications that you are applying on the basis of were awarded more than five years ago (e.g.
before summer 2021), it may still be possible for us to consider your application.
In this case, we would look at supplementary level 3 qualifications, or relevant work experience, that you have undertaken within the last five years.
These applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis, following submission of a UCAS application.
At St George’s, we strive to ensure our admissions process is fair and transparent.
The steps below outline our general admissions process and the way by which we determine which applicants will receive an offer to study Medicine MBBS (5-year) at St George’s.
At St George’s, we want to attract students who share our mission to improve the health of society, regardless of their background.
For 2025 entry, we will be considering the 'Situational Judgement' SJT Banding scores in our decision making.
For reference purposes, we have provided the 2022 UCAT cut off scores, as well as the overall scores we have required in previous years, on our Admissions Statistics page.
These are correct as of February 2024, however please do check the UCAT website for the most up to date information.
You can find further information about this process on our MMI Guidance page, however please note that some of this information may change for those applying during the 2025 application cycle.
Should you receive an offer to study at St George’s, you will be required to complete a health check and be declared fit to study and practise by the Occupational Health (OH) department before you begin your studies.
before summer 2020), it may still be possible for us to consider your application.
Our MBBS five-year course provides a well-rounded base of scientific medical education and practice, equipping you with the latest skills and techniques to bring benefits to patients and populations, with particular emphasis given to developing you as a professional and person over and above the role of the doctor.
It is made up of core curriculum elements and opportunities for in-depth study in areas of your choice.
The early years, known as the ‘ clinical science years’ , are underpinned by three main themes:
In Years 1 and 2, these themes are delivered through seven modules: Introduction to Medicine; Life Cycle; Life Protection; Life Support; Life Maintenance; Life Structure; and Life Control.
During the first two years, the emphasis is on lectures, tutorials and group activity, but there is a strong underlying focus on patient care and early patient contact through short clinical and community-based placements.
Delivery
Weeks
Modules/placements
Taught
12
Broad introductory syllabus covering all modules, themes and teaching strands.
The first ten weeks includes elements of interprofessional education.
Clinical
Half day general practice and community visits
Life Support Module (Cardiovascular and Respiratory Systems)
Early Years Clinical Experience (Hospital placements currently include medicine, surgery, senior health and radiology)
Life Maintenance Module (Endocrine and Alimentary Systems, Kidney and Body Fluids, Metabolism)
The following shows an example timetable for a learning week on this course.
Please note that this is for illustrative purposes only as timetables will vary in between and within modules.
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Morning
Live large group teaching (hybrid, onsite or remote)
Onsite case based learning (small group tutorial)
Onsite anatomy
Live, onsite large group teaching
Asynchronous learning content or live sessions (onsite or remote)
Afternoon
GP/Community healthcare visits or asynchronous learning content
Free
Life structure (musculoskeletal, integument and genetics)
Early years clinical experience (geriatrics, radiology, medicine, surgery)
Life control (neuroscience and psychiatry)
Life cycle (inheritance, reproduction, growth, ageing and disability)
Early years clinical experience attachment (geriatrics, radiology, medicine, surgery)
Life protection (infection, immunity, mechanisms of disease
Self-directed
Student selected components; study an area of interest in depth, developing research and presentation skills and to gain insight into possible careers
Revision
Revision period
Assessment
Summative assessment
Please note that this is for illustrative purposes only as timetables will vary in between modules.
From Year 3 – the ‘transition year’ – the emphasis shifts away from lecture-based activity to a combination of problem based learning and SSC of study based on your own interests, rotating with experiential learning on clinical attachments.
Problem based learning in Year 3 covers:
As well as a three-week block based around your SSC, you will undertake five-week clinical placement blocks in Medicine, Surgery and General Practice (outlined below).
These incorporate a weekly half-day lecture and tutorial programme to support the development of planning and interpreting core investigations and prescribing common drugs.
These sessions are delivered by leading practitioners in their fields and focus on analytical skills and practical knowhow.
You have the opportunity in your third or fourth year to undertake an intercalated iBSc of your choice.
You can study here at City St George’s or at a selection of other institutions.
This allows you to advance your coverage of a variety of topics and undertake in-depth research, resulting in the award of a Bachelor of Science degree (with Honours).
You are supervised by academic and research staff in individual research laboratories.
Entry is competitive and selection is based on academic results.
We offer degree pathways in Anatomy, Cell and Molecular Biology, Genomics, Infection and Immunity, Medical Ethics and Law, Physiology and Pharmacology, and Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience.
Modules include the following.
Modules
Biology of Cancer
Cardiovascular and Respiratory Diseases
Cell and Molecular Biology
Clinical Applications of Genomics
Clinical Neuroscience
Clinically Applied Musculoskeletal Anatomy
Development and Disease
Genes and Gene Expression in Eukaryotic Cells
Human Medical Genetics
Images of Anatomy
Immunity and Infection
Medical Ethics and Law
Neglected Tropical Diseases
Neuroscience of Sensation and Perception
Personalised Medicine
Pharmacology and Physiology of Drugs of Abuse
Psychology, Psychiatry and the Mind
Science of Reproduction
As an alternative to an intercalated bachelor’s degree, students can apply competitively after their third year to aim for an iMSc, again internally or externally.
All taught components of an intercalated master’s programme must be completed before the start of your final year in August and we would also expect you to have completed your research project by this point in time, despite the usual end date being October each year.
All of City St George’s master’s programmes meet these requirements, as do some external courses.
Subsequent years have increasing amounts of clinical exposure.
Students are increasingly responsible as partners in their own development, with an increasing emphasis on experiential learning in the workplace in line with GMC guidance.
Year 4, the penultimate year, features rotation through a series of clinical attachments in: medicine, senior health, cardiology, surgery (including surgical specialties), palliative care, neurology, neurosurgery, neurorehabilitation, psychiatry, obstetrics and gynaecology, and paediatrics.
In the final year, five-week assistantships in medicine, surgery and general practice usually offers the opportunity for a one-to-one apprenticeship with a resident doctor or GP.
You’ll also experience rotations in critical care and anaesthetics, accident and emergency, and public health.
After finals assessments, you will undertake a five-week elective activity.
This is an opportunity for you to explore, in a practical setting, an aspect of medicine of particular interest to you or relevant to your future career in medicine, anywhere in the world.
Clinical attachments are based at healthcare trusts, hospitals and other community-based sites mostly in south London and the south east of England.
In the later years of the course, placements can include more distant sites in order that students gain experience in a range of urban and more rural settings.
Learning from patients, clinicians and other healthcare professionals in practice is a fundamental part of training to become a doctor.
It is the variety and volume of clinical placement opportunities we offer that students tell us they like most about our course.
Teaching and learning is initially supplemented by and later dependent on attachments throughout southwest London and beyond in areas of general practice, hospitals and other community settings, for example, palliative care hospices, sexual health clinics or community hospitals.
You will gain experience of working as part of a team, demonstrating professional behaviour and performing (under supervision) a range of procedures, beginning with routine procedures and culminating in more advanced, highly skilled techniques by the end of your course.
Following an initial preparatory week, there are three two-week early years clinical experience placements in any of a broad range of hospital specialities between term 2 of Year 1 and Year 2.
You will undertake short clinical and community-based placements with local providers, which mark the beginning of your career long clinical and professionalism learning.
Building on your clinical communication skills and clinical skills, you will learn and practise simple clinical procedures.
You will not yet be expected to clerk patients and present their problems in the ways you will be during the clinical practice years, but instead will be encouraged to talk and listen to patients and their carers as people, and learn from them in their role as ‘experts by experience’.
In particular, we want you to learn about their experiences of their care, good and bad and their expectations of the various professionals caring for them.
Understanding the significance of working in true partnership with patients is at the heart of good medical practice.
Learning the importance of working collaboratively and effectively with other professionals in the health care team is also an essential part of your training.
You will have opportunities to extend your knowledge of the roles of the various members of the health care team, and seek their views on the role of the doctor within the team.
You will take part in nursing shifts, so that you can fully orientate yourself to the hospital environment, take an active part and contribute to ward life under nursing supervision.
Year 1: Two sessions for M5 in October.
Year 2: Three sessions from January onwards.
Year 1 and 2: Three one-week early years clinical experience in any of a broad range of hospital specialities.
During Year 3, your transition from the academic environment to learning in the workplace continues, with longer placements during which you become more able to learn effectively and safely from direct patient contact, establishing the trust of patients and colleagues.
By the end of this year you should be fluent in taking a history and examining adult patients, and giving a basic list of potential diagnoses and initial management plans.
Year 3: One 5-week placement
Year 3: Two 5-week placements in each of medicine and surgery
Year 4 and final year
In Year 4 almost all learning is on clinical placements, including your first exposure to a range of specialist areas, so that by the end of the year you are able to tailor your diagnostic skills and outline investigation and management plans for common conditions, with expanded skills in the specialities you have encountered.
Your final year then lays the groundwork preparing you to be a foundation doctor, with assistantships in general practice, medicine and surgery, and advanced clinical practice experience in emergency medicine, critical care and anaesthetics as well as a public health block.
Year 5: Five week placement.
Year 4: 11 weeks integrated medical specialities, 10 weeks general surgery and surgical specialities, one week palliative care, and five-and-a-half weeks each neurology stroke and rehabilitation, psychiatry, paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology.
Year 5: Three five-week assistantships in each of medicine, general practice and surgery, four weeks critical care and anaesthetics, four weeks emergency medicine
Year 5: 2 week clinical placement.
You should be prepared to travel for your placements across Greater London, neighbouring counties and beyond.
Practice placement locations include:*
You are supervised by experienced clinicians and trained mentors.
You also receive support from your University personal tutor, specialty and year leads with a mixture of fixed and student initiated contacts.
*This list is subject to change and should be used as a guide of where students may be able to go.
In the final year, placements are also provided at more distant sites, including Maidstone, Royal Devon and Exeter, Yeovil and Torbay.
During your course, you will acquire the scientific and clinical expertise to keep abreast of the changes in diagnostic and therapeutic medicine required for our rapidly changing societies.
We will equip you to apply for the specialty training you desire and support you to become future healthcare leaders.
The curriculum is organised into integrated learning weeks, supported by case-based and problem-based learning tutorials.
We use a variety of teaching styles to encourage learning, including directed self-learning, student-selected study and independent study:
Our expertise
The extensive experience of our teaching team spans the full breadth of medical and surgical specialists, GPs, biomedical scientists and research scientists.
For example, our transition year is led by an A&E consultant, the penultimate year by a renal and acute medicine physician, and final year by a urological surgeon.
Course Director Professor Hannah Cock is a consultant neurologist in the Atkinson Morley Regional Epilepsy Network, based at St George’s hospital.
In addition to her educational roles, she has research interests in status epilepticus (prolonged uncontrolled seizures), the treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy, and improving services and care for people with epilepsy.
Our researchers are contributing to the University research focused on advancing the prevention and treatment of disease in the fields of population health, heart disease and infection – three of the greatest challenges to global health in the 21st century.
Our focus on health and biosciences has recently been targeted at helping to understand the immunology, virology, and genetics of Covid-19 to inform advances in new diagnostics, new treatments and a vaccine.
We are also influencing public health policy and providing evidence-based information and advice to frontline healthcare practitioners.
During the course, you’ll also have the opportunity to study alongside highly experienced clinicians and learn directly from junior doctors on the job, something our students particularly enjoy.
Assessment methods
You will be assessed in three domains:
All domains must be passed independently in order to progress to the subsequent year.
During Year 1, there is one practice ‘formative’ assessment of knowledge, and in year 2 one of clinical competency, to prepare you for summative assessments later in the year, and during the remainder of the programme.
Teaching Staff are encouraged to also include formative quizzes within their learning materials throughout the curriculum.
Knowledge assessment methods include short answer questions and single best answer questions.
CCAs take the form of a set of structured tasks, which can include practical procedures, interviewing skills and examination of patients, reflecting the curriculum content up to that year of the programme.
Workplace (placement) based assessments, for example, mini-CEX (Clinical Evaluation Exercise), direct observations of practical procedures (DOPS), and case based discussion (CBD) also play an increasing role in the later years of the curriculum, for both formative and summative purposes.
These tasks and activities during placements provide an opportunity to receive expert feedback, reflect on and discuss events and your own experiences in the real clinical environment.
Together with attendance, behaviour, a personal and professional development portfolio, and variety of projects, this forms part of the Becoming a Doctor domain, which builds and assesses professional behaviour each year, and serves as an evolving portfolio to evidence your knowledge and experience to support later career plans.
Final year assessments (for graduates from 2024-25 onwards) will take the form of the National Medical Licensing Assessment (MLA) comprising an Applied Knowledge Test (AKT), and the Clinical and Professional Skills Assessment (CPSA).
This will be instead of our current Final year AKT and CCA, but with essentially the same format and delivery.
We have also been, and will continue to take part in the pilots for the MLA, and member of our assessment team are also involved in the MLA.
The Prescribing Safety Assessment , and Becoming a Doctor Domain must also be passed in Final year prior to graduation under our Scheme of Assessment.
MBBS graduates who wish to undertake the UK foundation programme must also take the situational judgement test (SJT), which is a national assessment.
Competence in all foundation year Practical Skills and Procedures ( Outcomes for graduates – Practical skills and procedures - GMC (gmc-uk.org) _ must be achieved on at least one occasion, within the two clinical practice years prior to graduation.
“
Our MBBS programme is professionally accredited and quality assured by the General Medical Council (GMC), the independent regulator for doctors in the UK.
Successful graduates go on to a diverse range of careers, with the vast majority choosing to complete the GMC Foundation Programme to practice medicine in the UK.
At the end of the undergraduate course, you will receive your MBBS degree, which is a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
Holding a PMQ entitles you to provisional registration with the General Medical Council (GMC), as long as the GMC has no concerns relating to your fitness to practise.
In 2024, The GMC is introducing a national Medical Licensing Assessment (MLA) which will form part of your final examinations.
All medical students graduating from UK universities from the academic year 2024–25 onwards will be required to pass the MLA as part of their degree before they can join the medical register.
After graduation, the majority of our graduates go on to complete the two-year UK Foundation Programme.
This is a two-year work-based training programme that enables you to work and practice as a doctor in the UK.
Provisionally registered doctors can only practice in approved Foundation Year 1 posts; the law does not allow provisionally registered doctors to undertake any other type of work as a doctor within the UK.
Through an integrated study programme of medical sciences and clinical sciences, our graduates are fully equipped to perform well in the GMC Foundation Programme and further develop the essential knowledge and competencies needed to pursue a specialist discipline.
To obtain a Foundation Year 1 post, you will need to apply during the final year of your undergraduate course through the UK Foundation Programme Office selection scheme, which allocates these posts to graduates on a competitive basis.
So far, all suitably qualified UK graduates have found a place on the Foundation Year 1 programme, but this cannot be guaranteed.
Successful completion of the Foundation Year 1 programme is normally achieved within 12 months and is marked by the award of a Certificate of Experience.
You will then be eligible to apply for full registration with the General Medical Council.
You need full registration with a licence to practice medicine unsupervised in the UK in the NHS or private practice.
Regulations in this area change from time to time so we recommend visiting Medical Careers NHS, which also provides information on working as a doctor.
UK Medical Programmes, including ours, are quality-assured and recognised internationally.
However, applicants are always advised to check with individual national authorities if they wish to practise outside the UK after graduation.
In some instances, students may need to take a national licensing assessment for the relevant country, in addition to their medical degree in order to be able to practice there.
Our programme is geared towards supporting students to practice in the UK.
As such, we do not provide any specific support for overseas assessments (such as the USMLE) nor residency matching services.
Most graduates work as doctors in the NHS, but our graduates also pursue a variety of alternative career options including a career in academia, teaching or conducting research, pharmaceuticals, or hospital management.
Our courses can lead students to a diverse range of career options.
Read about the experiences of City St George's alumni and see where this course could take you.
City St George’s, University of London Tooting campus  is co- located with one of the largest teaching hospitals in the UK.
This is also where Channel 4 television series 24 hours in A&E is filmed).
This self-directed learning room provides a space where you can practise clinical skills outside of the formal teaching sessions.
Equipment needed is available in the room or can be borrowed from our Teaching Services team.
This facility provides an opportunity for peer practice and shared learning.
Our science laboratories are fully fitted with equipment for biological, chemistry, biomedical, molecular biology and pharmacy practicals.
This includes microscopes, spectrophotometers, DNA amplifiers, organ baths and specialist glassware.
We also have audio visual equipment installed, so that microscope images can be projected on to large screens.
There are opportunities for simulated practice in all years of the course both within the University, and across our partner NHS Trusts.
This includes access to the City St George’s Hospital Advanced Patient Simulator Centre in Final year.
At City St George’s, you’ll be welcomed by a multicultural student and staff body of different ages, ethnicities, nationalities and backgrounds, all with one thing in common – an interest in healthcare, science and medicine.
Students frequently tell us they greatly appreciate the diversity of our student and staff body, as well as the patients who access healthcare services in the borough of Wandsworth.
The University attracts both school leavers as well as a  ‘mature’ students, aged 21 or over when they start; many have family and caring responsibilities.
Previous projects involving our students have included the creation of a handbook to highlight the often different presentation of clinical signs on black and brown skin, as well as a series of video profiles of doctors and healthcare professionals in different specialities at various stages of their careers.
Even if they don’t have the answer they will point you in the right direction towards the best people to deal with specific problems.
Within your first week at City St George’s, you’ll take part in an induction programme to help with your orientation and introduce you to various study skills, including interprofessional learning and use of the Anatomy suite.
The senior leadership team (course director, deputy, assessment and year leads) meet regularly with year representatives, and also arrange drop in/FAQ sessions where needed, in addition to being contactable directly as with all staff.
We have a wide variety of support resources, including close academic review and support from the Course Team, so that students who are experiencing challenges or difficulty can be proactively supported by the academic development centre, and other appropriate support services or reasonable adjustments.
Clinical Teaching Fellows (CTFs) are fully qualified junior doctors, who support the delivery of teaching within City St George's, University of London and St George’s Hospital.
They are also employed at many of our partner sites, including Ashford and St Peter’s, Croydon, Epsom and St Helier, East Surrey, Kingston, and Springfield hospitals.
They have been in your position and know the struggles of starting university; they also know all of the best pubs, clubs, restaurants, gyms and will help introduce you to your new City St George’s family.
Our Student Centre team can help you with almost any aspect of student life: finances, accommodation, exams and assessment, academic procedures, admissions, international queries, careers, disability and wellbeing, even finding your way around – whatever it takes to make you feel at home.
Our careers service works to support current students and recent graduates to find and maintain a rewarding and successful career.
As well as general workshops on topics such as writing a CV and developing interview skills, the service works with careers tutors from each course area to ensure there are careers activities specific to your programmes and future profession.
You will also be able to book a one-to-one appointment with a careers consultant to discuss all aspects of careers and employability.
This might include investigating options and making career decisions, gaining advice and guidance on where to look for jobs, CV and application checking, or booking in for a practice interview.
Over and above central careers support, the MBBS team has collated a range of targeted medicine resources for our students, including prompts for personal tutors, careers sessions in every year of the programme, a dedicated area of our virtual learning environment with tips on expanding and developing skills beyond the core curriculum, and ‘careers fair’ with input from a broad range of specialities available to all students.
Apply for this course through UCAS (the University and College Admissions Service) by 15 October preceding the year of entry (for 2026 entry, the deadline is on 15 October 2025)
Application checklist
You must provide:
Deferred entry
We will consider applications from applicants who wish to defer entry by a year, provided you plan to use the time constructively.
If you are offered a place on the course and subsequently decide to defer, you must inform us by 1 June of the year of application.
After application
Acknowledgement emails are sent out as soon as we receive your application.
Please make sure that your email account is able to accept communications from City St George’s as we will mainly communicate with you via email.
Extenuating circumstances
Information about applying with extenuating circumstances can be found on the How To Apply webpage.
Read our guidance for highlighting your skills and building a strong application.
At the end of this course you will be ready to undertake foundation year one as a junior doctor.
Duration: Four years, full-time
Explore how medicines work, what it takes to create new treatments to fight disease and how healthcare professionals manage medicines.
Duration: Three years, full time
Page last updated 06/08/2025 09:36 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/medicine-graduate-entry:
Four years, full-time
A101, institution code S49
August 2026 (2026 entry)
Open to graduates from a wide range of science and non-science backgrounds, our graduate entry programme offers a fast-track route which condenses the first stage of a conventional medical degree, so you achieve the qualification in four rather than five years.
Clinically focused and patient-centred, it will equip you with essential knowledge, understanding, skills and attitudes to practice medicine competently and professionally.
Your hands-on learning starts with practical classes in our pathology labs and anatomy suite, alongside GP and community visits.
Our Graduate Entry Medicine degree offers a four-year route into the medical profession, for those who already hold an undergraduate degree in any discipline including arts and humanities.
We attract recent graduates and those who have already experienced professional life in other fields and decided to switch careers.
Their diverse backgrounds and skills make this accelerated, four-year medical degree programme particularly exciting and stimulating.
As well as the option for teaching, research and management, medicine offers a wide choice of careers with over 60 different specialities – from general practice, surgery, emergency or intensive care medicine, to focused practice in areas such as anaesthesiology, clinical oncology or paediatrics.
If you are interested in applying for 2026 entry, join us to learn more about our undergraduate and graduate-entry Medicine MBBS courses.
This webinar will give you an introduction to the Graduate Entry Medicine  (MBBS4) degree at City St George's, University of London, to begin studying in 2022.
Home (UK)
Academic Year
£38,140
Stethoscope - £100+
If you are in receipt of an NHS Bursary for years 2, 3 and 4, you may also be eligible to receive reimbursement towards placement accommodation and/or travel costs.
Please see the MBBS brochure for further details of secondary care placement provider locations in the clinical years.
Residual costs up to a cap are available from  Health Education England (HEE) Undergraduate Tariff when the placement is beyond a reasonable commute from the University.
To be eligible for the Medicine MBBS (graduate entry) programme, you must meet the requirements outlined under Entry Qualifications, Other Academic Requirements, and Non-academic Requirements below.
Applicants must be eligible for 'home' tuition fees.
The steps below outline our general admissions process and the way by which we determine which applicants will receive an offer to study Medicine MBBS (graduate entry) at St George’s.
To be eligible for this programme, your degree should have been awarded within the past five years (e.g.
no earlier than summer 2021).
If your degree was awarded before this time, please click on the Recent Engagement in Education tab below.
Undergraduate Degree
If you are applying on the basis of an undergraduate degree, you do not need to meet any GCSE or Level 3 (A Level) requirements.
UK Undergraduate (BSc, BA, BEng, BBA, MSci etc.)
Postgraduate Degree
If you are applying on the basis of a postgraduate degree, you do not need to meet any GCSE or Level 3 (A Level) requirements.
In addition, applicants must have an undergraduate degree at 2:2 honours or higher (any discipline and subject).
This course enrols at the end of August, and students cannot be registered with another university at this time.
Please ensure that you will not be registered on your postgraduate programme at this time.
If you will, please apply for deferred entry.
International Degree
For information on the requirements for your country, please visit our International Qualifications for Postgraduate Study page.
Please note that you must be eligible for 'home' tuition fees to apply for this course.
GAMSAT (Graduate Australian Medical School Admissions Test)
Both the section scores and overall cut-off score need to be met.
Minimum of 50 in each individual section
Minimum overall GAMSAT score (calculated every year)
Extenuating Circumstances
We will not consider any extenuating circumstances in relation to GAMSAT test scores.
Additional Information
GAMSAT is a professionally designed and marked written entrance test based on a model developed for Australian graduate-entry medical schools.
It tests knowledge, reasoning and communication skills across a range of disciplines.
For the 2026 cycle, the following GAMSAT results can be used: March 2024, September 2024, March 2025 and September 2025.
If you have sat GAMSAT more than once, we will use your highest eligible score in our assessment.
We will only accept scores communicated directly by ACER, so please ensure you follow the guidance they provide.
For reference purposes, we have provided the overall GAMSAT scores we have required in previous years, on our Admissions Statistics page .
If you are applying from outside of the UK, you will need to meet the English language requirements.
Fee Status
You must be eligible for ‘home’ tuition fees.
Please visit the UKCISA website for further information.
Interview (MMI)
Occupational Health Check
When admitting candidates to study and practise as a health practitioner, we have an obligation to both patients and to the individual student.
Disclosure and Barring Service Check and Additional Declarations
If you studied but did not complete Medicine at an alternative university, please provide formal evidence as to why you withdrew when you apply, and no later than 1 November in the year of application.
Due to the demanding nature of the Medicine MBBS (graduate entry) programme, it is important that applicants can demonstrate recent engagement in education.
If your degree was awarded more than five years ago, we will accept any of the following qualifications, in any subject (excluding General Studies, Critical Thinking, and Citizenship Studies), awarded between summer 2021 and summer 2025, as evidence of recent education.
If the above qualification is pending at the point of application, your offer will be conditional on successful completion of this at the grade specified.
Other recognised programmes of study may be accepted, please contact us for details.
The steps below outline our general admissions process and the way by which we determine which applicants will receive an offer to study Medicine MBBS (graduate entry) at City St George’s.
no earlier than summer 2020).
For the 2025 cycle, the following GAMSAT results can be used: March 2023, September 2023, March 2024 and September 2024.
If your degree was awarded more than five years ago, we will accept any of the following qualifications, in any subject (excluding General Studies), awarded between summer 2020 and summer 2025, as evidence of recent education.
Our graduate entry MBBS provides a well-rounded base of scientific medical education and practice, equipping you with the latest skills and techniques to bring benefits to patients and populations, with particular given to developing you as a professional and person over and above the role of the doctor.
Graduate entry medicine programmes involve rigorous, fast-paced study in your first year.
Building on the intellectual skills gained through your previous undergraduate degree, Year 1 covers the essential principles of all the curriculum themes, covering the first two years of knowledge from the conventional five-year pathway in one year.
Known as the ‘ clinical science year’ , this year is underpinned by three main themes:
Basic and clinical sciences: Provides core professional knowledge of the structure, function and development of the normal human body and the changes that occur as the result of disease, injury, abnormal development and ageing.
Professional skills: Equips you with the core patient-centred communication, clinical and procedural skills integral to becoming a doctor, developed and integrated first through simulated practice involving diverse and authentic clinical scenarios, then actual placement experience.
Patients, populations and society: Provides a firm understanding of the health behaviours, attitudes, cultural beliefs and socio-economic factors that influence health outcomes in individuals and communities.
You’ll learn to appreciate the need for a partnership with patients and communities that takes account of these components, understands evidence for harms and benefits of medical intervention and can work professionally in a complex, uncertain and evolving field.
In the first year, these themes are delivered through seven modules: Foundations of Clinical Science; Life Support; Life Maintenance; Life Cycle; Life Protection; Life Structure; and Life Control.
During the first year, the emphasis is on lectures, tutorials and group activity, but there is a strong underlying focus on patient care and early patient contact through short clinical and community-based placements.
Asynchronous learning content or live remote sessions or GP visits
Onsite anatomy teaching
Onsite lectures
Asynchronous learning content or live remote sessions
Independent learning
GP visits or independent learning
From Year 2 – the ‘transition year’ – the emphasis shifts away from lecture-based activity to a combination of problem based learning and SSCs of study based on your own interests, rotating with experiential learning on clinical attachments.
Problem based learning in Year 2 covers:
Subsequent years have increasing amounts of clinical exposure and are known as the ‘clinical practice years’ .
Teaching and learning is initially supplemented by and later dependent on attachments throughout South West London and beyond in areas of general practice, hospitals and other community settings, for example, palliative care hospices, sexual health clinics or community hospitals.
During the first year, you will undertake short clinical and community-based placements, which mark the beginning of your career long clinical and professionalism learning.
Year 1: Community and general practice visits throughout the year
During Year 2, your transition from the academic environment to learning in the workplace continues, with longer placements during which you become more able to learn effectively and safely from direct patient contact, establishing the trust of patients and colleagues.
In Year 3 almost all learning is on clinical placements, including your first exposure to a range of specialist areas, so that by the end of the year you are able to tailor your diagnostic skills and outline investigation and management plans for common conditions, with expanded skills in the specialities you have encountered.
Year 3: 11 weeks integrated medical specialities, 10 weeks general surgery and surgical specialities, one week palliative care, and five-and-a-half weeks each neurology stroke and rehabilitation, psychiatry, paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology.
Final year
Year 4: Five week placement.
Year 4: Three five-week assistantships in each of medicine, general practice and surgery, four weeks critical care and anaesthetics, four weeks emergency medicine
Year 4: 2 week clinical placement.
St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London
Epsom and St Helier NHS Trust, Carshalton, London
Kingston Hospital NHS Trust, Kingston, Surrey
Croydon Health Sciences NHS Trust, Croydon, London
South West London and St George’s Mental Health Trust
East Kent Hospital
East Surrey Hospital
Frimley Park Hospital
Ashford & St Peters
Lectures and seminars: Lecture based teaching from specialist scientists and clinicians is designed to support your depth of learning and the relevance to clinical practice of each core subject.
Complementary sociology, psychology, professionalism, ethics and critical appraisal sessions run alongside and stimulate analysis and critical thinking.
Small group teaching: Wherever possible, teaching and learning occurs in small groups.
Weekly clinical skills and communication skills sessions all occur in the small group format allowing a high degree of learner engagement, role play and reflection.
Inter-professional learning: In the first year, you will take part in shared learning with students from other healthcare professions, including interactive workshops on the themes of professionalism and ethics.
This interprofessional focus aims to demonstrate fundamental principles that are essential to all healthcare workers, especially those that form the foundation for safe practice, effective and appropriate patient-centred care.
Case-based learning: Each week begins and ends with a tutorial based on a clinical scenario.
By applying the taught theory to a clinical context, both your critical skills and learning techniques develop.
Problem-based learning: Given a clinical problem, you use self-directed research to make a diagnosis and suggest an appropriate course of action.
Problem-based learning encourages learning in context, self-motivation and deep, rather than surface understanding.
Clinical and communication skills sessions: At City St George’s we are proud of our emphasis on clinical communication in the MBBS curriculum.
What used to be called a ‘good bedside manner’ is now recognised as an evidence-based core clinical competence.
We work with you to develop empathic practice and a relationship of trust with your future patients.
You will learn to sensitively draw out the patient’s illness and clinical history, how to give information and clear explanations, and how to negotiate with patients and relatives in order to share decisions about their healthcare.
Multimodal Anatomy teaching: Interactive and team-based learning will take place in the Anatomy suite using prosections, plastinated and potted (preserved) specimens, anatomical models, and 3D digital software
Expert tutorials: These cover the full breadth of topics over the year and feature expert patients, practising clinicians and sometimes representatives from the third sector, for example, the Alzheimer's Society or alcohol support teams.
Online learning: Staff at City St George’s have designed a number of Massive Open Online Learning Courses (MOOCs) to support your learning and interest in particular areas, such as genomics or organ donation.
We make use of online resources, such as Speaking Clinically, which has a huge number of videos in which patients talk about their conditions, and have also developed virtual anatomy lessons.
Our anatomists have videoed dissection resources and overlayed the images with X-rays and 3D computational graphics to aid your learning and engagement.
Our focus on health and biosciences has recently been targeted at helping to understand the immunology, virology, and genetics of Covid-19 to inform advances in new diagnostics, new treatments and a vaccine.
During Year 1, there is one practice ‘formative’ assessment of knowledge, and one of clinical competency, to prepare you for summative assessments later in the year, to prepare you for summative assessments later in the year, and during the remainder of the programme.
CCAs take the form of a set of structured tasks, which can include practical procedures, interviewing skills and examination of patients.
Workplace (placement) based assessments , for example, mini-CEX (Clinical Evaluation Exercise), direct observations of practical procedures (DOPS), and case based discussion (CBD) also play an increasing role in the later years of the curriculum, for both formative and summative purposes.
Course Director
Professor Cock is a consultant neurologist (epilepsy), involved in education and research active
As a mature student at City St George’s, you’ll be welcomed by a multicultural student and staff body of different ages, ethnicities, nationalities and backgrounds, all with one thing in common – an interest in healthcare, science and medicine.
The University attracts both school leavers as well as a  ‘mature’ students, aged 21 or over when they start; many have family and caring responsibilities.
In addition to scheduled sessions, you’ll have access to your lecturers, module and placement leads usually by arrangement via email.
Apply for this course through UCAS (the University and College Admissions Service) by 15 October preceding the year of entry (for 2026 entry this date is 15 October 2025) .
Applicants to all courses must provide:
a personal statement (more information about this document is available on the UCAS website)
an academic reference from your current or most recent institutions with predicted grades.
Applicants to graduate entry MBBS (UCAS code A101) must also provide:
This course will equip you with essential knowledge, understanding, skills and attitudes required to practice medicine in a patient-centred, multidisciplinary environment.
Duration: Five years, full time (or six with Intercalated BSc)
Page last updated 18/06/2025 01:51 PM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-life-centre/how-to-pay-your-fees:
There are several methods of paying your tuition fees and halls fees.
You can make payments by credit/debit card or PayPal using St George’s ePay.
If you are the student , go to the student invoice pathway .
You will need your student ID (7 digits) and ‘our reference number’ quoted on the invoice.
If you are a third party (parent or sponsor), go to the open pathway .
You will need the student ID (7 digits) and student date of birth.
Please include your name and student number as a reference when completing any transfer of money to St George’s.
When you have made the payment, please email Accounts Receivable with details of the payment.
The payment can then be allocated to your account.
Account holder: St George’s Hospital Medical School Receivables
Bank name: Barclays Bank
Sort code: 20 00 00
Account number: 43507025
SWIFT code: BARC GB22
IBAN: GB74 BARC 2000 0043 5070 25
Don’t forget to use your name and St George’s student number (7 digits) as a reference, and email Accounts Receivable to confirm the payment.
If you fail to do this your money will be hard to identify and may not be allocated to the correct account.
The easiest and preferred method of paying fees in euros or other international currency is through TransferMate Education .
By using the TransferMate service, you are able to pay at your local bank in your home currency and will be offered a beneficial exchange rate without incurring any bank transfer charges.
Benefits of using TransferMate:
a more streamlined payment process
no international sender/receiver fees
great exchange rates
24-hour customer service from TransferMate
24-hour online tracking of payments
bulk payment options.
Step 1 Check your invoice number.
Step 2 Visit the payment website and complete the brief registration form.
Click ‘Yes’ to confirm you are ready to pay today and then select ‘Process transaction’.
Step 3 Transfer the funds to the advised bank account.
Step 4 Email edu@TransferMate.com with the receipt, a copy of your student passport, and your offer or invoice from St George’s, University of London.
Step 5 Once TransferMate receives your funds and required documents, they will transfer the funds to St George’s and email you confirmation of payment.
Go to TransferMate to pay.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/fees-and-funding/living-costs:
London is one of the most exciting cities in the world to live.
As a student you will be able to sample the best of what London has to offer with discounts on travel, tourist attractions and entertainment.
Whether you are living away from home for the first time, returning to study, or juggling university with family life, it is really important to plan your finances and budget carefully to make sure that the funds available to you last throughout the year.
Living costs will vary depending on individual lifestyle choices and we recommend that all prospective and current students build an online budget plan using sites like MoneySavingExpert or MoneyHelper .
As well as the usual day to day costs such as rent, bills, food, travel, books and course equipment, mobile phone, clothes and entertainment, remember to also budget for your initial arrival and one-off costs such as moving house and graduation.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, you will need to demonstrate to UK Visas and Immigration that you have sufficient funds to support yourself during your studies.
We recommend that all international students build an online budget plan using sites like MoneySavingExpert or MoneyHelper .
For more information and advice for international students please visit our EU and International Student Support page.
One of the advantages of being in London is that there are plenty of part-time work opportunities available.
Students can find work in the many bars, cafes and shops nearby.
If you have other specialist skills, there is a wide variety of temporary and part time jobs you could apply for.
Our courses require intensive full-time study and many incorporate placements.
Please take this into account when you are calculating how many hours you will be able to work during term time.
If you are studying Medicine, remember that the holiday periods are reduced during the clinical years of the course.
Full time students can get 30% off the price of adult-rate Travelcards and Bus & Tram Pass season tickets.
Apply online at the Transport for London website .
Please register using your seven-digit St George’s student number.
Applications will need to be approved by St George’s once you are fully registered and enrolled on your full-time course.
Transport for London will send you the photocard once your application is approved.
The 16-25 Railcard will get you a third off a wide range of UK train tickets.
They have also teamed up with several partners so you can save on things like dining out, theatre tickets, gym membership, and much more.
You can also link your 16-25 Railcard with your Oyster to save money on single off-peak pay as you go fares on the London Underground and Docklands Light Railway.
Visit their FAQs page for full details.
TOTUM gives you access to lots of great discounts, both online and in-store, right across the UK and beyond.
Discounts can be had in: fashion, travel, competitions, entertainment, computers, phones and technology, sport, health and leisure, ethical shopping and more.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/fees-and-funding/information-for-students-who-owe-tuition-fees-to-the-university:
Please contact us if you are having difficulty paying your tuition fees!
We know that you may be feeling worried but it is always best to contact the university as soon as possible to discuss your situation
If you miss a payment deadline and do not contact us to make arrangements the university may withdraw your access to services and ultimately withdraw your place on your course.
Please remember, the Board of Examiners will be informed and you will not be able to progress on your course if you have tuition fees owing.
This means that you will not be able to re-enrol to continue your studies in the new academic year or receive your award.
This means that:
You will need to request an interruption for the whole of the new academic year, you will not be able to resume your studies partway through the year or start the year late.
You must not attend the university for teaching in the new academic year and you must not attend placement, you will not have the insurance that you need to attend placement.
If you are due to graduate you will not receive your award, a certificate or a transcript and will not be able to start in a role which is dependant on your award including your Medical Foundation Placement.
Please see the Tuition Fee Policy and the Tuition Fee Debt Collection Process .
After you have cleared your tuition fee debt, if you need to re-enrol for the new academic year or are due to receive results or an award, please contact your Course Administration Team to facilitate this.
Please remember when you clear tuition fee debts it will take some time for the university to update your records and resolve your status.
You may continue to receive fees reminders for a short time and experience delays in the full reinstatement of services.
You are strongly advised to settle promptly to avoid any disruption to your studies.
You will receive an email to your SGUL account from Finance if you miss a payment or are a debtor for tuition fees.
You can check with Finance regarding your outstanding fees.
Tuition fees must be paid by the date of the final instalment as set out in the Tuition Fee Policy or agreed in your payment plan.
Please speak to the Student Finance Policy Officer or the Finance Team if you are unable to make this date.
Please see the Important Notes below regarding re-enrolment for the new academic year.
If you are not able to make the payment dates you will not be able to commence the new academic year and you will need to apply for an Interruption of Studies for the whole of the year.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-finance-and-funding/finance-advice/general-information:
Please see the links below for lots of useful finance advice and information.
All of the details are correct at the time of writing, however please do see the relevant websites for confirmation of up to date details.
How to apply for a student bank account and products to avoid.
How to plan your finances and avoid building unnecessary debt.
Read more about our work to offer an alternative funding model for Islamic students.
Where to find help and advice for managing your debts.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/accommodation/fees:
Accommodation fees for 2025/26 will be charged at a weekly rate of:
Standard room (single bed): £206
Premium room (double bed): £228
All bills are included in the weekly rate.
Contact lengths vary according to your term da tes, so please refer to your accommodation offer for the exact annual cost.
When planning how much money to allow for accommodation, we recommend budgeting for a 42 week academic year, although this may be longer for some courses (for example, BSc Paramedic Science and many postgraduate courses).
At the point of accepting your offer of accommodation, you are required to make a pre-payment of £150 .
This will be deducted from your first instalment of accommodation fees.
Total payable amounts and payment dates
All students are sent their invoice by email shortly after their arrival to Halls.
The total payable amount can also be found on the original room offer on the accommodation portal .
Accommodation fees are paid in three equal instalments, and are due before the following dates:
30 October
30 January
30 April
You can make payments by credit/debit card or PayPal using City St George’s ePay.
Please include your name and student number as a reference when completing any transfer of money to City St George’s.
City St George’s bank details
Don’t forget to use your name and City St George’s student number (7 digits) as a reference, and email Accounts Receivable to confirm the payment.
Step-by-step guide to paying your fees
Step 5 Once TransferMate receives your funds and required documents, they will transfer the funds to City St George’s and email you confirmation of payment.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/for-students/student-support/student-life-centre/id-cards:
St George's, University of London ID cards are issued to all new students, usually within their first week.
These cards serve as your library card and allow swipe access to computer rooms, labs and other facilities.
You must wear your identity card at all times on St George’s and hospital premises and your presence on site may be challenged if it is not clearly visible.
St George’s is attached to an NHS Trust, and there are a large number of potentially vulnerable people here on the site.
We all have to do our best to maintain physical security.
You’ll be asked to present your ID card when collecting documents or accessing some services at the Student Life Centre or Academic Services.
The library also makes a £1.00 per day charge for using their services without it.
Please report loss or damage to your ID card to the main university reception as soon as possible, so that a replacement can be arranged.
A charge of £5.00 is levied for replacement of lost cards.
Stolen cards (if you have a crime reference number), damaged and expiring cards will usually be replaced free of charge.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/offer-holders/student-laptop-requirements:
To get the most from your studies, you will need your personal computer or laptop (Windows 11 or Mac OS) and an internet connection in your home.
When you join City St George’s you will have the ability to use Office 365 as part of our institutional license and to access St George’s software via AppsAnywhere .
We recommend students are equipped with a laptop with the following minimum specification:
We recommend the following specification if you are planning on upgrading your laptop :
Chromebooks may prevent you from being able to access specialist software you will need for your course, including those that may be necessary for assessments.
Please check with your module leader.
Students who meet the criteria above should complete a laptop or tablet form .
If you do not fit into one of these groups but think you will struggle to meet this requirement, please email IThardship@sgul.ac.uk to discuss the potential support options available.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/register-your-interest:
Thank you for your interest in City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences
Register your interest to receive information about studying at City St George’s School of Health & Medical Sciences.
We’ll keep you up to date with news, events and the latest information.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/explore-st-georges/postgraduate-webinars:
Watch recordings from our Postgraduate Virtual Week held in November 2024 to discover our courses, meet lecturers and students, and hear about postgraduate life at City St George’s (Tooting campus).
An internet connection for the device you’re using, ideally a computer or laptop to view the event, and speakers or headphones to listen in to the event.
Attendees will be able to type in questions to submit during the event, but will not be able to share a webcam or speak to other attendees (so you won’t need a webcam or a microphone).
Detailed technical specifications/system requirements will be included in the join link instructions you’ll receive.
Check your junk or spam email folder.
If you still can’t find the email, please contact us at opendays@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/student-stories:
Our students join us from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds and are united in their passion for improving health.
Hear our students and graduates perspectives about their route to postgraduate study and experience at the University.
Genomic Medicine MSc
Biomedical Science MRes
Clinical Neuroscience Practice MSc
Global Health MSc
Applied Biomedical Science MSc

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/research-degrees/phtea-break-podcast:
The PhTea Break podcast is a new creation from the PhD community at City St George’s, University of London (Tooting campus).
In the next episode of PhTea break, the interviewee becomes the interviewer as Claire Broad introduces fellow second year student Nathan Simpson.
Nathan discusses his experiences mining the genomes of exciting animals in search of antimicrobial peptides that can affect resistant bacteria.
It's not every podcast you hear about tigers, king cobras and helpful advice on undertaking a PhD!
In this episode Tash Clarke interviews PhD student, Claire Broad.
Claire explains that DNA is like a recipe, and describes how she is using a technique called genome sequencing to try and better understand the DNA of sexually transmitted infections in Ecuador.
She shares her tips for first year students, and for those thinking of embarking on a PhD.
Intro and Outro Music - Acid Trumpet by Kevin MacLeod
Link: https://incompetech.filmmusic.io/song/3340-acid-trumpet
License: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/research-degrees/phd-programme:
The programme offers up to four studentships per year, each studentship has a three year duration.
At City St Georges we have three broad objectives for our research work, which are:
Widening participation and cultivating a supportive, inclusive, and diverse community of future scientific leaders central aspects of developing the PhD programme.
Watch the recording of our Research Degree Open Evening to learn more about the PhD programme and doctoral experience at City St George's.
Find out about the team delivering the PhD programme.
Discover potential PhD projects titles and details.
See what the fees are for this course including what funding and additional support is available for students on our PhD programme.
If you want to specialise in health sciences, then St George's is the place to build your career.
You must meet this criteria to be eligible to study on our PhD programme.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/translational-medicine:
One year, full-time
Home fee payers 24 August 2025 | Overseas fee payers 31 July 2025
citizens may apply
8 September 2025
RNA vaccines, gene therapies, GLP inhibitors – medicine is rapidly advancing thanks to recent research breakthroughs.
But how do we achieve the next innovation?
How do we use data to move drug development forward?
What challenges are involved in clinical trials?
How do we unite disciplines to improve human health?
Studying with us, you’ll discover what it takes to turn research discoveries into new diagnostic tools, therapies and preventive strategies for human diseases.
Learning from leading researchers, you’ll prepare to make an impact whether that’s in academia or the pharmaceutical and biotechnology field.
According to the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, there is a shortage of professionals with the practical skills to bridge the gap between bench and bedside.
We’ve designed this course to help you become the expert the sector needs.
Focus on hands-on learning and build your confidence in key areas.
Most of our students have an undergraduate degree in biomedical science.
However, you might have studied a related subject like biotechnology, dentistry or pharmacology.
To get the most out of the course, you’ll need to be confident writing scientifically and working with numbers.
We also expect you to already have some understanding of molecular biology and genetics.
Find out more about postgraduate study at City St George's Tooting campus by registering for our introductory email series.
Join us online to find out more about our Applied Biomedical Science MSc and ask all your course related questions.
Studying this course, you’ll be immersed in the latest biomedical research, with sessions delivered by scientists working actively in the field.
You’ll cover everything from clinical trial management and bioinformatics to population health research and personalised medicine.
For our Hot Topics in Biomedical Science module, we discuss recent publications in a journal club format.
Case Studies in Drug Discovery and Development also gives you a chance to hear more about our researchers’ work.
We’ll tell you about clinical trials happening in London, and you’ll also meet our academics carrying out projects in regions like Africa.
You’ll graduate with a whole host of sought-after skills in areas like data analysis and computer programming.
In the lab, you’ll also get hands-on training in a range of areas such as the safe handling of chemicals, working with DNA, studying proteins and growing mammalian cells in tissue culture.
You’ll apply what you’ve learnt to a three-month research project – either in London or abroad with the Turing Scheme.
Previous students have explored polycystic ovary syndrome, brain cancer, childhood asthma, and more, using methods such as microscopy, genomics and population health statistics.
If you’re looking for a programme that includes a longer research project, you might be interested in our MRes Biomedical Science course.
“Completing this Master's enabled me to gain expertise in molecular biology, bioinformatics, and genomics.
Undertaking a research project allowed me to cultivate essential laboratory skills to become a more confident and competent researcher in cell and molecular biology.”
- Parisa Rahimnashat
“The professors and staff were incredible.
Each one provided expertise in their respective field and allowed me to acquire a new perspective in the field of translational medicine on how to make an impact and take something from bench to bedside.”
- Filip Djukic
“My MSc has been of great importance for continuing with my PhD.
I had the opportunity to considerably improve my scientific writing competency as well as my informatics and statistics skills.
I also learned how to carry out a research project and how to work as a member of a research group.
I’ve been using these skills from the very first day of my PhD.”
- Aurora Campagna
To complete the MSc, you will study eight taught modules across semester one and two, and then complete a three month research project in semester three.
Semester one
Semester two
Semester three
Course start date
The course will start with enrolment and induction activities on 8 - 9 September 2025.
Topics covered will include the virtual learning platform, library and careers service as well as course specific sessions.
There will also be keynote speakers and a social event where students from a variety of postgraduate taught courses can get to know each other.
Case Studies in Drug Discovery and Development (15 credits)
The development of new medicines generally begins with breakthroughs in basic science, leading to target identification and lead development, then pre-clinical and clinical trials before translation to patients (clinical efficacy) and eventually into practice (implementation).
Biomedical scientists work at any stage along this translational “bench-to-bedside” process.
The first half of this module will illustrate the translational research arc by focusing specifically on malaria, covering the natural history of malaria, the life cycle of the malaria parasite, followed by an overview of the discovery and development of early antimalarials, clinical studies and resistance reversal strategies.
In the second half of the module, students will be introduced to great variety of translational research projects carried out by researchers at City St George’s.
Clinical Trials (15 credits)
The data generated from randomised controlled clinical trials are considered to be the most robust in an era of evidence-based research.
Understanding the principles underpinning clinical trials and the complexities involved in set-up and management enables a broad appreciation of the validity and reliability of the trial results and how trials are conducted in real world settings.
This 15-credit module will introduce students to these important principles and concepts.
Teaching sessions will be delivered by lecture with accompanying practical sessions, quizzes and online courses to consolidate knowledge.
Early lectures will introduce clinical trial related concepts and theories along with fundamental knowledge, while subsequent lectures, presented by experts in the field (internal and external to SGUL), will focus on specific aspects of trial conduct.
Students will be encouraged to read and understand the research literature through assigned pre-lecture reading each week and via seminar style Q&A sessions at the end of each lecture.
Importantly, an online research ethics course and good clinical practice (GCP) course will form part of the ICA with a certificate awarded on successful completion.
This is a key requirement for those working within clinical trials.
Students will complete practical sessions based on the topic of the preceding lecture.
Work from the practical sessions will be documented in a practical session notebook, which will count towards the ICA.
The final part of the ICA will involve a written assignment (in the form of a mini protocol) where students will be asked to design a clinical trial to answer a specific research question.
This will test the students’ fundamental knowledge and critical assessment of trial design, implementation, ethics, analysis and reporting.
The final sessions of the module will draw together the key themes explored with a presentation on landmark trials from experts in the field.
Computational Biology (15 credits)
Understanding of large biomedical datasets and data analysis skills are now required at all stages of biomedical research; training in this area is thus greatly desired by potential employers.
Since the human genome was first sequenced in 2003, the biomedical sciences have experienced an explosion of DNA sequence data, functional genomics collections and epidemiological information.
The exponential progress in this area was made possible by the emergence of novel technologies used to sequence DNA, investigate gene function and to store and analyse large amounts of data.
New technologies, comprehensive datasets and advances in data storage have ushered in the field of ‘systems biology’, a catchphrase used in reference to growing efforts of using holistic approaches to study complex problems in biology and medicine.
Availability of properly trained scientists who can analyse such data is now becoming a limiting factor in industry and academia.
Data Analysis Skills (15 credits)
Much of modern biomedical research generates vast amounts of data, including genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics data, as well as electronic health records and imaging data.
Efficiently managing, processing, and interpreting these large and complex datasets require robust data analysis skills.
This introductory module runs in term 1 and will provide students with an understanding of fundamental concepts and skills that will lay the foundation for more specialised, data-based modules in term 2 such as Computational Biology and Population Health Research.
Foundations of Population Health Research (15 credits)
The health research spectrum ranges from controlled environments such as laboratory experiments, to interventional and observational population settings.
Clinical trials are somewhere in the middle of this wide range of approaches in terms of the extent of control that researchers can exert through carefully planned design and concerted efforts for data collection accuracy.
Observational studies aim at understanding “real world" information collected without researchers’ attempts to alter it or interfere.
This module is aiming at structuring a series of challenges that these setting present to researchers and at demonstrating the principles, approaches and solutions commonly applied to overcome them.
Population-based policies and changes in clinical practice rely on both descriptive and inferential data analyses.
Inferential studies seek to produce reproducible results or estimates that can be generalized to large populations.
Understanding patterns in population health and the interconnected pathways between disease, demographics, lifestyle, socioeconomic factors, environmental exposures, and interventions is crucial for designing efficient, evidence-based public health policies.
This module will provide students with a comprehensive understanding of public health, epidemiology, study designs, measures of association between diseases and potential risk factors, and the statistical methods used to quantify their magnitude and significance.
Students will be guided through all phases of the research development lifecycle, from the initial research question and the importance of pilot and feasibility studies to complex observational epidemiological settings, such as cross-sectional, cohort, case-control, and longitudinal studies.
The associated statistical concepts and techniques will include not only simple hypothesis testing but also basic elements of statistical modelling, addressing bias and confounding in observational studies, and methods to minimize them.
An introduction to the Bayesian framework for statistical inference may also be included, depending on the students’ level of attainment in statistics.
The R programming language will be used as a tool for exploring, understanding, and analysing population data.
Emphasis will be placed on understanding when and why specific statistical techniques are applicable or tailored to certain epidemiological designs and measures, the necessary assumptions for their validity, and how to apply them effectively.
Hot Topics in Biomedical Science (15 credits)
Staying abreast of the relevant scientific literature and orally presenting research results are two of the most important skills of practising scientists.
This module will provide students with repeated practice of reading, analysing and presenting scientific papers in the field of biomedical science.
A particular focus will be on the identification of publications of high significance, at the forefront of contemporary research and of technical interest.
In addition to critical analysis skills students will develop their ability to operate in a team by working with peers to discuss publications and to competently design and present coherent presentations.
Analysis of research papers will also familiarise students with a wide variety of scientific techniques and expose them to professional standards of scientific writing and data documentation.
Students will be given introductory lectures to introduce them to selection and evaluation methods.
Subsequently sessions will take the form of whole group discussion based on self-guided analysis that the students have carried out alone and in small groups.
Students will be expected to play an active role in selecting suitable papers for discussion and feedback by tutors will be available at all stages of the self-guided and group discussion sessions.
Laboratory Research Skills (15 credits)
The current module complements the Data Analysis Skills and Hot Topics in Biomedical Science modules by providing students with training in basic laboratory skills commonly required for bench-based biomedical research.
The module will run over the first two terms.
Personalised Medicine (15 credits)
The ultimate goal of personalised, or precision, medicine is to create healthcare strategies that are tailored to each individual patient.
This will be achieved by integrating molecular information with traditional clinical and pathological signs of disease.
Advances in genomic technologies have provided new perspectives across medicine, particularly in screening, diagnosis, disease classification and treatment.
This module explores how this research is being translated into clinical practice to make personalised medicine a reality.
Personalised medicine is not limited to pharmacogenetics (which examines the effect of genetic variation on drug targets, metabolism, efficacy and toxicity) but looks more broadly at how molecular profiling can influence health outcomes.
Examples include molecular therapies used in oncology, advances in pre-natal screening and management of infection.
We also consider ethical and social issues surrounding personalised medicine, including patient responses to genetic testing, the challenge of translating research results into clinical practice, genetic discrimination and regulation.
Examples are drawn from cancer, infection and other clinical specialties.
Research Project (60 credits)
The supervised research project constitutes a central learning activity by providing immersive, work-based training in translational biomedical science.
A research project involves choosing a subject, formulating a specific research question or aim, devising a research strategy to address this question, performing the research and analysing the resulting data.
Project background, experimental procedures, results and discussion are written up as a 10,000-word dissertation and presented orally to an audience with the aid of a poster or PowerPoint presentation.
As the UK's specialist health university, we prepare our graduates for a successful and rewarding career in health and science.
Optional modules are subject to availability.
To be considered for this course, you will need to:
You should have or be expected to achieve, a minimum of a second class degree (2:2).
For healthcare graduates, a pass is required.
All degrees must be awarded before 1 August on the year of entry.
Experience of the research process and/or completion of an undergraduate dissertation is essential.
The course is aimed at students with an undergraduate degree in biomedical science or a related bioscience discipline.
Previous participants have also joined with qualifications in biotechnology, dentistry, medicine, pharmacology and pharmacy.
A fundamental understanding of molecular biology, genetics and arithmetic are beneficial.
We may invite you to interview if are unable to make a decision directly from your application.
Applicants who do not have an undergraduate degree but are current medical students who have successfully completed 360 credits (or equivalent) including at least 120 credits at Level 6 (or equivalent) of their medical degree are also eligible to apply.
We accept equivalent qualifications gained in other countries and use to UKNARIC to assess.
Please see our International Student Support pages for more information.
If you have any questions, you can contact us at pgenquiries@sgul.ac.uk
This is a Group 1 course.
If you have questions about the Applied Biomedical Science course and would like to speak to the course organiser, please submit your questions to us.
Because we share our site with one of the UK’s largest teaching hospitals, you'll learn in a busy healthcare environment.
Many of our teaching staff hold clinical roles or have previously worked in industry, so you will learn from academics with real on-the-job experience.
How our experts teach depends on the course content.
On this course, you can expect a diverse range of:
The way we assess your learning will change depending on the module.
On this course, we use a mixture of:
We have a global reputation as experts in population health, infection and immunity, and molecular and clinical sciences.
St George’s is also a highly active clinical trial site , offering opportunities to become involved in a wide range of ongoing studies .
We have four Clinical Academic Groups in cardiovascular diseases, genomics, infectious diseases and neuroscience.
These groups bring together researchers from the University and clinicians from St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Read about what it's really like to study at St George's with our postgraduate student stories.
We’re the UK’s only university dedicated to medical and health sciences education, training and research.
We share our site with a major London teaching hospital.
This means you’ll become part of a unique clinical and academic research community, mixing with the many different healthcare professionals you will go on to work alongside throughout your career.
Our teaching laboratories are fully fitted with equipment for biological, chemistry, biomedical, molecular biology and pharmacy practicals.
This includes:
We’ve installed audio-visual equipment so microscope images can be projected onto large screens.
You’ll also be able to use our tissue culture facilities, flow cytometry, pathogen containment facilities.
The IRF is designed for Light Microscopy, Electron Microscopy, and sample preparation.
Here you can image histology samples, cells and molecules of all varieties, and model organisms such as zebrafish using any of the light microscope, slide scanning, or electron microscope systems.
Our zebrafish facility has an aquarium that can house over 2,500 adult fish.
The facility is fully staffed to provide the infrastructure and care required by the Home Office’s strict licensing laws for the use of animals in scientific procedures.
The zebrafish have a vertebrate system which can be used to model human disease.
Our researchers take advantage of this to aid drug development, improve patient care, and answer questions at the forefront of medical science.
Did you know each adult mating can produce up to 300 eggs?
This provides a great deal of data for performing statistical analysis.
If you use this facility as part of a project, we’ll provide you with training.
Our on-site Museum of Human Diseases houses a collection of over 2,000 pathological specimens, including those donated by Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie in 1843.
This space is used for small group tutorials exploring the mechanisms of disease.
Our library is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
You’ll find silent, quiet and group learning spaces, as well as group discussion rooms.
We have a wide range of books, e-books, academic journals and other resources.
You’ll also have access to online resources, such as the Canvas Virtual Learning Environment and our Hunter discovery service.
Need accessibility equipment?
The library also loans noise-cancelling headphones, laptop stands, coloured overlays, desktop whiteboards, and more.
We have an extensive range of IT facilities, including:
Looking for a free space?
Simply use our handy real-time computer locator.
As St George's is part of the University of London, you have access to BLOOM@Senate House , a unique space in the heart of Bloomsbury.
Senate House offers a central London base which is particularly useful if you’re studying or living further out.
The area has great transport links, making it easy to access from anywhere in London or further afield.
Students can join the Senate House library free of charge.
Your membership includes a 10-book borrowing allowance, access to all reading rooms and study areas, and on-site access to digital resources.
Based in a major teaching hospital, our students are immersed in a professional clinical and research environment from day one.
Read more about our state-of-the-art facilities.
Whether you’re an existing healthcare professional, returning to education after a break or joining us after graduating from an undergraduate degree, we want to help you make the most of your time here.
To do this, we offer a full range of academic support and student services.
We offer 1:1 career guidance to undergraduate and postgraduate students at every stage of your professional development, from the start of your course through to graduation and beyond.
As a student, you’ll also benefit from career development activities that are specifically tailored to your course.
What we offer:
Our Cost of Living Hub contains the latest information to our community affected by the rising cost of living.
We provide students with various financial support, budgeting advice as well as employability options.
If you require reasonable adjustments or disability services, you can find information on our disability information for students pages.
For any further information please contact the disability adviser .
Our Graduate School brings together postgraduate students from different disciplines, allowing you to support and learn from each other while expanding your professional networks.
The Graduate School works closely with our research institutes and provides opportunities for personal and professional development.
You’ll also have access to a postgraduate common room where postgraduate students and early career researchers can study and socialise.
Our induction sets you up for your studies and helps you feel part of the University.
As well as course-specific activities, we run an online ‘ Get Started ’ module which provides information about:
Our International Students Support service is part of the Student Life Centre and provides information on visas, settlement schemes, enrolment and more.
To find out more, visit our EU and international support pages.
If you’re an international student, get in touch with the team as soon as you accept your offer via student.immigration@sgul.ac.uk .
St George’s has a confidential, free and impartial counselling service available to all students.
You can also access services through our Student Life Centre and our online resources.
This includes links to NHS resources, apps, podcasts and websites dedicated to mental health and wellbeing.
When you start your course, we’ll allocate you a personal tutor.
This is a member of the academic team who you’ll see regularly to monitor your progress and pick up any problems, both academic and personal.
Even if they don’t have the answer, they’ll point you in the right direction towards the support you need.
Our Student Ambassadors support student recruitment events, widening participation activities such as Science Stars and schemes such as Unibuddy Reps.
Our Student Ambassadors also help with one-off or less regular events and creating student generated content like blogs and videos.
Our Student Life Centre team can help you with every aspect of student life including:
Your personal tutor can also signpost you to relevant support.
St George's Students' Union (SU) is an independent organisation run by students for students.
The SU runs a wide range of events and is home to the SU Bar and Shop, music room, dance studios and meeting rooms.
The team also provides welfare support for all students, with an open-door policy.
Want to join a sports team?
Eager to try something new?
We encourage you to take part in the wide range of sports, social and cultural activities and events on offer.
From fencing to hockey, yoga to hiking, we have over 100 clubs and societies so you can be sure to find something that will interest you.
Our popular ‘Mums and Dads’ buddy scheme is organised by the Students’ Union.
Every first year has the choice of being assigned a ‘parent’ from the year above in their respective course.
The returning student acts as a go to for advice about courses and university life.
Our Student Parents and Carers Empowered (SPACE) society is a group run by studying parents that meets monthly to support each other and discuss how to balance family life with studying.
For more information, email the SPACE society .
We’re here to help you develop the academic skills you need to succeed and make the most of our library collections.
Experts from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have helped us design this course.
This means you’ll be equipped with skills that are in high demand in the life sciences sector.
You’ll be able to show potential employers you have expertise in scientific communication, bench-to-bedside pathways, genomic diagnostics and data analysis, as well as research experience and training.
Ultimately, you’ll have learnt everything you need to become a confident scientist.
You’ll be able to carry out common laboratory techniques, effectively manage projects and present scientific material.
Some students continue to doctoral-level study while others find rewarding roles in research and development.
Previous students have gone on to work for example in the biotech/pharmaceutical sector, in a medical diagnostics lab, as a data analyst or continued to study medicine or for a PhD.
Graduates from St George's have access to lifelong careers support after graduation.
In this tab you will find the financial information for this course of study, including details of financial support.
We do not expect students to incur any extra costs over and above those that we have advertised on the course page.
To get the most from your studies, you will need your personal computer or laptop and an internet connection in your home.
Find out more about technology requirements.
We have a range of funding opportunities available for students.
You may be eligible for the following:
We offer a number of scholarships for outstanding students wishing to study a postgraduate course with us.
Before beginning your application please check the entry criteria of the course you wish to study to ensure you meet the required standards.
Applications must be submitted through our online application system, which you can access below.
Guidance on submitting an application can be found on our how to apply webpage .
Select the relevant application link and create an account:
Once you've created an account, you will then be able to complete the application form and upload any relevant documents.
You can save a partly completed form and return to it later.
Please make sure you complete all sections.
Please make sure that the information you provide is accurate, including the options you select in menus.
Add pgadmissions@sgul.ac.uk to your address book to ensure you do not miss any important emails from us.
When you have checked that your application is complete and accurate, click ‘submit’.
You can track your application through your online account.
Guidance for completing your references
Please ensure these details are accurate.
One must be a recent academic reference.
The other should be either a second academic reference or a professional/employer reference.
They should cover your suitability for the course and your academic ability.
We do not accept references from family, friends, partners, ex-partners or yourself.
We will send reminder emails to your referees but it is your responsibility to ensure that contact details are correct and referees are available to submit a reference.
Read our guidance on how to apply for a postgraduate degree.
Untangle the molecular basis and mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance and work alongside our experts on vital research.
Duration: One year, full-time
Discover how to carry out research in clinical settings and work alongside experts to address a healthcare challenge.
Learn how to carry out life-saving research that advances vaccine development, antibiotic treatment and immunotherapy.
Explore the characteristics of cancer from inflammation to genome instability while carrying out research that could save lives.
Study this pioneering degree to carry out research that improves fertility and helps identify, treat or manage birth defects.
Learn how genomics can help understand and diagnose diseases, personalise treatment and improve health outcomes.
Duration: One year full-time, two or three years part-time
Page last updated 06/08/2025 09:52 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/genomic-medicine:
One year full-time, two or three years part-time
City St George's Tooting campus and King's College London
Every individual is unique – our genomes and the way they respond to disease and infection is different.
By understanding what’s going on in our bodies, we can work towards a future where healthcare is personalised, and patients' needs are targeted more effectively.
Genomics is evolving rapidly and making an impact across oncology, pharmacology, cardiovascular disease and neuroscience.
This course is jointly taught with King’s College London and follows a curriculum designed by NHS England.
This means you’ll have access to extensive expertise in areas like bioinformatics and cardiovascular genomics.
Both institutions are also part of the South East Genomic Laboratory Hub.
This is one of the largest providers of genomic testing in the UK and a national centre for specialist testing for haematology, respiratory, skin conditions, and more.
You might already work within the NHS – we have nurses, doctors, pharmacists, midwives and other healthcare professionals join the course.
Other students have decided to retrain in a new area or are recent graduates in a related area like biotechnology or the biomedical sciences.
As well as the MSc, the course is structured flexibly to provide options for PgDip and PgCert awards.
You can also study it on a modular basis towards your Professional Development (CPD).
Both the MSc and PgDip have full-time and part-time options which will help you combine your studies with work or other extra-academic commitments.
Funding update: If you work for the NHS then you may be eligible for funding from NHS England for up to four taught modules.
Applications for NHSE funding are now closed - please register your interest to be notified when more funding is released.
Find out more about postgraduate study at City St George’s, University of London by registering for our introductory email series.
We’ve designed this course to introduce the key areas of genomics.
You’ll also gain an understanding of disease genetics and how genomic medicine can explain disease mechanisms and biology.
You’ll examine the range of ‘omic’ technologies, their interpretation and application in key areas such as cancer, rare inherited diseases and infectious diseases, as well as research.
Nowadays bioinformatics and data interpretation are playing a crucial role in genomics.
In our programme, we’ll make sure that you learn the skills to critically interpret existing research, as well as collect, analyse and interpret your own data using different techniques.
If you’re completing the full MSc, you’ll have the choice of carrying out a 60-credit hands-on research project or a 30-credit extended literature review.
Many of our part-time students choose a project that links to their current role.
Others have explored diverse topics such as genomics and epigenomics features of diseases, bioinformatics analysis of transcriptomics in different cancers, and how genomic experts can integrate minority ethnic groups.
One recent student also explored how genomic education could benefit midwife training.
You can also complete your research project abroad through the Turing Scheme .
Join us online to find out more about our Genomic Medicine MSc and Genomic Medicine (online) PgCert.
Ask all your course related questions.
“This course is an invaluable opportunity to learn about genomics in such detail in a variety of niches, broadening your knowledge and perspective of genomics.
The prospects are extremely broad, making it suitable for NHS staff, academic researchers and recent graduates.”
- Caspar Andrews
Genomic Medicine MSc student
“Completing my research project in Granada, Spain, was a standout highlight of this course for me.
Immersing myself in a new culture in a completely different city and climate, while getting hands-on lab experience and deeper insights into lab dynamics, was both a privilege and an invaluable experience.”
- Millie Graham
“If you have a passion for genomics, this course is for you.
It is extremely flexible and suits people of all professions, from doctors to pharmacists to newly graduated students looking to further their education.”
- Nicholas Bianchini
“I found there to be options for people with all types of interests to discover new methods, techniques, and fields of genomic medicine; and enrich those they already had.”
- Eleanor Tobelem
Genomic Medicine MSc alumna
You should have or be expected to achieve, a minimum of a second class degree (2:2) in a relevant bioscience degree with sufficient genetics content.
Alternative professional qualifications, or previous related experience, may be considered and we encourage you to apply.
Full details can be found on our English Language requirements webpages .
You will be asked to outline your reasons for applying for the course in a brief personal statement on the application form.
You will also need to provide two satisfactory references.
Go to the ‘Apply’ tab for more information.
If you have any questions about the Genomic Medicine course and would like to speak to the course organiser, please submit your questions to us.
The MSc is designed to provide a solid introduction to the key areas of genomics, human genetics and genetic variation, including an understanding of disease genetics and how genomic medicine can illuminate disease mechanisms and biology.
You will examine the range of ‘omic’ technologies: their interpretation and application in key areas of healthcare such as cancer, rare inherited diseases and infectious diseases, as well as research.
With the development of bioinformatics now playing such a crucial role, you will gain sufficient knowledge and understanding required to critically interpret existing genomic research and develop the skills to collect, analyse and interpret data using a range of statistical and bioinformatics techniques.
As a key part of the MSc course, you will get the opportunity to develop research skills by conducting a 60 credit laboratory/computer/counselling research project or a 30 credit extended literature review.
Many of our part-time students choose a project which can be incorporated within their work.
Others have studied diverse topics such as neurological genetic disease or patients with tuberculosis.
One recent student conducted a project on how genomic education could be incorporated into and benefit midwife training.
MSc Genomic Medicine has been structured to provide options to study for PgCert and PgDip awards, as well as the MSc.
At PgDip level, we offer two study routes (Option 1 and 2), which enable you to focus on different diseases.
At PgCert level, we offer three different pathways:
Our wide range of specialist modules can also be studied individually as part of Continuous Professional Development (CPD).
If you work in the NHS our modules are available with or without assessment, fully funded by NHSE as part of your ‘workforce development’ (subject to available commissions).
In recent years, a broad range of health professionals have chosen to study with us, including GPs, surgeons, consultants, research nurses, genetic technologists, pharmacists and biomedical scientists.
Course duration
*Please note that the three year MSc is targeted at NHS staff.
Genomic Medicine MSc example timetables
View the timetables and module breakdown by year for each degree award:
Watch the Genomic Medicine webinar from our Postgraduate Virtual Week.
The modules required for each award are detailed below:
MSc (180 credits, 8 - 10 modules plus research project)
Compulsory modules:
Plus at least three from:
Plus between one and four from:
Please note that students must have completed the Bioinformatics, Interpretation and Data Quality Assurance in Genome Analysis module before starting the Advance Bioinformatics module.
PgDip (120 credits, 8 modules)
This award can be tailored to suit your career goals and interests.
If you would like to discuss the module options available, please contact the Admissions Tutor Dr George Wardley for more information.
Option 1:
Plus 3 from:
Option 2 :
PgCert - Standard Pathway (60 credits, 4 modules)
Plus two from:
PgCert - Medical Pathway (60 credits, 4 modules)
Compulsory module:
Plus one from:
PgCert - Bioinformatics Pathway (60 credits, 4 modules)
The institution module leads have been indicated alongside each module below:
Advanced Bioinformatics* (15 credits) - KCL
This module builds upon and extends the module “Bioinformatics, interpretation and data quality assurance in genome analysis ” and further explores state of the art bioinformatics pipelines for genetic data in a clinical context, suitable for studying genetic variants underlying Mendelian diseases, cancer genetics, and RNA expression data using Galaxy, and also introduces the student to basic Bioinformatic data skills using the command line, R/RStudio and Bioconductor.
The student will learn about the landscape of tools for read mapping and variant calling and how they are suitable for different types of genetic data and analysis.
Lectures will be combined with hands on computer workshops/tutorials, where students can practice designing their own bioinformatics pipelines in the Galaxy environment.
They will work with real gene expression, rare disease and cancer genomics datasets.
The course will also provide a primer for working with large genetic datasets using command line tools, scripting bioinformatics pipelines and using R/RStudio and Bioconductor to analyses and explore and visualise NGS and other ‘Omics data.
*Students aiming to do the Advanced Bioinformatics module will have to complete the Bioinformatics module first.
No prior knowledge in programming is required for either module.
You will learn R-coding in the Advanced Bioinformatics module and, although you might find it challenging at first, your module leads will provide you with plenty of support and guidance.
Students doing the Advanced Bioinformatics module will need to download free VPN software and set up a VPN connection to be able to access our cloud computing facilities in advance.
You can find a guide about how to do this on macOS, Linux or Microsoft Windows and the VPN configuration file .
Application of Genomics in Infectious Disease (15 credits) - SGUL
The teaching sessions of this module will cover the basics of pathogen genome biology, methods for whole genome sequencing (WGS) applied to pathogens and bioinformatic analysis of pathogen genomes.
Numerous examples will demonstrate the relevance of infectious disease genomics to key topics such as antimicrobial resistance, diagnostics, vaccine design, disease surveillance, host susceptibility to infection, public health epidemiology and clinical management of patients.
The application of WGS and implications of pathogen genomics from a perspective of healthcare pathways and public health for its future impact will be the key focus for your study.
The sessions will be interspersed with a series of case studies and research papers for self-directed study, taken from a limited reading list comprising exemplar organisms from the recent literature.
The sessions explore and present multiple examples of pathogens and genomics: TB drug therapy; Pseudomonas aeruginosa and E.
coli outbreaks; Staphylococcus aureus and MRSA; STI diagnostics and resistance; HIV, influenza and the COVID-19 pandemic; pneumococcal and meningococcal vaccine design and surveillance.
Together the sessions, self-directed learning and associated resources form the defined knowledge base for the module.
The literature and other reading materials provide the students with the basis for extended self-study and as a foundation for the module’s summative assessments.
Bioinformatics, Interpretation and Data Quality Assurance in Genome Analysis* (15 credits) - KCL
The module will cover the fundamental principles of informatics and the impact of bioinformatics on clinical genomics.
Students will be expected to be able to find and use major genomic and genetic data resources; use software packages and analysis tools for big data and undertake literature searches to critically assess, annotate and interpret findings from sequence data and genetic variants.
Theoretical sessions will be coupled with practical exercises involving the analysis and annotation of predefined data sets.
This module will equip the student with the essential skills to analyse genomic data, applying professional best practice guidelines.
Upon completion of this module students will be able to understand how bioinformatics is used to analyse, interpret and report genomic data in a clinical context.
Students will also be equipped to utilise the 100,000 Genomes Project data set if relevant for their research project.
*No prior knowledge in programming is required for this module
Ethical, Legal and Social Issues in Applied Genomics (15 credits) - SGUL
Students will be provided with a platform of ethical understanding from which to consider issues of confidentiality, privacy and disclosure, autonomy, welfare, informed consent and justice.
Upon this platform, students will consider the impact of genomic technologies on individual lives and public discourse.
The social implications of the availability of genetic testing and screening will be considered, especially in the context of reproductive technologies.
Finally, students will be provided with a discussion of legal issues surrounding the use of genetic information as well as the use of genetic data for research, diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
Fetal Genomics: Decoding the Blueprint of Human Development (15 credits) - KCL
There have been rapid advancements in genomics technologies and their increasing application in prenatal medicine.
In today's modern age, where litigation rates in obstetrics and fetal medicine are increasingly high, the need for accurate diagnosis, interpretation, and transparent communication of genomic results has never been more pressing.
This climate demands practitioners are adept in employing the latest technologies and conveying complex genetic information clearly and compassionately to patients.
The fetal genomics module aims to bridge this critical gap, providing the necessary training and insights to support precise diagnostics, risk assessments, and patient-centric communication, thereby reducing the potential for legal complications and enhancing trust within the patient-provider relationship.
This module ensures that students are proficient with the latest techniques and are attuned to the societal, legal, and ethical aspects of prenatal genetic testing.
The module reflects the need for a multidisciplinary approach in genomics medicine, paving the way for more informed decisions and personalised care in maternal and child health.
Fundamentals of Human Genetics and Genomics (15 credits) -  SGUL
This module will cover the structure and variations in the human genomics, including fundamental principles of genetics and genomics.
Students undertaking this module will review the architecture of the human genome and the functional units embedded in it.
Students will also cover aspects of gene regulation and chromatin structure and consider the importance of the epigenome in these processes.
In addition, this module will cover DNA sequence variation and structural variation; how this sort of variation is normal but that sometimes it can be associated with disease.
Classic chromosomal abnormalities will be described and the mechanisms that lead to them explained.
Students will learn about monogenic and multifactorial genetic disorders and how gene mapping and sequencing can be used to identify causal and contributory variants.
In essence, this module covers what the genome is, what abnormalities can arise and how they arise, as well as how they can be detected.
Genomics of Cardiovascular Disorders (15 credits) - SGUL
This module explores the burden of cardiovascular disease and the underlying contribution of genetics to these diseases.
Students will receive refresher sessions focused on cardiac function as well as being introduced to the key diagnostic tools used in cardiology.
They will learn about the major arrhythmias and cardiomyopathies which can lead to premature and sudden death.
By studying genetic causes of lipid disorders students will understand the impact of rare and common genetic variants on the risk of coronary heart disease.
The contribution of "big data" and the development of gene panel tests will be discussed to demonstrate some of the benefits that genomic medicine can offer to this group of diseases.
Students will hear about the role and challenges of genetic counselling in inherited cardiac conditions.
Genomics of Common and Rare Inherited Diseases (15 credits) - SGUL
This module uses exemplars of both common and rare diseases from across the entire healthcare spectrum to demonstrate the clinical utility of genomic data in the healthcare setting.
The module examples give an insight into how advances in genomic technologies and integration of genomic data into clinical pathways are impacting on the management of patients from the prenatal setting, through paediatrics and into adult medicine and cancer.
The module will explore the clinical presentation and genetic architecture of disease, as well as the diagnostic and therapeutic implications of genomic data for a myriad of common and rare inherited conditions using expertise from across SGH/GSTT/SGUL/KCL.
We will explore traditional and current approaches used to identify genetic predisposition to common and rare inherited diseases, focusing on the latter, within the context of clinical diagnostics.
We will learn how to select patients with unmet diagnostic needs that will benefit from exome or whole genome sequencing, and some of the complexities involved in the interpretation of genomic data in the clinical context.
We will also discuss the Genomics England, genomics medicine services and data infrastructure.
Genomics of Neurological Disorders (15 credits) - SGUL
This module explores the contribution of genomics to neurological disorders.
Students will receive refresher sessions focussed on neuroanatomy and the development of the neurological system followed by an introduction to the key diagnostic tools used in neurology.
They will learn about the major neurological disorder categories which have a high genetic contribution.
The module will explore the value of the multidisciplinary team in phenotyping, interpretation of results, management and family communication.
Introduction to Counselling Skills in Genomics (15 credits) - SGUL
This module will provide students with an introduction to general communication skills and specific counselling skills used in genomic medicine.
Students undertaking this module will be taught how to communicate and provide appropriate support to individuals and their families.
Development of counselling skills will be achieved via theoretical and practical sessions through the use of role play within an academic setting.
Students will understand the importance of a family history and communication of pathogenic and/or uncertain results.
Molecular Pathology of Cancer and Application in Cancer Diagnosis, Screening and Treatment (15 credits) - KCL
The module will guide the students from a basic introduction in cancer biology, to comparing molecular and pathological information applied in the diagnosis, classification, treatment of cancer.
We will look at immuno-oncology, early detection, and predisposition of cancer, and the use of molecular data and diagnostics in clinical trials.
In addition, we will introduce basic machine learning methodologies and different molecular technologies of tumour tissue in the context of target identification, and biomarker development to capture their clinical relevance.
Omics Techniques and Technologies; Their Application to Genomic Medicine (15 credits) - KCL
This module explores current genomics techniques used for DNA sequencing (e.g.
targeted approaches, whole exome and whole genome sequencing) and RNA sequencing, using highly parallel methodologies, together with current technologies routinely used to investigate genomic variation in the clinical setting.
This module will introduce the bioinformatics approaches required for the analysis of genomic data.
The module will also cover the use of array-based methodologies and RNA sequencing in estimating levels of protein expression, micro RNAs and long non–coding RNAs.
An introduction to metabolomics and proteomics, which are important for the functional interpretation of genomic data and discovery of disease biomarkers will also be included.
Students will also learn about the strategies employed to evaluate pathogenicity of variants for clinical reporting.
Pharmacogenomics and Stratified Healthcare (15 credits) - KCL
The module will provide an overview of the techniques and analytical strategies used in pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics and explore some of the challenges and limitations in this field.
Moreover, the module will use examples of known, validated pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomic tests, relevant to the use of drug treatments.
Research Project (30 credit option)
This is an ideal option for students taking the MSc part-time and working at the same time.
Students will be undertaking original research and writing it up in the style of a journal review.
They will need to use language, style and formatting of the scientific literature that they have read when it comes to writing up.
The project can be carried out in any appropriate research university or hospital department or industry environment with joint supervision, i.e., supervisors from both the hosting department and the course.
Research Project (60 credit option)
Students will use both the theoretical knowledge they will acquire throughout the taught part of the course and the analytical skills they will develop in order to tackle a research question by themselves.
Undertaking of the research project will involve formulating the question, acquiring and analysing the data and finally presenting and discussing the results.
The project can be carried out in the hosting NHS laboratory, research department and industry under joint supervision i.e.
tutors from both the hosting department and the programme.
Research projects should be presented in the format of a paper for publication (additional figures and tables can be presented as supplementary material).
Spaces on modules are limited and subject to availability.
Early applications for standalone modules are recommended.
We share our site with one of the UK’s largest teaching hospitals giving you the chance to learn in a busy healthcare environment.
Most of our teaching staff have previously worked in genomics across a range of specialist areas, so you will learn from academics, researchers and clinicians with real on-the-job experience.
Studying at a smaller, more specialist university means we’ll get to know you and help you reach your potential.
You’ll be part of interactive group sessions, and our academics are always on hand if you need extra support.
We use a patient-centred approach in our education.
We invite representatives from patient groups or someone who has been through a genetic process to share their experience and what it meant to them.
We teach in blocks of five consecutive working days for each module, most of them in person, with our timetable running from approximately 9.00 - 17.00
How our experts teach depends on the course content, but we recognise that our students have different learning styles.
To support your learning outside of classes we’ve created three non-assessed Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs) .
In preparation for our course, we recommend our students take The Genomics Era: The Future of Genetics in Medicine as it provides a basic grounding in genomics.
The course also offers training and resources on academic and research skills including refreshers in laboratory techniques and academic support for assessments.
The way we assess your learning will change depending on the module, but we use a variety of assessment methods, so every student has a chance to show their knowledge and strengths.
You can expect a mixture of:
To prepare you for the practical challenges you’ll face, we design assessments that reflect real-world scenarios, such as case reviews and research projects.
Your assessments will be formative and summative.
This means some won’t count towards your final grade and you’ll have the chance to improve based on our feedback.
As this is a modular course there is no final exam.
Instead, each module has one or two assessments, most of them running online.
Find out more on our programme specifications .
St George’s has a global reputation in genomics, population health, infection and immunity, and molecular and clinical sciences.
The Genomics Clinical Academic Group is a cross-institutional group that brings together scientists, clinicians, nurses and bioinformaticians all working collaboratively in both research and education.
One of the things students tell us they like most about the course is the experience of our lecturers.
You’ll be taught by experts in drug discovery and genomic testing, as well as clinicians who were involved in the 100,000 Genomes Project.
Previous guest speakers have also included the Head of the South West London Pathology Service and the Head of Genome Analysis and Genomics England.
Genomics is an area of rapid change, with a particular skills shortage in bioinformatics.
We’ve designed this course for recent graduates and healthcare professionals who want to specialise in this field and master genomic technologies for their role.
You might be a researcher or work as a diagnostic and healthcare professional.
Our graduates have gone on to work in clinical diagnostics, clinical trials, the NHS Scientist Training Programme, bioinformatics, and laboratory research.
Others have continued to study further postgraduate programmes or a PhD.
Here are just a few examples of graduate roles and organisations where you’ll find our alumni:
Graduates from St George’s have lifelong access to support from the careers service after graduation.
“I learned laboratory skills, basic bioinformatics, genetic counselling, and ethical reasoning skills; all of which helped boost my profile in medical genetics and made me more confident in applying to PhD positions and to the STP in genomics by the NHS.”
- Diana
PhD candidate at University of Aberdeen
“I really enjoyed my time studying at St George's and I could not recommend it enough.
The MSc prepared me very well for my role as a neurogenetics clinical nurse specialist.
The clinicians, teachers and researchers have been a source of inspiration to pursue genomic medicine.”
- Mark Mencias
Neurogenetics Clinical Nurse Specialist at St George's Hospital
“The course stands out to me because of the curriculum and the structure.
It gave me a holistic experience of studying different aspects of biology and disease vertices.
The research project component helped me develop skills that were necessary to apply for relevant roles in reputed companies and scientific institutes.”
- Aditi
Scientific data associate at Abcam PLC, Cambridge
As this course is taught in partnership with King’s College London, you will also have access to the facilities and support services they offer.
Our laboratories at St George's and King's are fully fitted with equipment to carry out your research project.
We have a full range of services available to support you during your time at St George's.
If you work for the NHS and wish to be considered for NHSE funding, please make this clear on your application.
Once you have created your account, you will be able to complete an application form and upload any relevant documents.
If you are applying to study a module please note the following:
Applications for all modules close one month before the module start date.
If you wish to do more than one module, please use the application link for the module which occurs first.
Please state in your personal statement exactly which modules you wish to do.
Early applications are recommended.
Current students: Students currently studying a Genomic Medicine standalone module at St George's should contact genomics@sgul.ac.uk to enquire into studying further modules.
Please do not use the above links.
They should cover your suitability for the course and your academic ability.
“My favourite part of the Genomic Medicine course was interacting with many different healthcare professionals from a variety of backgrounds such as GPs, nurses, and other allied healthcare workers.
This resulted in an enhanced learning experience, which in combination with the number of modules available within the course, gave me a richer understanding of how genomics is being applied across the NHS.”
- Stephanie
Research Team Leader
“Looking ahead, the MSc in Genomic medicine has helped me understand the advancements in omic technologies, provided direction in my research interests, and given a clear roadmap for integration of genomic techniques into my own medical practice.”
- Fran
Final year MBBS4 student at St George's, University of London
“The module leads and lecturers were so knowledgeable and approachable; the passion for their subjects was obvious.
The modules were very well structured with plenty of resources available; pre-session reading, and activities supported the learning and aided the embedding of knowledge and understanding.”
- Amanda
Paediatric Research Sister
To get the most from your studies, you will need your personal computer or laptop (Windows 10 or macOS) and an internet connection in your home.
Find out more about technology requirements associated with online learning.
You can find a guide about how to do this on macOS, Linux or Microsoft Windows here and the VPN configuration file here .
Personal protective equipment (PPE), if needed, will be provided for you by the University.
If you work for the NHS then you may be eligible for funding from NHS England for up to four taught modules.
If you have any questions related to funding applications, please liaise with Dr George Wardley or visit the Genomics Education Programme website for more information.
*Please note that the three year MSc is not eligible for the Postgraduate Master's Loan.
Senior Lecturer in Molecular Biology at St George’s, University of London
Dr Clara Cieza-Borrella is Senior Lecturer in Molecular Biology and Principal Investigator of the Prostate Cancer Biology Lab at St George's, University of London.
She graduated from University of Salamanca (Spain) with BSc Biology to later complete her master’s in Clinic and Biology of Cancer at the Centro de Investigacion del Cancer (Salamanca).
She obtained her PhD in Molecular Medicine at the University of Salamanca and moved to London to carry out her postdoctoral studies on prostate cancer genetics at the Institute of Cancer Research (ICR, London).
During her time there, Clara specialised in the functional validation of novel genes and variants in prostate cancer and novel technologies.
In 2019, Clara moved to St George's where she started to get involved in the St George's Genomic Medicine course, and in 2021 became the Course Director of the Genomic Medicine MSc.
Clara is also involved in public engagement, especially addressed to children and youth groups as part of her UK STEM Ambassador role.
Talk to Clara about: Genomic medicine, Cancer genetics, 3D Cell culture models, Targeted therapies, Liquid biopsies, Genome editing, and public engagement.
Lecturer in Biomedical Sciences at St George’s, University of London
Dr George Wardley is a Lecturer in Biomedical Sciences at St George's, University of London.
His specialities are the pathology of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and the dynamics of stress granules in health and disease, investigated in animal and cellular models.
He gained a PhD in Clinical Neuroscience at King's College London, and subsequently undertook a position of Teaching Fellow at Queen Mary, University of London before joining St George's.
He is the deputy course director of MSc Genomic Medicine, as well as its admissions tutor.
He is a module lead on the Clinical Neuroscience and Genomics of Neurological Disorders modules, and supervises research project students in Biomedical Sciences.
Senior Lecturer at King's College London
Alan Hodgkinson is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics at King's College London.
He completed a DPhil at the University of Sussex, where he studied the patterns of mutation in the human genome, before undertaking a Postdoctoral Fellowship at the University of Montreal in Canada, where he worked on population and functional genomics within large population cohorts.
His current research focusses on understanding the genetic and molecular mechanisms underlying variation in mitochondrial transcriptional processes across individuals and tissues, and the causal role of mitochondrial genetics in common diseases such as neurodegeneration and cancer.
He is the module lead on the Omics Techniques and Technologies module.
Dr Amanda Fitzpatrick - Omics Module
Clinical Senior Lecturer in Experimental Medicine at King’s College London
Dr Amanda Fitzpatrick MBChB is Clinical Senior Lecturer in Experimental Medicine at King's College London, and an Honorary Medical Oncologist at Guys and St Thomas’ Hospital.
She completed a PhD at the Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) in 2019 investigating the genomics and biology of breast cancer leptomeningeal disease, funded by an MRC Clinical Research Training Fellowship.
Her current research activities focus on central nervous system metastasis from solid tumours, with a particular focus on liquid biopsy, tumour evolution and disease modelling.
Dr Anna Pacholczyk - Ethics Module
Senior Lecturer in Medical Ethics at St George’s, University of London
Dr Anna Pacholczyk is a Senior Lecturer in Medical Ethics at St George’s, University of London.
She specializes in philosophical bioethics and neuroethics.
Her main field of interest is ethics of new technologies in medicine (such as genetic technologies, stem cell therapies and neuro-technologies).
Among other topics, she is interested in the ethics of AI, deep brain stimulation, enhancement, and ethical issues surrounding the use and development of human brain organoids.
She serves as a lead for Medical Ethics and Law for the medical programme, and leads undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in ethics and medicine, including being a module co-lead for postgraduate Genomic Medicine module entitled Ethical, Legal and Social perspectives on Genomic Medicine .
Anna studied cognitive science (BPS Accredited), and after some placement work with patients with dementia, she decided to further study healthcare ethics and law at postgraduate level.
After obtaining her MA and PhD from the Manchester School of Law with the focus in healthcare ethics and bioethics, she worked at the University of Bristol, as well as KCL before moving to a lectureship position at City St George’s, University of London where she currently is a Senior Lecturer in Medical Ethics.
Dr Graeme Hewitt - Pathology of Cancer Module
Leader of the Genome Stability Lab at King’s College London
Dr Graeme Hewitt is the leader of the Genome stability lab King’s College London.
The lab was established with a CRUK CoL Radnet fellowship and is interested in understanding cellular mechanisms of DNA damage repair and how these can be targeted to treat cancer.
The genome stability group utilise functional genomics to pick apart the molecular mechanisms of different DNA repair pathways and the interplay between them.
Currently the lab is focused on understanding vulnerabilities and resistance mechanisms in response to different modalities of radiotherapy.
Graeme has expertise in DNA damage repair, telomere biology, ageing and cancer and methodologies such as whole genome CRISPR screening and live cell imaging.
Graeme is a deputy module lead for the molecular pathology of cancer module on the Genomic Medicine Master’s.
Prof Guy Tear - Fundamentals Module and Research Project
Professor of Molecular Neurobiology at King’s College London
Guy Tear is Professor of Molecular Neurobiology at King’s College London.
He is a geneticist that uses Drosophila as a model organism to understand genetic mechanisms that control establishment of neural circuitry and to gain insights into the normal and pathological function of proteins that contribute to neurodegenerative disease.
Prof Tear has held several educational management positions including Head of Biochemistry (2007-2014 and 2022-2024) and Head of Genetics (2015-2022).
Prof Tear delivers teaching at all educational levels across fifteen modules, he is KCL module lead for the Research Project modules.
His teaching skills are recognised annually by nomination for awards and by his award of a King’s College Education Award in 2022 for Expanding Opportunities.
He completed his PhD in the Genetics Department at Cambridge University investigating the genetic control of early development of the embryo.
He was awarded an EMBO Long Term Fellowship to complete postdoctoral research at the University of California, Berkeley.
Prof Tear returned to the United Kingdom in 1996 as a MRC Senior Research Fellow at Imperial College, London before moving to the Centre for Developmental Neurobiology at King’s College, London as Senior Lecturer in 2000.
He was promoted to Professor of Molecular Neurobiology in 2004.
Harriet McMillan - Counselling Module
Principal Genetic Counsellor in the South West Thames Centre for Genomics
Harriet McMillan is a Principal Genetic Counsellor in the South West Thames Centre for Genomics, based at St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Harriet is part of the rare disease and prenatal team and has a specialist interest in Neurogenetics.
Harriet studied Biology (BSc) at the University of Nottingham.
She completed the 2 year MSc in Genetic Counselling at the University of Manchester with Distinction in 2017.
In 2020 Harriet became a registered member of the Genetic Counsellor Registration Board (GCRB).
The GCRB register has since been transferred to the Academy for Healthcare Science (AHCS).
Harriet spent 5 years working as a Genetic Counsellor in the Manchester Centre for Genomic Medicine before joining the team based at St George’s in 2022.
Prof Jordana Bell - Rare and Common Inherited Diseases Module
Professor in Epigenomics at King's College London
Jordana Bell is a Professor in Epigenomics at King’s College London, UK.
Her research explores the genomic basis of complex traits in human populations, focusing on epigenomic variation.
Jordana’s primary research focus is to understand the processes that shape epigenetic variation in human populations, and its biomedical significance to human ageing and age-related cardio-metabolic disease.
Jordana completed her doctoral studies on genetic interactions in complex traits at the University of Oxford.
She was subsequently a Wellcome Trust funded fellow at the Universities of Chicago and Oxford, where her work shifted to epigenomics.
Since joining King’s in 2012 Jordana has established a research program in human population epigenomics, focusing on twins, and is currently leading research efforts across UK-based and international cohorts and collaborative consortia.
More broadly, her research explores how computation genomics and multi-omics can be applied to help characterize human disease pathophysiology and lead towards stratified treatments.
Dr Kate Everett - Fundamentals Module
Reader in Human Genetics at St George’s, University of London
Dr Kate Everett read Biology at the University of York before moving to Cambridge University to pursue an MPhil in Biological Anthropology.
After a year working in industry, she started her PhD at Cambridge University, funded by Cancer Research UK.
The aim of this work was to elucidate the genetic basis of cutaneous malignant melanoma by using melanocytic naevi as a proxy risk measure.
This was followed by a move to UCL where she stayed for 7 years before moving to St George's in 2010.
Dr Everett's research now focuses primarily on neurogenetics, with an emphasis on identifying the genetic cause of neurodevelopmental disorders.
Since joining St George's in 2010, she has established research links with the clinical genetics team at St George's University Hospital NHS Trust.
Her education portfolio spans many undergraduate and postgraduate courses at St George's.
She has been involved in the MSc Genomic Medicine since it's inception in 2015 and is currently Deputy head of the Graduate School with oversight of all taught postgraduate programmes at the Tooting campus.
Dr Marta Futema - Cardiovascular Module
Lecturer in Cardiovascular Science at St George’s, University of London
Dr Marta Futema is Lecturer in Cardiovascular Science at the Cardiology Research Centre at St George’s, University of London.
Her research overarches genetics, bioinformatics and functional genomics approaches to understand causes of inherited cardiovascular diseases.
She has a strong focus on genetic aetiology of Familial Hypercholesterolaemia (FH), from rare variants to polygenic risk scores.
Her work has had an impact on the UK clinical guidelines on FH, the NICE Guidelines.
Dr Futema qualified in Medical Biotechnology from University of East London, followed by PhD in Cardiovascular Genetics from UCL Genetics Institute, University College London.
She held two postdoctoral positions at UCL before taking up the independent research post at St George’s, in 2021.
She remains as an honorary Senior Research Fellow at UCL.
Dr Futema holds a Fellowship of Advance HE and contributes to postgraduate teaching at City St George’s, UCL and Queen Mary University of London, which includes supervision of PhD students.
She is the module leader for Cardiovascular Genetics and Genomics (MSc Genomic Medicine (SGUL-KCL)).
Dr Mohammad Mahdi Karimi - Bioinformatics, Advanced Bioinformatics and Pathology of Cancer Modules
Senior Lecturer in Bioinformatics at King’s College London
Dr Mohammad Mahdi Karimi holds a B.Sc.
degree in Biomedical Engineering from Tehran Polytechnic (2002), an M.Sc.
degree in Biomedical Engineering from University of Tehran (2004), and a PhD degree in Computing Science from Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, Canada (2009).
He has since served as an MSFHR Research Associate at the University of British Columbia, a Research Scientist at Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, and the Head of Bioinformatics at MRC London Institute of Medical Science, before joining King's.
He is one of the team leaders to develop the Epigenomic Data Coordination Centre for Canada.
His main research interest is to provide visual analytics and machine learning solutions for multi-omics data integration and analysis towards the discovery of diagnostic and therapeutic targets and predictive models for haematological malignancies.
Dr Muriel Holder - Fetal Genomics Module
Consultant Clinical Geneticist at Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust and Medway Maritime Hospital
Dr Muriel Holder is a Consultant Clinical Geneticist at Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust and Medway Maritime Hospital.
She provides private clinical genetics services at the Portland hospital as well as video consultations.
Muriel started working as an NHS consultant in clinical genetics at Guy's hospital in June 2012 and was head of service between 2020 and 2023.
She previously trained and worked in clinical genetics at Lille University Hospital in France as a speciality registrar for four years and as a lecturer for six years.
She graduated from Cochin university in Paris.
She furthered her training at the Necker Hospital in Paris, as well as Great Ormond Street Hospital in London.
She speaks French and English fluently.
She is the clinical genetics representative at the Scientific Advisory Committee and the Co-chair of the Genomics Standing Committee for the Royal College of Obstetric and Gynaecology.
Muriel has wide clinical and academic experience with a PhD and habilitation to supervise research in Clinical Genetics and has played a crucial role in more than 100 publications over the years.
She teaches King’s College London’s students.
She is a Trustee for HF Mencap and has been heavily implicated at JED (a Franco-Belgian Charity) representing the scientific committee’s board for more than 15 years funding research projects in paediatric neurology and ophthalmology.
Her research interests are focused on limb differences, dysmorphology, dermatology and vascular diseases as well as fetal medicine and pre-implantation genetic testing.
In light of this, she has set up a multidisciplinary monthly Clinic for patients with congenital limb differences at St Thomas’ Hospital.
Dr Nayana Lahiri - Genomics of Neurological Disorders Module
Consultant in Clinical Genetics at the SW Thames Centre for Genomic Medicine
I am a Consultant in Clinical Genetics in the SW Thames Centre for Genomic Medicine based at St George's University Hospital and Honorary Senior Lecturer at St George's, University London.
I specialist in Neurogenetics with particular interests in Huntington's Disease and other adult onset neurodegenerative disease and I am a Trustee for the Huntington's Disease Association as well as on the Executive Board of the European Huntington's Disease Network.
I have also developed expertise in the Genomics of Epilepsy and am a visiting Clinical Geneticist to the Epilepsy Genomics Clinic at the ULCH, National Society for Epilepsy.
I work in close collaboration with neurology, neuropsychiatry and other medical professionals and understand some of the challenges in mainstreaming genomics so I am also passionate about multidisciplinary working and improving genomics education to ensure robust diagnoses and clear communication for families affected by genetic disorders.
Dr Panicos Shangaris - Pharmacogenomics and Fetal Genomics Modules
Clinical Senior Lecturer and Consultant in Maternal and Fetal Medicine at King’s College London
Dr Panicos Shangaris graduated from the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland in 2005 and pursued higher specialist training in London at renowned institutions such as University College London (UCL), the Royal Free London, and North Middlesex Hospitals.
He enrolled in a Master's degree program at University College London (UCL), where he received a distinction in Fetal Medicine and Prenatal Genetics.
Opting for deeper academic engagement, he embarked on a PhD at UCL.
Under the supervision of Professor Anna David and Professor Paolo De Coppi, Panicos specialised in treating genetic blood disorders via fetal stem cell transplantation and gene therapy.
Once he earned his PhD, Panicos took up a position as an NIHR Clinical Lecturer at King's College London (KCL).
With a focus on Maternal and Fetal Medicine, he gained clinical experience at institutions such as Guy's and St Thomas' Hospitals and King's College Hospital (KCH).
Panicos currently holds the position of a Clinical Senior Lecturer and Consultant in Maternal and Fetal Medicine at King's College London and King’s College Hospital.
His work has significantly advanced the field of prenatal therapy for sickle cell disease and the immunology of pregnancy.
One of his major projects, the Prenatal Therapy for Sickle Cell Disease (PERICLES) project, focuses on developing and assessing gene-editing technologies and delivery methods in human and mouse fetal hematopoietic stem cells.
This project aims to provide a therapeutic option that could lead to the birth of disease-free individuals, which is particularly transformative for regions where sickle cell disease is prevalent and treatment options are limited.
In addition to his work on sickle cell disease, Panicos is deeply involved in studying the immunology of pregnancy.
His research emphasises the role of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in maintaining a balanced immune environment, which is crucial for successful pregnancy outcomes.
This work is part of his commitment to understanding and enhancing maternal and fetal health through innovative prenatal therapies and immunological studies.
Panicos supervises BSc, MSc, and PhD students and leads new initiatives like the Fetal Genomics module in the MSc program in Genomic Medicine.
His collaborative efforts with noted researchers such as Professors Kypros Nicolaides, John Strouboulis, and Giovanna Lombardi have enriched his work and contributions to the field.
This training includes bespoke education and training, recognising the unique needs of an expert workforce in the genomics era.
Duration: Two years, maximum of four years to complete
Already work in healthcare?
Study our PgCert to explore counselling skills, human genetics, disease and issues in genomics.
Duration: One year, part-time
Study our flexible online course to gain the foundational skills for a career in genomic medicine.
Page last updated 06/08/2025 09:59 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/global-health:
One year full-time, two years part-time
Home fee payers 24 August 2025 | Overseas fee payers 1 July 2025
Climate change.
Non-communicable diseases.
Conflicts.
Unfair healthcare provision.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), solving these urgent health challenges requires a coordinated effort from the global health sector, policymakers, international agencies, and communities.
Could you be part of that solution?
Join us for a thought-provoking course that draws on the research and experience of our experts.
Build the knowledge you need to reduce health inequality, inequity and injustice.
Explore the measures needed to protect communities of the majority and of the marginalised from global threats such as conflict, economic crises and preventable diseases.
If you’re looking to make a real difference in the pursuit of health equity and global justice, we’ll help you better understand global health issues, policy and practices in the 21st century.
Some of our students have recently finished their undergraduate studies, while others already have a career in development, policy, education, research or humanitarian relief.
You might be a policymaker, doctor, or other health professional, but you’ll also fit in if you have an interest in areas like economics, anthropology or philosophy and ethics.
Interested in studying online?
Our flexible online Global Health course can be studied part-time up to PgCert, PgDip and MSc levels.
Global health is a highly interdisciplinary field.
That’s why we’ve designed this course to help you analyse key global health challenges from a wide range of different academic and practical perspectives.
To understand the problems we face today, you’ll also explore historical events and processes.
You’ll examine the socioeconomic and environmental changes and barriers that have created a fresh set of global health challenges.
We’ll also discuss how strong international commitment, coupled with new scientific and technological advances, presents the opportunity to reduce the impact of global health disparities.
Our core and elective modules give you the expertise you need to understand, interpret and help solve critical global health challenges.
Pick from modules exploring vital areas like migration and health, gender and sexuality, transcultural mental health humanities, and more.
If you take the MSc or MRes, we’ll also help you prepare to carry out a high-calibre research project.
This includes providing support in areas such as risk assessment, research methodologies and data analysis.
Past research projects have covered the full spectrum of the discipline – from the assessment of mental health care provision in rural South Africa to an analysis of the narratives of women imprisoned in Afghanistan and Iraq.
“The Global Health course at St George’s is a remarkable opportunity that can inspire you to make a positive impact on the world.
This course explores global health challenges from multiple perspectives, including biomedical, humanities, and ethics.
You gain a deep understanding of the complex health challenges faced by communities across the globe and develop innovative solutions to address them.”
- Olivia Shaw-Lovell
Global Health MSc student
“St George’s has been instrumental in developing my career.
Although the course can be demanding, it is well worth all of the hard work.
It has improved my confidence in my ability, and given me skills and tools that I can use for the rest of my career.
I also met inspiring researchers, academics, and professionals, which I would never of had the opportunity to meet in my normal professional life.”
- Alice McKain
Global Health MSc alumna
“I decided to do my intercalation at St George’s, especially for the MSc in Global Health, because of the specialist pathways available.
I completely recommend it!”
- Fejiro Okagbare
Intercalating Global Health MSc student
We welcome applications from individuals from a range of backgrounds, including humanities, science and healthcare.
You will be expected to have experience of working in global health (e.g.
for non-governmental organisations) and you may be required to submit supplementary details (e.g.
transcripts).
We accept equivalent qualifications gained in other countries and use UKNARIC to assess.
See the ‘Apply’ tab for more information.
The Frontiers in Human Health summer school offers you the opportunity to explore past, present and future approaches to tackling some of the world’s major health challenges.
To achieve the MRes (180 credits) you must complete three compulsory modules and a 120 credit research project.
MRes compulsory modules
To achieve the MSc (180 credits) you must complete the two compulsory modules, choose additional modules from a range of optional modules to the value of 60 credits, and complete a 60 credit research project.
MSc compulsory modules
MSc optional modules
To achieve the Postgraduate Diploma (120 credits) you must complete the two compulsory modules and choose additional modules from a range of optional modules to the value of 60 credits.
PgDip compulsory modules
PgDip optional modules
To achieve the Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits) you must complete two compulsory modules.
PgCert optional modules
Watch the Global Health Webinar from our Postgraduate Virtual Week.
Critical Appraisal (15 credits)
This module prepares students to read and critically appraise literature that reports on studies conducted using various research methodologies.
Global Governance, Ethics and Law (30 credits)
Today all countries, and most especially low-income countries, are threatened by several significant global health challenges.
The effects of globalization and global decision-making on issues that affect health may inform, or sometimes compromise, national health policies, strategies, and plans.
Government leaders must not only address health problems within their borders, but those that come across their borders, for example specific diseases like HIV/AIDS, avian influenza , and Covid-19.
As our understanding of the multiple and wider determinants of health has dramatically expanded, exercising governmental responsibility for the human right to health on behalf of their populations calls for political commitment to the development of a national health policies that go beyond planning for the personal health care system.
It is necessary to consider of political, economic, social, institutional, educational issues, and environment circumstances, among others, from a broader perspective.
In addition, health inequities, and issues concerning access to, and the quality of health and health systems have moved centre stage in policy thinking.
Now globally, nationally, and locally these “goods” are very unequally distributed.
The module will consider the origins and determinants of health in relation to development, and the international architecture, institutions, and mechanisms which for part of global health governance.
It will consider key current issues such as health and foreign policy; health and diplomacy; governance for health and country level including international development assistance for health; and current global mechanism for the control of biological threats to health.
The impacts of locally distributed products which are distributed globally, such as tobacco, alcohol and foodstuffs, and the activities of global businesses such as the global tobacco and pharmaceutical industries, will also be considered.
Issues relating global health governance to ethics and law are increasingly important and discussed.
The module will introduce students to several relevant ethical and politico-philosophical approaches to the topic of global health, as well as the range of international instruments relevant to global health law.
Using concepts and arguments drawn from the fields of political philosophy, moral philosophy, and international law and governance, the module also seeks to develop students’ ability to critically assess ethical and legal issues in global health.
The module will explore the role, functions and effectiveness of global organizations affecting health, such as the United Nations, intergovernmental organizations, NGOs, and the private business sectors, as well as multilateral and bilateral donors, and their interactions with national leadership.
The role of regional and local governments, professionals, civil society, communities, and individuals will also be explored, as well as the impact of the global labour market that lead to movement of health professionals seeking better pay and working conditions from low to higher income countries.
Global Health Diseases (30 credits)
In today’s globalised world there is an urgent need to prioritize global disease management and control according to individual disease burden.
High income countries are predominantly affected by non-communicable diseases (NCD) whereas Low- and Middle-Income Countries suffer from the dual burden of communicable diseases (CD) and NCDs, the latter being on the rise due to rising incomes in some countries and changing lifestyles.
This module will enable students to understand key diseases that contribute significantly to overall mortality and morbidity across the globe.
The core of the module deals with aetiology, pathology, clinical manifestations, prevention and treatment.
Each disease is discussed from a global perspective and addresses different geographical contexts when considering the disease.
Other important aspects such as overviews of epidemiology, surveillance, data gathering and organization, global and national public health initiatives and the major organizations involved in disease control will also be presented.
Research Methods (15 credits)
This module covers research methods appropriate to researchers undertaking projects in areas from biomedical science to health services research.
It is suitable for students registered on postgraduate diploma, MSc, MRes or MPhil/PhD courses which require them to conduct their own research.
This module is compulsory for the MRes and optional for the MSc.
Research Project (MSc 60 credits | MRes 120 credits)
You will conduct an independent research project in an area of interest to you.
Dissertation projects will involve the assembly, analysis and interpretation of data.
The project covers preparation and planning for the research as well as the analysis, discussion and presentation of the outcomes.
You will be supervised by an experienced academic based at the university and, if you complete your research project abroad, will also receive local support.
Previous projects have included a critical literature review of therapeutic mental health interventions in rural South Africa, for example, and a scoping review of how effective water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) interventions are in reducing stunted growth in lower middle income countries of Southeast Asia.
Depending on the amount of credits needed, you will choose from the list of optional modules below.
Comparative Health Systems (15 credits)
The World Health Organization (WHO) defines a health care system as consisting of: ‘ All organizations, people and actions whose primary intent is to promote, restore or maintain health.
This includes efforts to influence determinants of health as well as more direct health-improving activities ’ (WHO:2007).
This is a necessarily simplified definition, but it does point to the complexity of Health System objectives, functions, and infrastructure.
This module will focus on addressing the following series of questions and challenges that directly relate to the comparative analysis of health policy and health systems.
Conflict and Crisis Medicine and Humanitarian Ethics (30 credits)
Humanitarian responses in conflict settings play a pivotal role in addressing health needs that arise directly and indirectly due to the impact of war on health systems and infrastructure.
The nature of a conflict also influences the physical and mental health of the population.
Even though civilians should be protected during conflict, not all conflict settings are examples of armed conflict, and conflict is embedded within a socio-cultural and political context and affects all aspects of everyday life.
We propose this module to address different forms of conflict and to critically examine ethical challenges during times of conflict and humanitarian action.
Humanitarian action must now respond to increasingly complex crises.
Challenges faced by humanitarian workers, when working both nationally and internationally, are impacted by the changing nature of conflict, climate change, and disasters in a globalised world.
In addition, humanitarian organisations are under pressure in terms of their values and roles in volatile political situations especially when they are structured by extreme religious ideology.
The effects of humanitarian crisis are increasingly globalized, as seen in current trends of migration and forced displacement.
Humanitarian health efforts involve cross-cultural endeavours and due to advancements in medical technologies, medical dilemmas are further fraught with ethical challenges.
Human rights frameworks are applied against the backdrop of health injustice and vulnerable populations in conflicts and demand that humanitarian actors undertake roles in truth, peace, reconciliation, and justice efforts.
This module exposes some of the most pressing questions about the fragility of the human condition; responding to human distress in extreme situations means that decisions are not always ideal.
Ethical dilemmas faced by humanitarian health actors will be critically analysed drawing on case scenarios and on examples of their moral experience of the field.
Gender and Sexuality in Global Health (15 credits)
Social scientists, including anthropologists, understand gender as the meanings that society ascribes to particular biological or physical traits associated with being male or female.
This module will explore how gender and sexuality are socially and culturally constructed, and how the ways that gender and sexuality are defined, understood and constrained has significant impact on how people experience their own bodies, identity and health, within their socio-cultural contexts.
It will explore the ways that inequalities are produced and perpetuated by structures of power and explore what this means in relation to the provision of care.
The anthropological lens on gender and sexuality, as well as health, provides a unique perspective on significant imperatives and interventions in the field of global health- to control women’s fertility and sexuality, to prevent and contain the spread of disease epidemics including HIV, and to categorise maleness and femaleness.
Using some key concepts including embodiment, medicalisation, medical pluralism and structural violence, this module will explore some key controversies and challenges related to gender and sexuality in the field of global health.
In each module session, concepts and the process of making meaning will be explored on multiple levels- from the most local and individual, the body, to national and global discourses that shape peoples’ identity, sexuality and wellbeing.
Migration and Health (15 credit)
This module is intended to provide students with an understanding of the growing field of migration and health in a contemporary global context.
This module is designed for students wishing to understand the health needs of diverse migrant communities, the impact that the migration process has on health outcomes, and to explore the health inequalities experienced by some migrant groups, with a specific focus on infection.
The module will explore historical and contemporary global migration trends, theories and models of migration, and specific healthcare needs and priorities.
Students will learn about global health and disease patterns in diverse migrant groups, their risk factors and vulnerabilities, and explore key policies and practices and international protection structures of relevance to migrant health in low- middle- and high-income countries.
The module will explore migrants’ barriers and facilitators to health and vaccination systems, and make students aware of new research to design and deliver innovations to improve the health of these populations in the area of screening, vaccination, mental health, public health communications and data strengthening, and the role of participatory research.
In addition, the course will expose students to a range of key organisations and leaders in the field tasked with improving the health of mobile populations, including speakers from the UK Health Security Agency, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), and Doctors of the World.
The module will provide students with the knowledge and skills to critically analyse and discuss migration as a social determinant of health, providing them with an understanding of the current evidence-base and emerging hot topics in this evolving field.
Transcultural Mental Health Humanities (30 credits)
The module offers a unique opportunity to address global mental health through viewing transcultural psychiatry from a humanities perspective and to challenge the dominance of a western medicalised way of categorising mental disorders.
To achieve this, students will be exposed to different ways of exploring mental health from humanities-based approaches.
Through diverse readings, presentations, film/ documentaries, case scenarios, and seminar discussions, students will be encouraged to consider the relationship between mental health and humanities in global contexts.
To this end, the module offers a conscientious approach to the material such as texts and resources that students will engage with and will have a special focus on storytelling and trauma.
For example, publications or representations of speech/art from exiled writers and narratives from health activists will be studied and critically analysed to critically consider both positive and negative aspects of mental health during adversity and trauma.
The students will reflect and consider areas of mental health that they see as needing (further)recognition in global health discourses, with a heavy focus on nuanced and marginalized voices, and the role of narrative for bringing mental health injustice and human rights abuses to light for various organizations.
The role of narrative in promoting mental health particularly in societies facing conflict, oppression, and lack of mental health care resources will also be analysed.
Students will be asked to become ‘advocates’ for a particular cause that they will argue is of vital importance for those engaging in global mental health.
They will be asked to develop a way of addressing this issue from a humanities perspective, thus enhancing co-created methodologies, and lived experiences into narrative-based theoretical frameworks.
You’ll be taught by staff whose expertise covers ethics, law, philosophy, humanities, communicable and non-communicable diseases, clinical medicine, surgery, environmental epidemiology, social science, and public health.
This includes, for example, an academic specialising in mental health, gender-based violence and conflict, and a veteran public health specialist formerly of the World Health Organization (WHO).
St George’s enjoys a global reputation as experts in population health, infection and immunity, and molecular and clinical sciences thanks to our world-class research.
For the past two centuries, since historical pioneers such as Edward Jenner, whose groundbreaking work contributed to the eradication of smallpox, was based here, we have been at the forefront of developing new and innovative solutions to enhance the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of disease.
More recently, our research has included a focus on tuberculosis, malaria, HIV in low and middle-income countries and Covid-19.
A founder member of the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC), we have been involved for over 25 years in measuring the burden of respiratory disease nationally and globally.
You’ll graduate with the skills you need to make impactful change and positively influence the health of people anywhere in the world.
Careers in global health are often divided into clinical and non-clinical, with opportunities to address issues of public or global health.
Perhaps you’ll apply your expertise to policy development or advocacy.
Or maybe you’ll find a role in community outreach, education or infectious disease management.
You’ll be a good fit for work in leadership, consultancy or research roles in either government or the private sector, as well as national and international agencies, such as WHO, UNICEF or Save the Children.
If you complete the MSc or MRes, you’ll also have practical research-based training and skills putting you in a good position to apply for a PhD.
Some students have also applied to study medicine after graduating.
After our students graduate, they work in a range of organisations including:
Whatever your ambition, we offer tailored career support to help you find a rewarding global health role or excel in your existing career.
Graduates from St George’s have access to lifelong careers support after graduation.
Please note: we reserve the right to close for applications before the published closing date if our application numbers exceed expectation.
Learn more about how to apply for postgraduate courses at St George's.
The following table gives you an indication of additional costs associated with your course.
These costs are not included in your tuition fees.
Study abroad
Tuition fees outlined above do not include costs associated with completing a project abroad.
Technology requirements
You may be eligible for the following.
Reader in Global Health Ethics and Law Head of the Graduate School
Dr Carwyn Hooper has degrees in medicine, philosophy and medical education.
He also holds a PhD in law.
Dr Hooper has worked at St George's for over fifteen years and he has a number of different roles at the university.
He is the Head of the Graduate School, the Head of Section for Humanities, Ethics, Law and Global Health, and the Course Director for the MSc in Global Health and MA in Medical Ethics, Law and Humanities.
He is also the academic co-lead for the MRC funded Doctoral Training Partnership MRC DTP LID between St George's, University of London and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
Dr Hooper is heavily involved in all aspects of teaching, assessment and curriculum development at St George's.
As the Head of the Graduate School he plays a key role in assuring the quality of the postgraduate teaching provision at the university and he is responsible for enabling other academics to create innovative new postgraduate courses.
As a Course Director he is responsible for leading a suite of postgraduate courses and as a module lead he is responsible for organising a range of undergraduate and postgraduate modules.
Dr Hooper’s primary research interests are in global health ethics and public health ethics.
His PhD focused on personal responsibility for health.
He has published on a wide variety of topics including the global regulation of tobacco, the ethical implications of HIV self-testing and the legality of detaining mental health patients.
Senior Lecturer in Global Health
Dr Alison Swartz joined St Georges, University of London in August 2023.
She is a medical anthropologist and one of two deputy course directors for the suite of offerings in Global Health (MSc, MRes, PgCert and PgDip).
She leads several modules including the Research Project, Critical Appraisal, and Gender and Sexuality in Global Health modules.
Alison also co-leads the core module in Global Health Governance, Ethics and Law.
Alison remains affiliated with her alma mater, the University of Cape Town, as a Senior Lecturer in the Division of Social and Behavioural Sciences in the School of Public Health and Family Medicine.
Her research interests include adolescence, sexuality, gender and HIV, as well as qualitative explorations of the experiences of receiving and providing care.
She has worked on a range of qualitative evidence syntheses that have contributed to WHO guidelines on task shifting for lay and community health workers, on abortion services and more recently on social accountability in family planning services.
While much of her research is focused on South Africa and southern Africa, she has also collaborated on projects elsewhere in Africa, south and south East Asia and here in the UK.
Reader in Global Health Humanities
Dr Ayesha Ahmad holds a PhD in medical ethics and works to integrate ethics and the humanities into global health research and pedagogy.
Her research expertise is in transcultural psychiatry and cross-cultural mental health.
She particularly work in contexts of conflict and humanitarian crisis resulting from disasters including environmental change.
Dr Ahmad develops trauma therapeutic interventions using traditional storytelling and has an ongoing research project in Kashmir (India) and Türkiye, in collaboration with Afghanistan, Tunisia, and South Africa, through Shaer Circle .
Dr Ahmad's specialisation is in psychological trauma and the ethical consequences of concepts that are used in mental health.
She has developed both undergraduate and postgraduate courses in culture and mental health.
In her work, Dr Ahmad critically explores the notion of land trauma, as it is juxtaposed with a medicalised and biomedical paradigm of a temporal understanding of post-traumatic stress disorder.
At St Georges University of London, Dr Ahmad has established a Global Health Humanities Hub to bring together scholars and students using humanities-based methodologies to approach and respond to global health inequities and injustice.
Dr Ahmad also works as an Expert Witness providing academic reports on asylum seeker cases related to war, mental health, and gender-based violence.
Dr Angela Donin - Global Health Diseases Module
Lecturer in Epidemiology
Angela Donin is a Lecturer in Epidemiology at St George’s, based in the Population Health Research Institute.
She joined St George’s in 2006 as a researcher to collect dietary assessments in over 2000 primary school children, joining the Child Heart and Health Study England (CHASE) Research Group.
She then applied successfully for a British Heart Foundation PhD studentship and later for a Diabetes UK project grant to investigate dietary associations with early risk markers of chronic disease in children.
Since completing her PhD, she has published over 20 research articles related to ethnicity and health and the dietary determinants of early risk markers in children.
She has been the Principal Investigator for a feasibility randomised controlled trial, funded by the Wellcome Trust, investigating the effectiveness of an intervention to increase cereal fibre in school children.
Alongside her research, she is involved in teaching evidence-based medicine, epidemiology, behavioural medicine and research methods in various courses across the Institution.
She is also Associate Dean for Equality and Diversity Enhancement, involved in many areas of work to ensure EDI practises in research and promote an inclusive and supportive environment at St George’s.
Prof Julia Critchley - Research Methods Module
Professor of Epidemiology
Julia Critchley is a Professor of Epidemiology with 25 years of experience working in cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes (DM) epidemiology and public health.
She has expertise in both explaining disease and risk factor trends and evaluating preventive interventions.
Her current research programme focuses mainly on the association between common chronic and infectious diseases such as DM, CVD and Tuberculosis (TB).
She has evaluated screening for DM in TB patients (FP7 funded TANDEM project), including developing new risk scores, and mathematical modelling of the potential population impact of DM on TB disease.
Her NIH-funded research recently found that CVD incidence is roughly doubled among people being diagnosed with TB disease, even after adjusting for pre-TB CVD risk.
She has recently worked with the World Health Organization to draft update operational guidance for the joint management of TB and DM (in press).
In the UK, her work has identified that 1 in 6 UK infection-related deaths or hospitalisations can be attributed to poor DM control, and that infection is the 3 rd largest cause of death in people living with DM.
Julia has over 200 peer-reviewed publications, many as first or last author in high impact journals.
Dr Richard Alderslade - Global Health Governance, Ethics and Law Module
Senior Clinical Teaching Fellow in Public Health
Richard Alderslade holds the degrees of MA.
BM.
BCh.
(Oxon) and is a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of London (FRCP) and the Faculty of Public Health (FFPH), both in the United Kingdom.
His United Kingdom work included five years working with the UK Medical Civil Service, and ten years working in public health within the National Health Service as a Consultant in Public Health Medicine and Regional Director of Public Health, three years as a manager of community health services, and one year as a Professor of Community Care.
Internationally he worked for eight years in humanitarian public health work with the World Health Organisation’s Regional Office for Europe, four years with the WHO Office at the United Nations in New York, and two years again at the WHO Euroean Regional Office working on a new health policy framework for the Region.
Since 2013 he has been a Senior Teaching Fellow in Public Health at City St George’s University of London.
Prof Sally Hargreaves - Migration and Health Module
Professor of Clinical Public Health
Sally Hargreaves is a Professor of Clinical Public Health and Section Head for Global Health at the Institute for Infection and Immunity at St George’s.
She leads the Migrant Health Research Group, a multi-disciplinary team with a particular focus on vaccination, infection, and strengthening health promotion and screening in migrant populations.
She has 20 years’ experience working in a variety of research, consultancy, and lecturing posts relevant to designing and evaluating complex interventions in healthcare, with a strong focus on participatory research and co-design.
She is a Senior Technical Advisor at the World Health Organization and an Advisor for the UCL- Lancet Commission on Migration and Health European Hub, involved in global and regional dialogue and policymaking around the promotion of Universal Health Coverage and tackling health inequalities in migrant populations.
Dr Sile Molloy - Global Health Diseases Module
Senior Lecturer in Epidemiology
Síle Molloy is a Senior Lecturer in Epidemiology at St George’s, with over 20 years experience in Global Health research.
She holds an MSc in Medical Statistics (London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine) and a PhD in Parasitology (Trinity College Dublin) and holds a Springboard Fellowship with the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS).
Her work focusses on Cryptococcal meningitis (CM) treatment trials and implementation projects which have been conducted across a number of countries in Africa ( ACTA trial, Ambition trial , DREAMM and TRIP projects ).
She is currently co-Chief Investigator (CI) of the EFFECT Trial which aims to improve treatment regimens to prevent the development of cryptococcal meningitis in adults with Advanced HIV in South Africa and Tanzania.
She is also involved in a package of work led by DNDi aiming to develop a sustained-release formulation of flucytosine to simplify inpatient and outpatient treatment of cryptococcal infections (Phase II trials: co-CI for 5FC-PROTECT and co-I for 5FC HIV Crypto ).
Alongside her research, Dr Molloy is involved in co-ordinating and delivering both undergraduate and post graduate modules at CSG and in 2021 she won the Education Excellence Award for curriculum design.
She is an active mentor on the both the AMS and CSGUL mentorship programs and is an Associate Fellow at the Higher Education Academy, UK.
Steve Mannion - Conflict and Crisis Medicine and Humanitarian Ethics Module
Clinical Senior Lecturer in Conflict and Catastrophe Medicine
Orthopaedic surgeon Steve Mannion , MA MChir DTM&H DMCC FRCS (Tr & Orth) RD studied medicine at Downing College, Cambridge.
After graduation Steve combined his specialist surgical training at Guys and St Thomas' Hospitals in London with overseas humanitarian surgical missions with Medecins Sans Frontieres and other agencies to conflicts in Afghanistan, Angola, Cambodia, Ethiopia, Malawi, Rwanda, Sri Lanka, Syria, Ukraine and Turkey.
Since 2003 Steve has been based in the UK as an orthopaedic and trauma consultant in Blackpool and Preston but spends up to 6 months per year overseas, running orthopaedic training and education projects.
He founded the charity "Feet First" to support this work and in 2004 was appointed a Winston Churchill Memorial Fellow in recognition of his projects focussed on the treatment of clubfoot deformity in the developing world.
Steve is a consultant advisor to the overseas disability charity CBM, a lead clinician in the UK response to International Disasters and a former Chairman of World Orthopaedic Concern (UK).
He was a Founding Fellow and Council member of the College of Surgeons of East, Central and Southern Africa (COSECSA), has been awarded Honorary Fellowship of the College and is still a Council Member and Examiner.
In recognition of his work overseas he was appointed Companion of the most distinguished order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in the New Year ’ s Honours List 2025.
Study our flexible online course to explore global health issues, policy and practices in the 21st century.
Duration: MSc 36 months part-time | PgDip 24 months part-time | PgCert 12 months part-time
Discover how ethics and law impact the practice of medicine while exploring past, present and future issues in healthcare.
Duration: One year full-time; two years part-time
Page last updated 27/03/2025 02:20 PM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/medical-ethics-law-and-humanities:
One year full-time; two years part-time
Advanced technology.
Resource distribution pressures.
Demographic changes.
There are always new challenges facing healthcare practice and biomedical research.
Could you help science and medicine adapt and work for the common good?
We’ve designed this degree to give you an overview of the ethics, law and humanities behind science and medicine.
You’ll cover a wide range of topics, from legislation on areas like assisted suicide to the future of medicine and the use of AI.
You’ll also be able to pick from optional specialised modules exploring pressing clinical and global issues.
As well as learning from our leading academics, you’ll hear from professionals who worked or collaborated with national and international organisations.
Recent guest lecturers have included the chair of a clinical ethics committee, a negligence lawyer and an organiser of public consultations for the Human Tissue Authority.
You might be a recent graduate in a related area.
Or a medical student wishing to intercalate.
Perhaps you’re a healthcare professional with an interest in this area or you want to use this degree as a stepping stone into law and further academic work.
We’ll give you the foundations for lifetime training and education in medical ethics, law and the humanities.
Whatever you decide to do next, your insight will help change the way healthcare is practised, regulated, and understood by the public.
Ethics, professionalism and law strongly impact medicine.
Studying with us, you’ll apply analysis of these areas to challenges facing today’s world and healthcare systems.
We’ll introduce you to different methods of medical humanities and how they can be used to look at areas like the doctor-patient relationship and experiences of illness.
At the same time, you’ll explore key ethical and legal issues and underlying concepts in professional practice.
What makes this degree unique?
Our modules look at the current issues in healthcare, as well as the history of medicine and its influence on research today.
We’ll also focus on the future and how technology will transform the healthcare of tomorrow.
Your research project will be the chance to explore an area that interests you.
The ethics of vaccine nationalism, debates around genomics, new medical technologies or the depiction of disease in art are just a few examples.
Because of our diverse expertise, our academics support a range of projects.
Maybe your project will be supervised by a historian who specialises in medicine.
Or perhaps a medical lawyer will be able to share their extensive expertise to bring your research to life.
We accept equivalent qualifications gained in other countries.
Please see our Postgraduate International Equivalencies .
For countries not on this list, we use UK ENIC to assess.
By designing the course as a series of related but independent modules, we can deliver a highly flexible programme allowing you to tailor your studies to match your interests and career aspirations.
You can also accrue the appropriate amount of credits to achieve the intermediate awards of Postgraduate Certificate (PgCert) or Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip), building on each qualification over time to achieve your full master’s degree.
The MA (180 credits) can be studied over one year full-time or two years part-time.
You will study four 15-credit compulsory modules common to all students, which will introduce you to applied reasoning in medical ethics and law ( Medical Ethics and Law ), methods in humanities ( Introduction to Medical Humanities ) and provide a historically grounded and future-looking perspective on medicine and biomedical sciences ( History of Medicine , Future of Medicine Ethics).
In addition, you will choose from a range of optional modules.
When selecting optional modules, you will need to ensure that half the optional modules focus primarily on the humanities and that half the modules focus primarily on ethics and law .
You will also undertake a research project in a topic linked to your themed degree.
The PgDip (120 credits ) is studied in one year full-time.
In addition to the compulsory modules, you must choose additional modules to the value of 60 credits.
Half of these optional modules must focus primarily on the humanities and half must focus primarily on ethics and law.
The PgCert (60 credits) is studied over two years part-time.
Students must complete the four compulsory modules to achieve 60 credits.
Medical Ethics, Law and Humanities MA sample timetable (PDF)
Watch the Medical Ethics, Law and Humanities Webinar from our Postgraduate Virtual Week.
Future of Medicine Ethics (15 credits)
In this module, you will learn how to approach ethics of new medical practices, technologies and developing science, aiming to construct proactive (as opposed to reactive) approaches to ethical analysis and regulation.
Technical advances over the last century tremendously changed the practice of medicine.
This development continues - today’s medicine is being changed by information technology as well as convergence in neuroscience, genetics, data science, AI and robotics.
Cutting-edge science slowly makes its way to the bedside, with recent advances such as IVF, mitochondrial replacement therapy, AI and assistive robots.
How will the practice of biomedicine look like in the future?
How will we be born, live and die in the increasingly information-technological biomedical landscape?
How should medical care look like in the future?
The Future of Medicine Ethics module is a space to examine key trends in the development of medical technologies and associated ethical challenges, as well as develop ethically-informed recommendations for future practice.
History of Medicine (15 credits)
This module will introduce you to the major developments in medical practice and medical thought, as well as the main methodological approaches and debates in the field of medical history.
Founded in 1733, St George’s was the second medical school in England to train doctors, allowing us to draw - where appropriate - on St George’s primary archival and other historical sources.
The module will give a broad introduction to the early western medical tradition but focus principally on the modern period from 1700 to the present, giving an opportunity to think comparatively about the modern construction of the history of a western tradition of medicine and biomedical research.
Introduction to Medical Humanities (15 credits)
The module introduces key skills and approaches which support students in making the most of the other modules, introducing key methods and approaches in medical humanities.
The module will also demonstrate the use of various methodological approaches such as narrative, ethical, philosophical, visual or literary analysis to understand key aspects of healthcare practice and research such as the doctor-patient relationship, experiences of illness, trauma, self, medical treatment and healing.
Medical Ethics and Law (15 credits)
This module explores the ethical and legal issues and underlying concepts in the professional practice of healthcare professionals.
This Medical Ethics and Law module is Core to the MA programme, as the knowledge base and associated ethico-legal reasoning skills are considered to underlie all other course elements.
It is best conceived of as the practical application of moral philosophy to the clinical arena, with critical examination of associated key legal aspects of healthcare practice.
The module covers preparation and planning for the research as well as the analysis, discussion and presentation of the outcomes of the research.
You will be supervised by an experienced academic based at St George’s, and will have a chance to either address a topic of pre-existing interest, or be supported in developing a research idea from conception to fruition.
This will help to develop and apply a range of transferable, professional and analytical skills.
Clinical Ethics and Law (15 credits)
In this module you will look at the ethical, legal and social aspects of clinical practice.
Reflecting on the key concepts that underpin ethical thinking about clinical practice (such as autonomy, paternalism, consent), and discussing ethical and legal dilemmas in clinical practice from the beginning to the end of life provides an opportunity for in depth ethical consideration of clinical practice.
Students will also gain tools for a systematic approach to analysis of ethical cases.
Conflict and Crises Medicine and Humanitarian Ethics (30 credits)
Finding a Leg to Stand On (30 credits)
Using an applied medical humanities’ approach, in which the different Humanities disciplines (philosophy, cultural studies, literary studies, sociology, history of art) and Medicine are used as lenses through which to analyse illness, human experience and clinical practice, this module will take the leg as its primary focus.
The leg, as a tangible example of a component of the body, allows us to explore the ways in which bodies are constructed culturally, clinically, politically and experientially.
The module will explore ideas such as surface and depth, normality and abnormality, presence and loss, visibility and invisibility, beauty and ugliness, illness and health.
It will examine the relations between culture, society, the body and illness.
What does it mean to be and have a body?
How do we speak about and define bodily experience?
What happens when the body fails?
How do we diagnose and treat the body?
Patients and healthcare practitioners might answer these complex questions in very different ways, and yet understandings of those questions underpin medical practice and the experience of patients.
Global Health Governance, Ethics and Law (30 credits)
Government leaders must not only address health problems within their borders, but those that come across their borders, for example specific diseases like HIV/AIDS, avian influenza, and Covid-19.
As our understanding of the multiple determinants of health has dramatically expanded, exercising governmental  responsibility for the human right to health on behalf of their populations calls for political commitment to the development of a national health policies which go beyond planning for the personal health care system.
It is necessary to consider from a broader perspective issues of political, economic, social, institutional, educational, and environment circumstances, among others.
In addition, health inequities, and issues concerning access to, and the quality of, health and health systems have moved centre stage in policy thinking.
Now globally,  nationally, and locally these “goods” are very unequally distributed.
The role of regional and local governments, professionals, civil society, communities, and individuals will also be explored, as well as  the impact of the global labour market that lead to movement of health professionals seeking better pay and working conditions from low to higher income countries.
Imagining the Other (15 credits)
Loss, death and bereavement are three of the most extreme and difficult experiences anyone faces.
For doctors and other health and social care workers these complex phenomena must be confronted on an almost daily basis.
This module uses textual representations of loss, death and bereavement to explore these key issues.
We will examine how far reading literature can help us understand the experiences of others i.e., to what extent and in what way can any of us “imagine the other”.
We will consider these experiences both in terms of the formation of personal identity and in terms of challenges to an established sense of self and the mutability of personal identity over time.
Students will be able to choose from a broad range of literary texts on these themes, complemented by consideration of other art forms, and will compare these to carefully chosen and accessible examples of clinical literature and practice.
Neuroethics (15 credits)
In this module you will look at the last decades of swift developments in neuroscience, cognitive science and neuro-technologies from an ethical perspective, and examine some of the most interesting challenges brought forward by modern medicine.
Since its conception in 2002, neuroethics as a discipline aimed to address ethical and social challenges raised by the recent boom in neuro- and cognitive science and reflect on the impact of neurotechnologies on patients and the society at large.
Brain imaging in clinical practice and research raise issues of privacy, confidentiality and communication of incidental findings.
‘Pictures of the brain’ seem to ‘fire up’ not only neurons of research participants but also viewers’ imagination, and facilitate research on the neural correlates of various cognitive functions, sometimes changing our understanding of what it means to have a ‘free will,’ ‘be responsible’ or even ‘be dead’.
But how clinical and non-clinical applications of neurotechnologies impact our autonomy, agency and are the benefits of scientific research and access to those technologies justly distributed?
Should we engage in cosmetic pharmacology, pharmacological mood brightening or cognitive enhancement?
During the module students will engage with those problems, and gain ethical reasoning tools, concepts and perspectives necessary to address those current questions.
Research Ethics and Law (15 credits)
While scientists enjoy generally high level of public trust, a reflective and engaged approach to ethics in research is necessary for science that aims to deliver public good, scientific knowledge and medical advances.
In this module, you will focus on ethical and regulatory aspect of biomedical research.
You will gain understanding of the history and rationale for research regulation, reflect on the purpose, role and limitations of our regulatory practices and learn about relevant law, regulation and philosophy.
By understanding and critically examining key philosophical and ethical aspects of research ethics and regulation, you will also have an opportunity to engage with current issues affecting scientific and medical research.
Key moral theories, concepts and approaches used in research ethics will provide a methods toolkit for this important area of analysis.
The module offers a unique opportunity to address global mental health through   viewing transcultural psychiatry from a humanities perspective and to challenge the dominance of a western medicalised way of categorising mental disorders.
Read more information about our courses and university services terms and conditions
Lectures are just one of the ways we teach.
You can also expect lots of interactive sessions.
These might be workshops where you carry out case analyses or discussions about challenges in ethics.
Throughout the course, we’ll help you become confident learning independently too.
This will be important for when you carry out your research project and focus on an area that interests you.
Your learning will be assessed in a range of different ways.
As well as written tasks like essays or reports, you’ll deliver presentations and create a reflective analysis of a piece of art, podcast or another form of media.
St George’s is home to experts in medical ethics, law, and the humanities, as well as global health.
You’ll learn from academics carrying out key research, as well as practitioners from St George’s Hospital and guest lecturers.
Our researchers are exploring a range of healthcare challenges from HIV and mental health to issues around justice and economic marginalisation in community health.
You’ll also meet academics who focus on areas like secure hospital care for inpatients, as well as criminal lawyers who look at reproductive ethics.
We’re exploring how humanities can be used to foster creativity in medicine.
Our Open Spaces events programme is an evolving extra-curricular programme bringing together science, medicine and healthcare with the arts, humanities and enterprise.
By the end of this course, you’ll be able to analyse, appraise and address ethical, legal and social challenges in medicine and biomedical research.
Clinicians might use this degree to secure roles leading ethics education at medical schools, as a stepping stone to further training or to prepare to carry out projects involving public engagement.
If you’re not from a clinical background, you’ll be a great match for roles in policy forums, science journalism and public engagement.
Other students decide to use this degree to support their PhD applications and carry out vital research in this area.
With expertise in ethics, law and humanities, you’ll be a great fit for roles in a range of organisations:
Find out more about technology requirements .
Once you have created your account, you will then be able to complete an application form and upload any relevant documents.
Please also make sure that the information you provide is accurate, including the options you select in menus.
When you have checked that your application is complete and accurate, click ‘submit’
Senior Lecturer in Medical Ethics at St George's, University of London.
She specializes in bioethics and neuroethics.
Her main fields of interest are ethics of brain and neuroscience research and related medicine.
Among other topics, she is interested in the ethics of AI, invasive brain stimulation, enhancement, ethics and genetics/genomics and ethical issues surrounding the use and development of human cerebral organoids.
She serves as a lead for Medical Ethics and Law for the medical programme, and leads undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in ethics and medicine, future of medicine and genomic medicine.
After obtaining her MA and PhD from the Manchester School of Law with the focus in healthcare ethics and bioethics, she worked at the University of Bristol, as well as KCL before moving to a lectureship position at St George’s, University of London where she currently is a Senior Lecturer in Medical Ethics.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/sports-cardiology:
September 2025
The only programme of its kind in the UK and Europe , our MSc is taught by world-leading experts from the Centre for Inherited Cardiovascular Conditions and Sports Cardiology at St George’s NHS Foundation Trust – one of the UK’s top multidisciplinary clinics dedicated to sudden cardiac death prevention and one of few centres globally specialising in sports cardiology.
Our course directors are the leading sports cardiologists in the UK and consultants to the charity Cardiac Risk in the Young (CRY), English Institute of Sport, English and Wales Cricket Board and the Rugby Football Union.
Professor Sanjay Sharma is also the Medical Director for the London Marathon and consultant to the football association and the British Lawn Tennis Association.
Professor Michael Papadakis is the president of the European section of Sports Cardiology and Exercise of the European Association of Preventative Cardiology (EAPC).
As well as their unrivalled expertise and cutting-edge research, you’ll benefit from the team’s global connections.
This brings opportunities to hear direct from international experts, evaluate several hundred patients with heart disease, and screen young people and top-level athletes, which has previously included footballers from Premier League teams such as Chelsea and Tottenham, the England rugby squad and the British Olympic squad.
Course overview
Sudden cardiac death is the leading medical cause of death in athletes and sadly at least 12 apparently fit young people die in the UK each week from an underlying, undiagnosed heart condition.
Around 80% of these individuals have no prior symptoms and therefore cardiac screening is the only way to determine if they are carrying a hereditary heart defect.
A rapidly evolving subspecialty in cardiology, more sports cardiologists are needed to work with patients – especially athletes – to monitor, check for risk of and prevent cardiac complications.
This is done by assessing family history, medical background and conduct tests such as echocardiogram (ECG) or measuring the heart rhythm during exercise.
This course will be of interest to a broad range of physicians and allied health professionals wishing to learn more about sports cardiology and inherited cardiac conditions, including cardiac physiologists, cardiac physiotherapists, nurses and sports scientists.
This course may be suitable for highly motivated medical students with the opportunity to register for an intercalated MSc.
It offers a unique opportunity to gain a comprehensive range of expertise in sports cardiology, including cardiovascular evaluation, cardiac screening, cardiac rehabilitation and exercise prescription and the management of athletes and individuals with heart disease.
Specialist optional modules allow you to tailor your study to match your interests, for example, in emergency response planning in sport arenas or interpretation of genetic testing in inherited cardiac conditions.
You will also cement your practical skills for the evaluation of athletes of different demographics and sporting disciplines, as well as healthy sedentary young individuals and patients with heart disease.
You will be taught (and most likely inspired) by our highly respected, world-leading experts in the field of sports cardiology based at the St George’s renowned Centre for Inherited Cardiovascular Conditions and Sports Cardiology.
Since opening in 2010 with support from CRY, the Centre has helped shape the future for cardiac screening in young people with thousands of screening tests conducted by our students.
Teaching is delivered in collaboration with an internationally renowned consortium, giving you access to expertise limited to only a few centers around the world.
The active involvement of key figures from sporting organisations facilitates innovative educational projects, enhancing your practical experience and cultivating your leadership skills.
St George’s, University of London is a university dedicated to medical and health sciences education, training and research.
We share our site with a major London teaching hospital which is both on the clinical frontline for a diverse local community and a center of excellence for specialist conditions.
“I worked in general cardiology, screening football teams in São Paulo and in the Rio Olympic games as a volunteer doctor, and wanted to learn more about sports cardiology.
Dr Papadakis and Professor Sharma were a huge influence in choosing St George’s because they are experts in this area.
It also helps to have the hospital here; we do the clinics and I have all the access to patients.”
- Clea, Sports Cardiology MSc alumna
Find out more about postgraduate study at St George’s, University of London by registering for our introductory email series.
You should have or be expected to achieve, a minimum of a second class degree (2:2) in a life science subject.
All degrees must be awarded before 1 August on the year of entry for September start.
It is highly desirable for applicants to have practical experience in a healthcare role.
Please note, we require all students to have a basic competency with the interpretation of the 12-lead ECG.
For individuals who do not have experience of ECG interpretation, cannot provide evidence, or wish to refresh their ECG skills, an ECG course offered by St George’s will be available close to the commencement of the course.
We may invite you to interview if we are unable to make a decision directly from your application.
We accept equivalent qualifications gained in other countries and use to assess.
This is a Group 2 course.
You will be asked to outline your reasons for applying for the course in a brief personal statement.
This must be completed on the subject-specific personal statement form located on the ‘Apply’ tab.
Please upload this when completing your application form.
Research shows that those who participate in sport, on average, live six years longer than those who do not.
Sports and regular exercise has countless beneficial effects on a number of conditions, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, depression and heart disease.
On this course, core modules will help you understand the effects of exercise on the cardiovascular system and the impact of exercise on individuals with heart disease; from coronary artery disease most commonly associated with middle aged adults, to some of the more uncommon heart conditions, ranging from arrhythmias to structural abnormalities such as cardiomyopathies.
The goals is not to tell people to avoid sport, but to understand how we can best monitor athletes and those who want to safely participate in exercise to reduce the risks presented by undiagnosed heart conditions.
Referring to real-life cases and dealing with patients in clinic, you will discover how lifestyle modifications, pharmaceutical remedies and surgical options can allow a continuation of a relatively active lifestyle even for those with inherited or congenital heart defects.
The full-time MSc will normally be completed over one year or part-time over two years.
To qualify for the award of Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip), you must complete all core modules (excluding the research project) and two option modules.
For the award of Postgraduate Certificate (PgCert), students are required to complete four modules.
Lectures and tutorials are typically delivered on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, leaving Wednesday free for self-study.
Our wide range of specialist modules can also be studied individually as part of Continuous Personal and Professional Development (CPPD) however, practice modules must be studied with their corresponding theory module.
Modules throughout the course may include the below core and optional modules.
Please note modules listed here are indicative and the actual modules available may vary when you enrol.
Watch the Sports Cardiology webinar from our virtual postgraduate event.
Sports Cardiology MSc sample timetable (PDF)
Cardiovascular Anatomy and Physiology (15 credits)
Students will explore cardiovascular anatomy and physiology, including knowledge of cellular and molecular mechanisms.
They will study the interaction between the cardiovascular and respiratory systems during exercise and the impact of different sports and training regimes on the cardiovascular system.
Students will appraise the long-term impact of exercise on the cardiovascular system and how this is influenced by demographic factors, disease processes and performance enhancing substances.
They will report on the impact of exercising under extreme environmental conditions as well as the notion of overtraining.
Cardiac Rehabilitation (15 credits)
This module is designed to enable students to develop the knowledge, skills and competencies to organise, manage and deliver Cardiac Rehabilitation programmes within a hospital or community setting.
The module will provide special focus to rehabilitation of athletes or individuals with cardiac disorders who wish to return to exercise and work and learn to manage their condition and deal with activities of daily living.
The module will be based on the European guidelines for cardiac rehabilitation, which promote evidence-based practice for individuals who have had a known cardiac event.
Students will be equipped with knowledge of aspects of cardiac disease, be exposed to the multi-disciplinary nature of effective cardiac rehabilitation services and learn to modify rehabilitation programmes for athletes and older people with cardiac disease.
Principles of Cardiovascular Evaluation of Athletes (15 credits)
This module provides students with comprehensive knowledge of the principles of cardiovascular evaluation of athletes and athletic and non-athletic individuals with suspected cardiac disease.
Students will gain in depth understanding of how to differentiate between physiological adaptation to exercise and phenotypes of cardiac disease.
Students will explore the indications and interpretation of a number of investigative modalities including, 12-lead ECG, ECG monitor, signal averaged ECG, exercise ECG and cardiopulmonary exercise testing, echocardiography, cardiac MRI, CT coronary angiography and drug provocation testing.
In addition, students will gain an appreciation of the value and challenges of genetic testing and potential implications for the athlete.
Finally, students will critically appraise current recommendations relating to sport participation of individuals with inherited, congenital and acquired cardiac conditions.
Practice of Cardiovascular Evaluation of Atheletes (15 credits)
This module provides students with comprehensive practical experience on the cardiovascular evaluation of athletic and non-athletic individuals with suspected cardiac disease.
Students will gain in depth understanding of how to evaluate athletes within different clinical scenarios and how to differentiate between physiological adaptation to exercise and phenotypes of cardiac disease.
In addition, students will gain an understanding of the value and challenges of genetic testing and potential implications for the athlete.
Finally, students will gain an understanding of current recommendations relating to sport participation of individuals with inherited, congenital and acquired cardiac conditions.
Principles of Cardiovascular Screening (15 credits)
In this module students will gain insight into phenotypes, investigative modalities and management of cardiac conditions predisposing young individuals to sudden cardiac death.
They will appraise different primary and secondary prevention measures with particular emphasis on pre-participation cardiovascular screening.
Students will explore different perspectives and practices around the globe.
They will critically appraise the potential benefits and risks of a widespread screening programme and its application in different populations.
They will evaluate the advantages and limitations of different screening modalities, including the psychological impact of screening and associated ethical and legal considerations.
Practice of Cardiovascular Screening (15 credits)
In this module students will have the opportunity to gain first-hand experience of cardiac screening of various populations including: elite athletes; amateur athletes; master athletes; school children who exercise; and sedentary individuals.
Students will critically appraise the advantages and limitations of different screening modalities and gain competencies in performing cardiovascular screening in order to prevent acute cardiovascular events and potential worsening of cardiovascular disease.
Students will analyse the logistical, financial, ethical and medico-legal challenges of organizing a screening programme.
Finally, students will gain an appreciation of the psychological, ethical and legal considerations associated with the disqualification of athletes with heart disease from competitive sport.
This module starts by addressing the question ‘what is research?’ and goes on to look at a wide range of quantitative and qualitative research study designs and approaches and their advantages and disadvantages.
There is a strong emphasis on good research practice, designing studies using tools and approaches to minimise bias and maximise scientific rigour.
This is augmented by establishing the mechanisms of collecting quantitative and qualitative data.
There will also be a lecture on writing a research protocol as preparation for the module assignment.
This module is optional if you hold another postgraduate degree (MSc, PhD).
Research Project/Thesis (60 credits)
MSc students will select and research an in-depth topic on a subject/issue of their choice, with supervision from our expert staff and the possibility for additional external supervision.
Previous students have, for example, researched the composition of coronary artery disease in older athletes, the prevalence and impact of arrhythmias in older athletes, and the impact of exercise on the adolescent footballer’s heart and aorta.
They have implemented and assessed the impact of resuscitation training in schoolchildren and even created a national screening programme for cardiac conditions in high schools in Malta.
Emergency Response Planning (15 credits)
In this module students will review current recommendations from scientific and sporting bodies regarding safety measures in sport arenas as well as outdoors competitions in city streets, open water and motor sports.
They will gain insight into the current state of safety measures in sport facilities around Europe, and will critically appraise evidence supporting the use of automated external defibrillators.
Students will have the opportunity to listen to organisers (medical directors, team doctors) of mass events who will provide them with first-hand experience of the challenges of ensuring the safety of athletes and spectators in such events.
Advanced Management and Genomics of Inherited Cardiac Conditions (15 credits)
This module builds on the knowledge provided in the Principles of Cardiovascular Screening module where students gained insight into phenotypes, investigative modalities and management of cardiac conditions predisposing young individuals to sudden cardiac death.
This module will provide students with a systematic approach to assess complex, disease-specific, issues related to inherited cardiac conditions and formulate appropriate management plans.
Students will also gain insight in cardiac genetics and genomics and will evaluate the role of genetic testing in the setting of an inherited cardiac conditions clinic and Sports Cardiology.
Students will assess the need for genetic testing, evaluate potential ethical, medicolegal and clinical implications and gain insight into the interpretation of the results.
Ethical, Legal and Social Issues in Applied Genomics (15 credits)
Counselling Skills in Genomics (15 credits)
Traditional teaching is delivered through a variety of methods such as lectures, course-specific seminars and small group sessions.
You will also participate in self-directed study and wider reading, as well as individual and group practical sessions.
This is a highly practical and interactive course where you will have the opportunity to review hundreds of real-life cases and their investigations, including ECGs, echocardiograms, exercise tests and cardiopulmonary exercise tests, ECG monitors, cardiac MRIs and more advanced cardiac investigations.
You’ll have access to state-of-the-art equipment used by cardiac physiologists, such as ECG, echocardiography, cardiopulmonary exercise machines and cardiac MRIs.
You’ll learn how to treat young patients and top-level athletes, which has previously included footballers from Premier League teams such as Chelsea and Tottenham, the England rugby squad and the British Olympic squad.
One of the things students tell us they like most about and often attracted them to the course is the world class knowledge and expertise of our lecturers.
Professor Sharma and Dr Papadakis have been integral to the publication of the European curriculum of Sports Cardiology, the international ECG criteria for an athlete’s evaluation and the recently published 2020 European Society of Cardiology Guidelines on Sports Cardiology and Exercise in Patients with Cardiovascular Disease, which will be used to guide physicians for the next decade.
Your learning draws on their excellent connections in the sporting world, which ranges from guest lectures to panels of experts from different sporting disciplines discussing topics as diverse as their experiences of organising screening for athletes or the contrasting approaches to finance within organised sport.
Relating what you are learning to real events and activities, where possible, you’ll also visit sports clubs to speak to team doctors about how sports planning works.
On the emergency response planning module, for example, you will hear direct from those involved in organising major events like the London Marathon, triathlons and road cycling races with the possibility of acting as part of the medical team in one of those events.
We encourage our students to publish assignments consider to be of the highest quality.
You will also be invited to write book chapters, review articles and publish your original research.
Progress throughout the course will be assessed through a variety of methods, including literature review, essays, case reports, presentations, data analysis and your research project.
The growth in the number of competitive athletes, the drive for preventive medicine and a healthier lifestyle and the rising population of amateur athletes – with 2.5 million marathon runs per year in Europe alone – has led to an increase in the need for cardiologists with an in-depth knowledge of sports cardiology.
Sports cardiologists evaluate a wide range of individuals, including young athletes (with symptoms or as part of cardiac screening), athletes with inherited cardiac conditions, older recreational athletes with coronary artery disease and individuals who simply want to take up exercise as part of improving their general wellbeing.
The lack of dedicated training means that, currently, physicians with no formal training in sports cardiology perform the majority of these evaluations.
Given the complexities of the field, individuals with limited knowledge and experience are likely to resort to numerous, costly and often redundant investigations, which has huge implications for health services around the world.
In the professional sporting world, such practice has the potential for causing delays in an athlete’s clearance for competition, unwarranted anxiety and potentially false disqualification.
Our Sports Cardiology MSc aims to address the lack of structured training in the field and enhance the qualifications of physicians, physiologists, physiotherapists, nurses and sports scientists who are committed to training in cardiology, sports medicine or exercise physiology by providing them with a unique degree and highly sought-after set of skills.
Our long-standing collaboration with major sporting bodies, clubs and charitable organisations and the participation of key figures from the industry offers the chance to network and explore the prospect of potential employers.
You will gain a good understanding of the needs of such organisations and receive career advice from potential employers.
Successful completion of our master’s courses will set you apart from the competition and provide you with unique employment opportunities within national health systems, sporting organisations and charitable organisations dedicated to sport and prevention of sudden cardiac death.
Whether you are interested in a career within the NHS or elsewhere, our MSc will provide you with the skills and qualifications in the field of Sports Cardiology and inherited cardiac conditions to rise above the competition.
It will equip you with knowledge to evaluate a wide range of individuals, from high-level, elite athletes, to older recreational athletes at risk of coronary artery disease and individuals with or without heart disease who wish to take up exercise as part of improving their general wellbeing.
The Anatomy Suite is where present and future healthcare professionals and scientists in the hospital and University learn or expand on their anatomy knowledge directly from the human body.
We give students access to high-quality anatomy resources including:
You will need to complete the Personal Statement Form above and upload it to the personal statement section of your application.
Please make sure you complete all sections, and that the information you provide is accurate.
Develop expertise in diagnostics, treatment, and research to become a leader in heart failure care.
Duration: Two years part-time
Page last updated 06/08/2025 10:02 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/postgraduate-scholarships/great-scholarship:
The GREAT Scholarship 2025 programme, launched by the British Council together with over 70 UK universities, supports postgraduate students from around the world to access world-class UK higher education opportunities.
The scholarship programme offers financial support of a minimum of £10,000 to students pursuing one-year postgraduate study in the UK.
For more information on the GREAT Scholarship 2025, please visit Study UK .
In partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign, City St George’s University of London is offering 1 scholarship to students in India applying for postgraduate courses.
We are offering a total of 1 scholarship of £10,000 to students from India:
Please note: you must be a passport holder of India to apply for this scholarship.
If you are a passport holder of India applying for a taught postgraduate Master’s course as listed above, you will be automatically considered for the scholarship, provided you submit your course application by the deadline below.
Deadline for application to course to be considered for GREAT Scholarship: 1 May 2025.
For example, if your Master’s fee is £24,000 and the scholarship amount is £10,000 - then your tuition fee will be reduced to £14,000.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/postgraduate-scholarships/testimonials/sedji-basoah-acolatse:
Sedji Basoah-Acolatse is a recipient of the Physician Associate Studies scholarship.
I had heard that there is no better place to train to be a PA (Physician Associate) than at the School of Health and Medical Sciences but initially I was nervous.
I was worried that Covid-19 would mean minimal lecturer contact time, isolated learning and limited bonding with other course mates.
As a social person, I have been pleasantly surprised.
The course so far has been the right blend of virtual learning, clinical teaching and pro-active tutor support.
As expected the course is intense, fast paced and intellectually rigorous: I have had just enough time to catch my breath!
But, staff have been supportive, empathetic and inclusive.
I feel every effort is being made to ensure nobody is left behind.
Despite social distancing, I have made new friends; and together, we are mastering new content and new skills.
Obtaining a scholarship has made this world class experience more affordable.
My decision to study here was the right one and I am looking forward to discovering what the rest of the course entails.
— Sedji Basoah-Acolatse, recipient of the Physician Associate Studies scholarship
Read about what you'll learn on the UK’s longest running Physician Associate studies programme.
Find out what makes us such a unique institution, and learn more about our programmes.
Find out more about City St George's
Learn more about fees and funding for our courses

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/postgraduate-scholarships/testimonials/rachel-mahony:
"The scholarship has meant that I can pursue a future career to become a coroner and this course has enabled me to bridge the gap between my humanities background and my limited science background."
Rachel Mahony is a recipient of the Postgraduate Scholarship for Global Health.
She is currently undertaking the Global Health, Ethics and Law MSc.
I am a criminal barrister and I have an interest in medical ethics hence why I joined the course.
I did medical law and ethics in my undergraduate law degree and I thought this course would be suitable for me as a result.
I have also been in the military reserves and the course has a conflict and catastrophe module which I am interested in as a result of my experience.
I have been in a Medical Regiment and also an Engineer Unit in my time in the reserves and lots of the elements of the course appealed to me, both from the legal side and the medical and military side.
I have also done some work with the NHS over the Covid-19 pandemic at St George's Hospital and Barts Hospital in London.
I have been very impressed with the lecturers and it has been a very interesting course, mixing my humanities background with science insight into global issues of health and disease.
There is huge range of experience within the cohort of students - doctors, nurses, NGO workers add to the variety and interesting discussions on the course.
There are also students who have worked in those areas affected by conflict and natural disasters.
I have been impressed with how the lecturers have brought the subjects to life with the depth and breadth of their experience and expertise.
The scholarship has meant that I can pursue a future career to become a coroner and this course has enabled me to bridge the gap between my humanities background and my limited science background.
I am very grateful to the School of Health and Medical Sciences for my scholarship as I hope to move forward in my career and benefit wider society with the skills I have developed on this course.
— Rachel Mahony, recipient of the Postgraduate Scholarship for Global Health
This Global Health MSc is a broad-ranging practical and clinical course that covers many different aspects of global health practice and policy.
This stimulating and vibrant programme will give you the skills and knowledge necessary to understand, interpret and help solve critical global health challenges.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/postgraduate-scholarships/testimonials/tran-thi-kieu-oanh:
"Receiving a postgraduate scholarship from the School of Health and Medical Sciences, not only helped reduce financal pressure but also encouraged me to be more confident to pursue my ambitions and go further in the academic field."
Tran Thi Kieu Oanh is a recipient of the Postgraduate Scholarship for Biomedical Science - Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer MRes at the School of Health and Medical Sciences.
The course Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer gave me the exact things that I was looking for to start my journey of doing research.
Despite the difficulties which the Covid-19 pandemic has been bringing to us, all classes moved online but are still very interesting and interactive.
I really appreciate the massive efforts that all of my teachers and the assistants at St George's have been making to help us get through this tough period.
Receiving a postgraduate scholarship not only helped reduce financal pressure but also encouraged me to be more confident to pursue my ambitions and go further in the academic field.
We all know you will be more and more successful when you believe in yourself.
— Tran Thi Kieu Oanh, Biomedical Science – Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer MRes scholarship recipient
This course will provide you with the skills, knowledge and experience for a rewarding career in biomedical science or to progress on to a fulfilling research degree such as a PhD.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-breast-practice:
MSc three years, part-time | PgCert one year, part-time
24 August 2025 | Module deadlines vary
Blended - online, Jarvis Centre Guildford and City St George's Tooting campus
College of Radiographers
The Advanced Breast Practice MSc provides the opportunity and support for Mammographers to develop into the role of Consultant Mammographers and Advanced Practitioners.
Breast Clinicians and Specialist Breast Care Nurses are also supported by our modules to continue developing their clinical skills and standalone modules are also available.
The contemporary and evidence-based nature of the course structure reflects current workforce development needs and training requirements within Mammography and Advanced Breast Practice.
Take advantage of the expertise and training resources available through our teaching partners at the Jarvis Breast Screening Centre in Guildford (InHealth).
This partnership allows us to offer students access to the excellent joint teaching, support and clinical facilities across both institutions.
Our modules combine the necessary clinical and academic skills required to support your development and help you build the knowledge and competencies required to not only succeed on the programme but also continue your development in the future.
The skills you will gain will support your ongoing clinical development and will provide excellent grounding for your future and current research interests, your clinical skills and for wider roles in the profession, inclusive of practice education and mentorship.
For specific enquiries please contact Matthew Foster mfoster@sgul.ac.uk.
Training to become a Mammographer and work within the National Health Service Breast Screening Programme?
You may be interested in our Professional Practice in Mammography PgCert .
The MSc comprises 180 credits and can be studied over three years as a part time student, full time study is not available.
Core modules are supported by a menu of optional modules, enabling the tailoring of your programme to your bespoke professional and clinical skills requirements.
You will undertake a research project linked to the theme of your degree and be supported with a preparatory research methods module.
As well as full programme’s of study we offer the opportunity to undertake individual 30 credit modules, suiting your continuing professional development and advanced practice.
Watch the Advanced Breast Practice MSc webinar from our virtual postgraduate event.
Module start dates 2025/6:
Research and evidence based practice in healthcare (30 credits)
The module is designed to foster an understanding of the research process, hone skills of critical appraisal and develop research skills as applied to both quantitative and qualitative research.
The delivery follows a logical progression which starts with the scientific process and hypothesis formulation and ends with the production of a research protocol.
Along the way reviewing the literature, selecting an appropriate research method, sampling, data collection analysis and presentation and ethical issues are covered.
The module has preparatory work, a taught component and self-directed learning/assignment time.
Dissertation (60 credits)
This module builds upon the principles outlined and knowledge acquired during the Research and Evidence Based Practice in Healthcare module.
It provides the component beyond postgraduate diploma to enable the completion of a Masters degree.
Professionals are consistently expected to be able to provide an evidence base to prove the effectiveness of their professional interventions.
This module provides students with the experience of utilising all principles of research design.
Following submission and approval of a dissertation proposal the student is provided with a project supervisor to facilitate support for both the project and dissemination material.
The students will be required to undertake an independent piece of research study into a topic relevant to their own field.
The aim of the module is to develop in-depth theoretical, analytical and research skills.
Advanced Principles and Practice of Breast Interventional Techniques (30 credits)
This module provides the foundation for both the academic and clinical components of a variety of breast interventions, either using x-ray or ultrasound guidance.
It is then followed by 12 months of leaning in a professional environment within healthcare.
This is a very student centred module in that each student designs their own learning outcomes, in addition to those given in the module descriptor.
The enables them to personalise the outcome to their scope of practice of interventional methods, within the breast screening unit or imaging department.
Clinical Breast Examination and Client Communication (30 credits)
This module is designed to provide the foundation for understanding and relating all of the key processes involved in breast diagnosis.
It includes 6 months of learning in a professional environment within healthcare.
This develops and extends the participants’ clinical expertise necessary to contribute to the multidisciplinary approach to the diagnosis of breast disease.
It will facilitate the participants’ decision making skills based on a broad appreciation of the tools and techniques that underpin the diagnosis of breast abnormalities and incorporates both academic and clinical components.
The module will also facilitate and enhance the necessary development and application of the participant’s communication, counselling and interpersonal skills, and will include interactive participatory learning.
Interpretation and Reporting in Mammography (30 credits)
This module provides the understanding of all key process’ involved in ‘reading’ breast images, including 9 months of learning in a professional environment within healthcare.
This module is designed for health care professionals, such as breast clinicians or Radiographers who wish to perform as advanced practitioners.
It is related to the image interpretation of screening mammograms, detecting and identifying and abnormalities, classifying those possible abnormalities, and the making a decision on the likely probabilities whether to recall the woman for further clinical assessment.
The module assessment components consist of evaluating clinical skills, self-analysis and academic skills of essay writing on an associated topic.
Ultrasound of the Breast (30 credits)
This module is designed to provide the understanding and knowledge involved in breast diagnosis.
This is followed by 6 months of learning in a professional environment within healthcare.
This module is designed to provide the academic and clinical components to enable students to fulfil their role in reviewing current application and uses of ultrasound to detect and evaluate breast abnormalities and then to interpret and report on findings.
It will facilitate the participants’ decision making skills based on a broad appreciation of the equipment available and scanning techniques that underpin the diagnosis of breast abnormalities.
The module also focuses on the necessary physical processes underlying safe ultrasound practice.
Practice Education and Mentorship (30 credits)
This module is of value to the practitioners who educate and mentor learners within the clinical setting.
The module focuses on developing appropriate knowledge and skills in order to effectively facilitate the development of others.
Throughout the module students draw upon their clinical experiences and relate these to the theoretical frameworks.
The module places emphasis on the development of self, through personal development planning.
Throughout the module participants engage with a wide range of learning activities which augment learning and act as a foundation for reflection.
Satisfactory completion of this module confers eligibility for accreditation under the College of Radiographers Practice Educators Accreditation Scheme (PEAS).
Applicants also need:
The University is unable to offer clinical placements for the MSc Advanced Breast Practice course or its stand alone modules, appropriate clinical access must be confirmed by the applicant prior to commencing study.
You should have or be expected to achieve, a relevant healthcare qualification at, or above, an undergraduate honours degree level (Level 6).
Please note this programme is currently only available to Home students , or international students who meet the entry requirements, including employment within the UK .
One of these should be a recent academic reference and the other should be either a second academic reference or a professional/employer reference.
For those unable to provide an academic referee a second professional/employer reference will be permitted.
This course is delivered by St George’s University of London section of Diagnostic Radiography in collaboration with the Jarvis Breast Screening Centre (InHealth), Guildford.
This means you benefit from the experience and facilities of multiple complementary institutions.
St George's, University of London combines teaching and research excellence in areas directly applicable to healthcare sciences and has a long established reputation for high-quality, vocationally relevant education.
The combination of academics and expert practitioners gives the programme a uniquely dynamic environment in which to further your studies and your career.
We also have strong links with the NHS, education and other healthcare providers and services.
We offer classic postgraduate programmes alongside research and continuing professional development (CPD) opportunities.
A wide range of supportive assessment methods are utilised to help you demonstrate your newly developed knowledge and skills.
For those undertaking the MSc, assessments are designed to help you with preparation for your dissertation, supporting your skills in critiquing published work, experimental design, data collection and analysis.
All advanced practice and PgCert modules are assessed through a combination of written assignments, procedure logbooks and clinical examinations.
With St George’s, University of London you have access to excellent resources from a dedicated health care education institution.
This is in conjunction with our multiple collaborative partner training sites at the Rose Breast Education Centre and the Jarvis Breast Screening Centre.
You will also have access to online resources, such as the CANVAS virtual learning environment and our Hunter discovery service to help you find the information you need.
The library is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and comprises silent, quiet and group learning areas.
St George's, University of London has five computer suites, housing 260 workstations.
Free Wi-Fi covers the whole campus.
You can use these resources to access you course materials, alongside your access from home.
If you require reasonable adjustments or disability services you can find information on our disability information for students pages.
Our MSc and individual breast screening modules will support a wider variety of professional development requirements, from those wishing to undertake single advanced practice modules (Mammographers, Breast Clinicians, Specialist Nurses) to Mammographers training for Consultant roles.
Please note applicants holding a Tier 2 visa, and with evidencable appropriate access to practice with patients of the NHS Breast Screening Programme, will be eligible for ‘Home’ fees (above) despite being assessed as an Overseas student for visa purposes.
Select the relevant application link from the following options and create an account:
To apply for a module, please see further guidance in the Applying for a module section below.
Postgraduate Mammography modules 2025/26:
Applications for all modules close one month before the start date.
Please state clearly in your personal statement which module you wish to do.
Current students: Students currently studying a mammography standalone module at St George's should contact postgraduateradiography@sgul.ac.uk to enquire into studying further modules.
One must be a recent professional/employer reference.
The other should be either an academic reference or a second professional/employer reference.
Gain the training to become a Mammographer and work within the National Health Service Breast Screening Programme.
Page last updated 06/08/2025 09:44 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/advanced-clinical-practice:
MSc: Three years part-time | PgDip: Two years part-time
Advanced Clinical Practice - 25 July 2025 | Independent & Supplementary Prescribing module 24 August and 7 December 2025
Accredited by NHS England
Advanced Clinical Practice - 9 September 2025 | Independent & Supplementary Prescribing module - 11 September 2025 and 8 January 2026
Advanced Clinical Practice (ACP) is a level of practice that involves autonomy and decision-making, carried out by highly-experienced registered health practitioners.
It is underpinned by Health Education England’s four pillars: clinical practice, leadership and management, education and research.
Our innovative portfolio of multi-professional ACP modules are aimed at experienced healthcare practitioners from diverse professional backgrounds who wish to expand their role and advance their level of practice towards Advanced Clinical Practitioner status.
This course is best suited to practitioners whose employer has agreed to support their development to ACP level in a specified role.
Five different pathways are available: Generic, Critical Care, Mental Health, Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice or Urgent and Emergency Care.
The degree title you are awarded will depend on your pathway.
For example, if you complete the Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice pathway, you will receive an MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice) qualification
Our ACP course meets all the requirements set out within Health Education England’s Multi-Professional Framework for Advanced Clinical Practice in England (HEE, 2017), and is accredited by NHS England.
“I signed up to the MSc thinking I would learn a lot of clinical skills but soon realised that advanced practice is more than clinical skills - it's a new way to approach things.
The lecturers are very approachable and empathetic to the work-life balance that the course demands.
It has been challenging for me at times but the course material and seeing its direct application at work has kept me going.
This course has made it possible for me to move into a new role where I am enjoying trying the new skills while growing the service.”
- Ritu Karlekar
Advanced Clinical Practice MSc student
“There is a very personal feel to the Advanced Clinical Practice (ACP) course, with lots of interaction and support from faculty in all the modules.
The other students are also very friendly.
I did not know any other students from beforehand but I quickly realised I could sit anywhere in the classroom.
Everyone was really friendly and inclusive.”
- Carl Christiansen
“I am a registered nurse doing my MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (ACP) pathway at St George’s.
This course has allowed me to gain a deeper understanding of the role of an ACP and honed my skills and knowledge to become a more well-rounded person which will aid me in the future, practicing as an ACP.”
- Tsering Chodon
To complete the Advanced Clinical Practice (ACP) course, students require:
Typically, students undertake 60 credits per year.
We stagger the start dates of modules to help students balance work and life commitments with the course.
All students on the ACP course must take 105 credits of core modules focused on the pillars of education, research, and leadership.
For the MSc, the remaining 75 credits will come from our portfolio of elective modules and will vary depending on your chosen pathway.
Some pathways have more flexibility than others and students work with their pathway lead to determine the best choice of modules for their own clinical practice.
All students on all pathways of the MSc ACP participate in professional practice days.
There is one professional practice day each term for the three years of the course.
These sessions are aimed to help professional development of students as they transition into their roles as advanced practitioners and give an opportunity for students to work together in a multi-professional setting.
You may also be interested in our Clinical Practice PgCert .
Advanced Clinical Practice 2025-26 Timetable (PDF)
Each pathway for the MSc and PgDip has common core modules and elective modules.
The core modules will develop your knowledge of the four pillars: leadership, research, and supervision and education.
Each pathway has different core clinical modules allowing you to pick the best pathway for your future career as an ACP.
Each of the pathways allows the option of taking the independent and supplementary prescribing module (HCPC accredited).
ACP Pathway Modules and Timetables (PDF)
The generic ACP pathway is suitable for practitioners from all professional disciplines and allows students to choose a variety of optional modules from our portfolio of elective modules.
This approach enables you to meet the Health Education England (HEE) multi-professional ACP standards across the four pillars of advanced clinical practice with a personalised focus that enables you to advance your own disciplinary and service-related knowledge and skills.
We recognise that traditional MSK Master's courses have provided a comprehensive Advanced MSK clinical curriculum which is highly valued.
In keeping with these expectations, our new Musculoskeletal Pathway aligns with IFOMPT Educational Standards, the UK MSK Advanced Practice Standards and the NHS England Advanced MSK Capabilities Framework, meaning that successful students will be accredited Advanced MSK Practitioners.
The taught MSK modules will enable students to develop in-depth, contemporary, and evidence-based knowledge of neuro-musculoskeletal conditions and disorders, and how to apply this critically in practice.
Evidence based advanced level assessment, neuro-musculoskeletal management, and multi-modal management (behaviour change, psychologically informed practice, exercise therapy, manual therapy, etc) will be taught and critically discussed.
This will be underpinned by advanced multi-layered clinical reasoning skills and framed within biopsychosocial and person-centred philosophies of care.
Students will develop the skills required to operate in Advanced MSK clinical roles (e.g., advanced rehabilitation, trauma & orthopaedics, rheumatology, pain, sports and exercise medicine, and MSK interface/FCP services, etc) as well as MSK therapy roles at an advanced level (e.g., physiotherapy, osteopathy, podiatry, and occupational therapy services, etc).
Please read the City St George's Advanced MSK Practice MSc info sheet (PDF) and Funding info for CSGUL MSK MSc (PDF) for further information.
This pathway is primarily intended for healthcare professionals who are working in a critical care setting at an enhanced or advanced practitioner level.
This most commonly applies to autonomous critical care paramedic/HEMS paramedic roles, but all applicants will be considered.
Modules are designed to extend the clinician's understanding of both out-of-hospital and in-hospital assessment and management of critical illness and injury.
Those completing the package will develop a holistic perspective of the patient journey from scene to discharge with deepened understanding of cutting-edge change whilst they develop as advanced practitioners.
This pathway is primarily intended for healthcare professionals who are working in a mental health setting at an enhanced or advanced practitioner level.
Modules are designed to extend the clinician's understanding of both out-of-hospital and in-hospital assessment and management of mental health conditions.
Those completing the pathway will develop a holistic perspective of the mental health patient journey.
Students completing this pathway will be awarded an MSc ACP Mental Health.
This pathway is intended for practitioners who work in settings that predominately deal with acute, undifferentiated urgent and emergency care presentations.
It may suit other professionals who work in autonomous roles who assess and manage patients with undifferentiated diagnoses.
The assessment, early management, referral and navigation through urgent and emergency care services forms part of the capstone module, where students are required to demonstrate high quality, clinical decision making in acute settings.
Pathways available for the Advanced Clinical Practice MSc:
Pathways available for the Advanced Clinical Practice PgDip:
Our modules typically run one or two days per week, with additional self-directed study time managed by you and negotiated with your employer where required (e.g.
for project work or supervised practice).
Some modules are run entirely in person at St George’s, while others are hybrid with a mix of remote and in person sessions.
Advanced Clinical Practice 2024-25 Timetable (PDF).
Advancing Clinical Education and Supervision (15 credits)
This core module is designed to give you a comprehensive foundation in clinical pedagogy, practice education and approaches to continuing professional development.
It will support your development as an advanced clinical practitioner.
It draws on contemporary research, opinion, and wider pedagogic and professional development theory to equip you with the knowledge and skills that underpin effective practice education.
These include approaches to education, clinical, managerial and leadership supervision within and across traditional professional boundaries.
The focus on professional learning provides a foundation for your wider advancing practice development.
You will have opportunities to learn with and from colleagues, including membership of multi-professional learning sets and pathway-specific tutorials which enable you to plan and contextualise learning within your clinical specialty.
Advanced Clinical Reasoning in Health Assessment: Lifespan Perspective (30 credits)
This is a core module that provides in-depth knowledge to develop your critical thinking in complex health environments.
It will enhance your ability to respond efficiently to the rapidly changing health landscape and will allow you to make balanced clinical decisions when formulating differential diagnoses, based on systematic patient assessment.
The module also provokes thinking about a personalised care strategy when managing health conditions and the wider population needs that impact on health services.
The educational delivery and ethos of this module emphasises and builds on autonomous self-directed learning for independent practice.
This module requires 50 hours of clinical placement in a General Practice setting or an area where you can evaluate and assess patients with a clinical supervisor.
Students are responsible for arranging these placement hours at their workplace or elsewhere.
Please contact the course director if you have questions about the placement hour requirements or if you may have difficulty arranging these hours.
Evidence-Informed Quality Improvement in Advanced Practice (30 credits)
On this module you will lead, design, and deliver a small-scale, practice-based quality improvement project in your practice field, using the quality improvement project proposal you have learnt about in the Leadership in Advanced Clinical Practice module.
You will consider establishing baseline measures, selecting relevant quality improvement methodologies, and evaluation.
You will produce a written project report which includes the rationale for your initiative, the methods and evaluation adopted, analysis and discussion of the outcomes achieved, and a reflection on what you have learnt from the project.
Improvement and Implementation Science: Principles for Practice (15 credits)
This module is designed to introduce you to a relatively new and expanding science that is bringing about quality improvements and enhancing patient safety by encouraging more effective use of research evidence within practice.
It draws on theory and practice from a broad range of other professional disciplines, such as sociology, management, behavioural psychology, science and technology.
You will be encouraged to critically explore a range of strategies to support the integration of research findings with practice, considering this within the context of an ever-changing working environment and policy landscape.
Throughout the module you will engage with a wide range of learning activities that aim to develop both knowledge and skills, offering practical insight into how to make best use of resources and evidence, and helping you to effectively implement ideas within the context of your own professional practice.
Leadership in Advanced Clinical Practice (15 credits)
This module is designed to give you a comprehensive foundation in clinical leadership, which will support your ongoing development as a leader in advanced clinical practice.
It draws on contemporary research, opinion and wider leadership theory to equip you with the knowledge and skills that underpin effective clinical leadership, including approaches to operational and strategic service configuration and quality improvement within and across traditional professional and operational boundaries.
Opportunities to learn with, and from, colleagues include membership of multi-professional learning sets and pathway-specific tutorials for you to plan and contextualise learning within your clinical specialty.
This course is accredited by the Centre for Advancing Practice.
Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice 1 (15 credits)
This module will begin your journey into Advanced MSK Practice.
Traditional understandings of musculoskeletal health will be dissected, debated and reframed within a biopsychosocial context to consider all factors which may impact MSK health across different levels of organisation; from cellular, to individual, and social levels.
In keeping with this, core principles of musculoskeletal function and health will be presented to include current concepts the impact of modern life on MSK health, health inequalities, population health, pain neuroscience, foundational psychology: theories of cognition, emotion and behaviour, as well as other related personal, familial, cultural, environmental and societal factors.
Students will be taught to incorporate these considerations within a high-level of advanced clinical reasoning and perform expert level assessment and holistic, person-centred management of people with both acute and chronic MSK conditions.
We have designed this module in collaboration with our Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice Steering Committee which is made up of 17 practicing MSK Therapy Consultants, and representatives from the MACP, IFOMPT, Royal College of Podiatry, and the Association of Trauma and Orthopaedic Physiotherapists, as well as based on feedback from several Advanced MSK Practice Masters alumni from four different universities.
Based on these collaboration, this module is aimed at providing the core underpinning principles required to maximise your impact in the delivery of Advanced Musculoskeletal healthcare.
This module is compulsory for students on the musculoskeletal pathway.
Advanced MSK Practice lead: Michael Dunn
Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice 2 (15 credits)
This module has four separate routes: Advanced MSK Outpatient Physiotherapy, Advanced Podiatry, Advanced Major Trauma and T&O Therapy, and Advanced Hand Therapy.
This module will consolidate your journey into Advanced MSK Practice.
The core principles of Advanced MSK Practice 1 will now be applied in your individual area of clinical MSK practice, enabling you to apply the in-depth, diverse and dynamic MSK theory covered in Advanced MSK 1 and integrate this knowledge with your specific area of MSK practice.
An evidence-based overview of assessment and management of acute and chronic MSK disorders will be critically discussed.
This module will cover a comprehensive practical, hands-on curriculum to ensure you master the manual skill required to excel in your area of practice.
This module is compulsory for students on the Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice pathway.
Advanced MSK Outpatient Physiotherapy
This module was designed in collaboration with 9 MSK Outpatient Physiotherapy Consultants within our Advanced MSK Practice Steering Committee, as well as based on feedback from alumni of Advanced MSK Physiotherapy Masters programmes from four different universities.
The module is delivered by a blended faculty of academics and practicing Advanced and Consultant level MSK Physiotherapists.
This module covers a traditional curriculum including an evidence-based overview of lower and upper quadrant disorders, their pathophysiology, clinical assessment and management, but provides a contemporary lens by weaving the core principles of Advanced MSK Practice 1 throughout the teaching to ensure you receive an Advanced MSK Practice education that provides you with all the key skills to maximise the impact of your healthcare delivery.
Students will learn how to conduct an Advanced level assessment including subjective assessment, physical examination and when to consider further assessment such as referring for bloods and imaging.
Students will also learn advanced level multi-modal MSK biopsychosocial management including behaviour change, psychologically informed practice, exercise rehabilitation, and manual therapy, with consideration for further management options such as pharmacotherapy, soft-tissue and joint injections, and referring for surgical opinions.
Advanced Podiatry, Advanced Major Trauma and T&O Therapy, and Advanced Hand Therapy
We are collaborating with our key stakeholders to finalise the curriculums for our other Advanced MSK Practice routes.
Please contact our Advanced MSK Lead if you wish to register your interest for Advanced Podiatry, Advanced Major Trauma and T&O Therapy, or Advanced Hand Therapy.
Advanced Mental Health Practice: Intersectional Interventions (15 credits)
Mental health is a core healthcare priority.
This module prepares health and social care professionals with advanced knowledge of specific patient demographics in mental health, exploring not only clinical relevance, but the importance of equity in patient care.
The module will explore intersectionality and the role of the clinician in patient advocacy and promoting inclusive practice.
This module requires 75 hours of clinical practice hours in a variety of mental health settings.
Students will work with the module lead to arrange placements.
This is a core module in the MSc ACP (Mental Health) pathway.
Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice 3: Clinical Placement (15 credits)
This module will finalise your journey into Advanced MSK Practice.
In keeping with the core frameworks for Advanced MSK Practice Capabilities (IFOMPT, NHS England, and UK MSK Advanced Practice), students must complete a 150-hour workplace-based supervised clinical placement.
Students will undertake their placement in an NHS MSK outpatient clinical setting under the clinical supervision of an MSK AP supervisor from our list of approved providers, ensuring the learning environment is suitable for AP trainees.
Students will assess and treat patients with MSK conditions under the supervision and scrutiny of the AP supervisor with appropriate time for discussion, reflection and self-directed learning whilst on placement to ensure the student has the opportunity to develop and demonstrate MSK AP capabilities in line with the Frameworks.
This module is essential for transition into Advanced MSK Practice roles and therefore is strongly encouraged for all students in the MSK Pathway.
This module is compulsory for students who wish to become accredited MSK Advanced Practitioners.
If this is not a requirement then students may forego the Clinical Placement and choose an optional module instead.
Advanced Practice in Urgent & Emergency Care (15 credits)
This module will help you develop advanced skills in assessment, reasoning and early management planning for patients presenting with undifferentiated acute injuries or illnesses, or acute exacerbations of chronic conditions, in an urgent or emergency setting.
It will focus on the effective assessment, referral, safeguarding and health promotion of a range of vulnerable or complex patient groups through the network of urgent and emergency care services in the UK.
The module is compulsory for students on the Urgent and Emergency Care pathway.
Pre-requisites for this module include: Minor Injuries, Minor Illness, D&PDGs or equivalent.
Advanced Practice: Management of Minor Illness (15 credits)
This module is designed for healthcare practitioners working towards advanced roles in primary care and community settings.
It offers you the opportunity to evaluate the key challenges underpinning NHS targets within the field of hospital avoidance and ambulatory care.
This module requires 75 hours of clinical placement in a setting where you can evaluate and assess patients with minor illnesses with a clinical supervisor.
Advanced Practice: Management of Minor Injuries (15 credits)
This module is for healthcare professionals, such as nurses or paramedics, wishing to develop knowledge and skills in managing minor injuries in children and adults.
It is intended to develop your practice through the efficient use of resources and enable you to manage patients presenting to urgent and primary care settings with minor injuries.
This module requires 50 hours of clinical placement in a setting where you can evaluate and assess patients with minor injuries with a clinical supervisor.
Advanced Risk Assessment and Person-Centred Interventions (15 credits)
This module prepares health and social care professionals with professional capabilities and advanced mental health assessment clinical skills to make evidence based clinical decisions to manage risk and complexity.
The module seeks to promote person centred approaches within mental health practice, and confidence and proficiency in the development of the therapeutic alliance.
This is a core module in the MSc ACP (Mental health) pathway.
Applying Pain Principles (15 credits)
The focus of this module is to advance your application of the current concepts of pain, enabling you to manage patients’ pain and to participate in life situations.
Pain is considered a multidimensional experience, understanding it requires an in-depth knowledge of pain neuroscience and potential contributing factors which can be psychological, social or cultural.
Through undertaking this module, you will develop their skills to evaluate and debate the literature around pain neuroscience and pain drivers.
This will enable you to develop a critical approach to assessing an individual’s pain drivers and to create appropriate treatment plans in collaboration with individuals who are experiencing pain.
At the foundation to this is adopting cognitive behavioural principles and an advanced communication approach.
Through debate and interactive tutorials you will reflect on you own and societal beliefs about pain and how your communication can influence an individual’s understanding and management of pain.
Botulinum Toxin Injections for Spasticity Management (15 credits)
Botulinum toxin type A (Botox, Dysport, Xeomin) blocks the release of a neurotransmitter known as acetylcholine from nerve cells.
Acetylcholine normally transmits nerve impulses to muscle cells, causing them to contract.
Without acetylcholine, the affected nerve is unable to send a signal to the muscle it supplies, resulting in a weakened or paralysed muscle.
The effect of Botox injections is restricted to the area being treated.
This module has been specifically designed to enable appropriate health professionals to undertake injection therapy using botulinum toxin for the management of patients/clients with limb spasticity or dystonia regardless of the form of botulinum toxin used in their trust.
Learners will be supported in developing their skills and techniques in clinical reasoning, injection administration and after care to provide a comprehensive management approach.
This module is designed as an option module or a stand-alone module for qualified healthcare professionals such as physiotherapists, occupational therapists, doctors and nurses working in the field of Botulinum Toxin.
The module aims to introduce students to the theory and practice of injection therapy as well as to develop their ability to clinically reason and integrate the use of injection therapy as part of their management of patients/clients with neurological dysfunction.
The module consists of two main components.
The first component will introduce students to the theory and practice associated with the use of injection therapy and the second component will be a period of mentored practice in the clinical environment.
Cardio-Neuro Care in Prehospital Critical Care (15 credits)
The module will enable you to explore the theory and practice of managing key cardiovascular and neurological diseases in the prehospital setting.
The particular emphasis will be on the recognition and referral to specialist services for these two major disease groups.
Contemporary Issues in Healthcare Practice (15 credits)
This module will introduce students to key concepts in the social sciences of health and medicine.
Recognising the contribution of medical anthropology and sociology to the understanding and practices of health service delivery, this course will provide an accessible entry point for students with no social sciences background.
It aims to cover key ideas and debates around power, knowledge, normal versus pathological, the personal and professional, linking them back to everyday clinical practice.
On completion of the module students should be able to engage with relevant social sciences literature and critically analyse its application to practice.
Students will learn to employ a ‘sociological perspective’ to better understand and contextualise the social processes that shape health, illness, and medicine.
They will e develop a range of skills to achieve this such as independent learning, reflexive practice, critical thinking and reasoning skills.
They will have had the chance to practice them, developing and refuting complex arguments and maintaining informed position on social issues.
Throughout the course, participants will be encouraged to reflect on the consequences of their learning for clinical practice, and be given opportunities to consider the wider impacts of their learning.
The result should help students to be more deliberative practitioners in encounters with patients, colleagues, and health systems, adding to their capacity to practice with professionalism and accountability.
Drug and Patient Group Directions (15 credits)
This module will explore the science behind medicine management and consider the safe practice of administration of medicines under PGDs in different clinical settings.
It is intended for clinical practitioners from a range of backgrounds who are administering medicines to patients in a range of settings.
It is compulsory for those without a recognised non-medical prescribing qualification and who are not taking the non-medical prescribing module as part of their ACP studies.
The module will serve as a foundation for aspiring future prescribers.
Essentials of Enhanced Mental Health Practice (15 credits)
This module prepares health and social care professionals with advanced knowledge of the biopsychosocial contexts of mental health, and equips practitioners with skills and capabilities to make informed clinical decisions surrounding the enhanced assessment, evaluation and management of people living with mental health conditions.
It is suitable for healthcare professionals working in out of hospital environments.
This module will prepare healthcare practitioners to meet the capabilities outlined under the four pillars emphasised in the Advanced Clinical Practitioner (ACP) Framework (NHS England, 2017).
This module aims to increase practitioner confidence and knowledge in the advanced identification, assessment and management of people with mental health conditions.
Interprofessional Diabetes Course for Healthcare Professionals (15 credits)
The prime aim of this module is to provide practitioners from different specialities and with the knowledge and competencies to manage, maintain, treat and/or transfer patients with diabetes to the appropriate tier of care.
The outcomes will include improved personal confidence, more effective referral in the tiered structure of diabetes care, appropriate collaboration and engagement with the specialist team(s) and intelligent use new therapies.
This module is offered through St George's short courses and ACP students may take this module along with other healthcare professionals.
Introduction to Medical Imaging (15 credits)
This module is designed to give you a foundational understanding of concepts of image generation, safety considerations and the knowledge to identify common pathological conditions.
The module draws on contemporary imaging practice and guidance from the Royal College of Radiologists.
It provides you with opportunities to learn with and from colleagues in multiprofessional learning sets and pathway-specific tutorials so you can  plan  and  contextualise  learning  within  their  own  clinical specialty.
Patient Safety and Clinical Human Factors (15 credits)
This module introduces health and social care professionals to the subject of human factors in a healthcare setting and allows them to gain a greater understanding of human limitations.
By acknowledging these limitations, this module offers ways to minimise and mitigate human frailties and improve patient safety.
The emphasis of the module is to offer an evidenced-based and coherent approach to patient safety and clinical excellence.
Human factors, often referred to as ergonomics, is an established scientific discipline used in other safety critical industries.
The principles and practices taught on this module will optimise human performance, through better understanding the behaviour of individuals, their interactions with each other and with their environment.
Portfolio of Professional Practice (15 credits)
This module is designed to enable students to demonstrate that they have acquired the skills and knowledge to practice as a First Contact Practitioner (FCP).
It incorporates the concepts of academic, professional and personal development required for an FCP.
It encourages students to further develop their ability to critically reflect and enhance their role.
It facilitates the integration and use of skills, knowledge and attitudes learned in other modules for their FCP.
Students are required to produce a portfolio that evidences meeting the FCP capabilities.
This portfolio can be reused, adapted and refined throughout an entire career as a Clinical Practitioner.
This module is required for the PgCert FCP (Paramedic) and FCP (Musculoskeletal) pathways.
This module requires 75 hours of clinical placement in a setting where you can evaluate and assess patients as an FCP.
Principles of Critical Care (30 credits)
This module is intended for health care professionals who are working in or towards a specialist or advanced role in prehospital critical care.
The module will enable you to explore the theory and practice of critical care in the prehospital setting.
This module requires approximately 100 hours of clinical placement in a AE, theatres, and/or ICU where you can evaluate and assess patients.
Principles of Palliative Care (15 credits)
This module is aimed at health professionals who work with patients at the end of life in non-specialist palliative settings.
In this module you will learn the knowledge, skills and capabilities to make key clinical decisions through effective assessment, diagnosis and management.
Throughout the module students will develop the advanced communication skills necessary to manage difficult situations at the end of life.
The module will introduce the organisational, policy and legislative frameworks governing palliative care in the UK.
Emphasis will be placed on developing deep critical reflective skills which enable students to integrate the clinical, ethical and legal concerns common in managing end-of-life patients.
Students will be supported to recognise and effectively respond to the personal impact of challenging situations.
Psychology for Behavioural Change (15 credits)
This module will examine the psychology of behaviour and you will develop an in-depth understanding of psychological correlates, psychological well-being and psychological interventions pertaining to healthcare.
From this module, you will critically develop an advanced knowledge of the sociological and psychological concepts that inform human behaviour in a healthcare context.
You will also foster a knowledge and critique of the implementation of advanced communication skills within a therapeutic relationship and will allow participants to draw on their own practice as a focus.
Remote Consultations (15 credits)
The module provides healthcare professionals with authentic opportunities to explore autonomous practice in the context of undertaking a comprehensive holistic, structured clinical assessment of the patient using remote/digital technology.
The module delivery and assessment are remote, allowing you to put your skills to practice immediately.
Soft Tissue and Joint Injection Therapy (15 credits)
This module aims to enable students to extend their scope of practice to include the use of injection therapy.
Teaching will include injection techniques.
This module is designed to enable you to use injection therapy as part of your expanded advanced musculoskeletal practice.
Systems Approach to Error in Healthcare (30 credits)
This module focuses on a branch of human factors that is based on the systems approach and considers the higher-level factors including organizational, societal, political, regulatory and economical context of work activities and processes.
This macro view proposes that adverse events in healthcare are rarely the result of individual error and effective healthcare results from interactions in a sociotechnical system, of which the person is one component.
By undertaking this module, students will gain a greater understanding of the causes of error within healthcare systems and be better informed to make effective interventions to prevent reoccurrence.
This module will prepare healthcare practitioners to comprehend the different approaches to the investigation of errors in both simple and complex systems.
The learner will be able to apply a range of system-based tools to effectively understand the causes of healthcare errors and find solutions to prevent reoccurrence.
Transition to Advanced Practice (15 credits)
Transition to Advanced practice is a portfolio module designed to prepare you for advanced practice through work-based learning.
This module requires 575 placement hours with the development of a portfolio and reflective essays.
Trauma: Initial Assessment and Management (15 credits)
This module is designed for practitioners directly involved in the emergency care of polytrauma patients.
A range of traumatic injuries will be explored, but the focus will be upon initial assessment and management of these patients in the context of the emergency department.
Independent/Supplementary Prescribing Module (HCPC) (30 credits)
This standalone Independent and Supplementary Prescribing module is suitable for Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) registrants from the professions, which are approved to become prescribers.
The module focuses on developing the pharmacology knowledge base and physical examination with history taking that underpins supplementary and independent prescribing, as well as the theory and practice of prescribing.
The module is delivered using a blended learning approach, which incorporates both face-to-face and online activities.
A variety of strategies and techniques are employed, including simulation based learning, to encourage critical enquiry and problem solving, in recognition of the complexities that may be encountered in prescribing practice.
All students who successfully complete the module, will be eligible for their HCPC record to be modified to include Independent/Supplementary Prescribing.
This module can be taken as a free-standing module or as part of the Advanced Clinical Practice (MSc, PgDip and PgCert) pathways.
This module requires 78 hours of clinical placement with a prescribing clinical supervisor.
To apply for this as a free-standing module, please click the "Apply" tab at the top of this page.
See details of standalone modules for this programme below or view all multiprofessional education standalone modules here .
Please note modules are subject to change and are dependent on adequate numbers to run.
We do not guarantee to offer all elective modules every year.
See which multiprofessional education modules can be taken as standalone courses of study and how you can take part.
Undergraduate degree or equivalent
You should have all of the following:
International qualifications
Personal statement and references
Independent/supplementary prescribing module
Applicants to this module must:
The ACP Pathway’s philosophy of learning and teaching is to develop practitioners as self-reliant and autonomous learners, capable of independent and novel thinking.
We use a broad range of learning and teaching approaches to meet differing aspects of personal and professional development, learning styles and learner preferences, with emphasis on participatory methods.
The inter-professional nature of our modules provides excellent opportunities for collaborative learning across professional boundaries.
We work jointly with practice supervisors and assessors to promote partnership in learning and to ensure there is a close connection between theory and practice.
Teaching is delivered using a variety of methods to support different learning styles, and may include:
You will be assessed using a variety of methods.
Examples include:
We are the top university in the UK for graduate prospects (Complete University Guide 2023), and have been ranked in the top 250 universities in the world.
St George’s University of London is the only UK university, which specialises in healthcare education and is based on a hospital site, namely St George’s Hospital, where much of the Channel 4 television series 24 hours in A&E was filmed.
First established in 1979, the IRF has developed to encompass Light Microscopy, Electron Microscopy, and sample preparation for both, all housed in a single department providing a range of imaging analysis options and the expertise to compliment them.
Users of the IRF have the ability to image histology samples, cells and molecules of all varieties, and model organisms such as zebrafish using any of the light microscope, slide scanning, or electron microscope systems we maintain, supported by experienced staff at all stages of analysis.
You will also have access to online resources, such as the Canvas virtual learning environment and our Hunter discovery service to help you find the information you need.
At St George’s, you’ll be welcomed by a multicultural student and staff body of different ages, ethnicities, nationalities and backgrounds, all with one thing in common – an interest in healthcare, science and medicine.
The University attracts a substantial number – over two-thirds – of ‘mature’ students, aged 21 or over when they start; many have family and caring responsibilities.
Our innovative Student-Staff Partnership Grants (SSPGs), for example, provide funding for small projects led jointly by students and staff, which included the co-creation by one of our students of an art exhibition inspired by the Pathology Museum collection.
Within your first week at St George’s, you’ll take part in an induction programme to help with your orientation and introduce you to various study skills, including interprofessional learning and use of the Dissecting Room.
As well as general workshops on topics such as writing a CV and developing interview skills, the service works with the academic lead for employability to ensure there are careers activities specific to your programmes and future profession.
This course is aimed at qualified health or social care practitioners who have the support of their employer to develop as an advanced clinical practitioner.
All routes within the course promote your personal and professional development and will contribute to your career advancement within the relevant health and social care sector.
They will provide you with the opportunity to articulate and evidence your own scope of practice, and to work towards the Health Education England Framework for Advanced Clinical Practitioner (HEE, 2017).
This course provides the opportunity to work towards the nationally recognised framework established by Health Education England.
“The MSc has been an incredible journey of transformation.
Working closely with a diverse group of peers has not only enhanced my learning but also broadened my perspective on clinical practice across various professional contexts.
The faculty's engaging teaching techniques have consistently fostered critical thinking and encouraged a broader, more expansive understanding of clinical practice.
For those looking to progress their careers in advanced clinical practice I couldn’t recommend this course more.”
- Julian Hannah
“The MSc has been a great experience and provided an opportunity to develop the key pillars of advanced practice.
Multidisciplinary peer learning on the course is hugely beneficial to broaden depth of knowledge and clinical reasoning.
It has given me the confidence to explore and initiate quality improvement projects and build resilience to adapt to the demands of the workplace.
Support from St George's academic faculty has been excellent.”
- Katharine Netherton
“I work for an ambulance trust and in primary care as a senior paramedic, so advanced practice was a natural move for me.
It can feel like a pretty intimidating step up at times, but the support we’ve had to succeed at St George's has been fantastic, and I’ve really enjoyed the course so far.
The course design and content is genuinely engaging and relevant, and it’s delivered by an expert and approachable faculty.”
- Jason Zubiena
In this tab you will find the financial information for this course of study, including details of financial support
2025 fees
Independent and Supplementary Prescribing Module
Students can transfer credits towards their MSc through Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
If your degree was not awarded by St George's an administrative fee of £200 per module is required.
The administrative fee is charged upon commencing the course, and is applied regardless of whether the claim is successful or not.
The course may be self-funded, employer funded (by invoice) or through part-employer/part-student funding.
You may be eligible for:
There is a range of funding opportunities available to postgraduate students designed to contribute to tuition fees and assist with the cost of living while you are studying.
Our Clinical Practice PgCert offers multiple pathways to support experienced healthcare practitioners who wish to advance their level of practice.
Page last updated 12/08/2025 11:46 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/biomedical-science-antimicrobial-resistance:
Antimicrobials, especially antibiotics, are one of the greatest medical achievements of the 20th century.
But their overuse and misuse, combined with a shortage of new antimicrobials, means antimicrobial-resistant microorganisms will continue to emerge.
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is an urgent threat to global human health.
If no action is taken, the World Health Organization warns that in the not-too-distant future a minor graze or injury could kill.
Studying our Antimicrobial Resistance MRes is your chance to explore the healthcare impact, genetic technologies and the latest interventions.
It’s right for you if you’re a recent graduate or a healthcare professional who wants to carry out research in this crucial area.
Research and innovation are in our DNA.
Edward Jenner, whose groundbreaking work contributed to the eradication of smallpox, completed his medical training at St George’s in 1770.
More recently, our research has helped accelerate the treatment of tuberculosis, malaria, HIV and Covid-19.
Specialising in AMR, you’ll learn from experts exploring new drugs for tuberculosis, improved chemotherapy to eradicate persistent bacteria, novel antibiotic drug combinations, and more.
One of our researchers is a co-holder for more than 100 patents, while another is a research director of a UK-based antibiotic biotech company.
Whichever biomedical science pathway you pick, you’ll complete three core modules: Research Methods, Statistics, and Research Project Planning and Management.
All the core modules provide advanced training in biomedical research and help you interpret data.
You’ll develop specialist skills in tissue culture, handling of clinical specimens, flow cytometry, gene cloning and protein techniques, microbiological techniques and more.
Throughout the year, your expertise in Antimicrobial Resistance will evolve as you explore the pathogenesis of infection and virulence mechanisms that drive vaccine development, antibiotic treatment, and immunotherapy.
Unlike MSc courses, you’ll complete an extensive research project which involves spending up to nine months working as part of a research team.
This may provide an opportunity to work with clinical samples or staff on our hospital sites.
During the first term, you’ll meet potential supervisors and pick a project.
Past projects have explored areas such as a treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis and poly-resistance in candida from intensive care units patients.
Join us online to learn more about our Biomedical Science MRes pathways and ask all your course related questions.
“The MRes in Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) has been an excellent vehicle for me to kickstart my clinical academic career.
I have enjoyed learning about the multifaceted problem of AMR and developing my research skills.
The course structure well equipped me to undertake the research project component.
The link between the hospital and the University has been invaluable to both accommodate and translate my research into clinical settings.”
- Rob Oakley
Biomedical Science - Antimicrobial Resistance MRes student
If you are invited for an interview you will be asked to write a short paper (no more than half a page) on a subject associated with biomedical research.
Go to the Apply tab for more information .
There are two core modules:
These are common to all pathways, and most of teaching will take place in the autumn term.
The core modules provide advanced training in the practice of biomedical research across a broad range of laboratory and computer-based biomedical science.
Students will also undertake the specialist module (30 credits) which is specific to each of the five pathways.
The specialist module prepares you to conduct high-calibre in-depth research in your chosen research field.
The journal clubs (critical appraisal of papers) led by students themselves with guidance from tutors will run from October until March.
Unlike many other courses, our Research Project (105 credits) offers a chance to spend up to nine months working as part of an active research team.
For example, one past research project studied how MRSA adapts to different antimicrobials; MRSA is a major problem for hospitals, causing a wide variety of difficult-to-treat infections in immuno-compromised patients.
Another project continued work to improve the performance of antimicrobial peptides – or host defence peptides – proven to be active against a plethora of pathogenic bacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites, with a specific aim of tackling the resistant strains.
The Research Project module will start in October and runs until July/August.
Students will present a poster in July and submit a final dissertation in August.
Students also choose one optional module worth 15 credits from a range of options.
In addition to the core and specialist modules, the optional modules will equip students with a comprehensive set of essential research skills for interpreting and applying clinical and biomedical data.
They will also provide a broad understanding of research governance and ethics.
The optional modules may be subject to availability.
Watch the Biomedical Science MRes webinar from our virtual postgraduate event.
This module looks at a wide range of quantitative and qualitative research study designs and approaches, their advantages and disadvantages.
We focus on good research practice, designing studies using tools and approaches to minimise bias and maximise scientific rigour.
Research Project Planning and Management (15 credits)
This module prepares you for conducting and managing a research project and includes ethical, legal, safety and time management aspects of research.
You will learn how to identify and appropriately address any ethical and legal issues in your project, as well as safety issues when working with hazardous substances, organisms or equipment.
This will also include lectures on writing up scientific work.
Antimicrobial Resistance (30 credits)
This module examines the major AMR problems and the strategies needed to reduce the current and future AMR burden, with a particular focus on healthcare impact, genetic technologies, and interventions.
There will be an opportunity to learn about bioinformatics techniques, new sequencing technologies and ‘omics’ methodologies, and the enormous impact that genetics is having on understanding the epidemiology, selection and evolution of AMR pathogens.
There will also be a series of sessions focusing on strategies to reduce AMR such as rapid diagnostics, antibiotic stewardship, dosing, new drugs, vaccines and phage applications.
While studying this module, you will learn how to appraise and critically evaluate scientific papers, through a series of journal club sessions and presentations.
Appraisal of scientific literature is essential in guiding your own research strategies and objectives, as well as peer reviewing other researchers’ works in your specialist area, for example, reviewing manuscripts submitted for publication in scientific journals.
Research Project (105 credits)
This is the main module of our MRes course.
Dissertation projects will involve the assembly, analysis and interpretation of substantial research data, primarily lab generated, although some projects may involve metanalyses of theoretical data.
You will have the freedom to choose from a wide-ranging list of projects, and to work in a vibrant research environment with world-renowned researchers.
You may also work with their PhD students or postdoctoral scientists within the collaborative research group to gain insight and experience over the course of your project.
This module will introduce students to fundamental principles and concepts of clinical trials.
Particular attention will be given to randomised controlled trials (RCTs), which are considered to be the most robust approach to testing new treatments.
Students will learn how to appraise the validity and reliability of trial results and how trials are managed and conducted in real-world settings.
Students will also gain an appreciation of the ethical and regulatory requirements surrounding RCTs.
Students will complete practical sessions each week based on the topic of the preceding lecture.
Work from the practical sessions will be documented in a practical session notebook, which will count towards the ICA helping to consolidate learning and knowledge.
Importantly, a one-day face-to-face good clinical practice (GCP) course will form part of the module with a certificate awarded on successful completion.
This GCP certificate is a key requirement for those working on clinical trials in any sector.
The module thus provides knowledge, skills and a qualification immediately relevant for potential employment in the area of clinical trials management.
The World Health Organization (WHO) defines a health care system as consisting of: ‘All organizations, people and actions whose primary intent is to promote, restore or maintain health.
This includes efforts to influence determinants of health as well as more direct health-improving activities’ (WHO:2007).
Practical Data Analysis (15 credits)
This module will enable you to develop skills in understanding, critically interpreting and extracting data.
You will be taught appropriate qualitative and quantitative data analysis methodologies, and how to communicate and present results appropriately in plain English.
You will learn about both quantitative and qualitative data.
Topics covered include graphs and descriptive statistics, confidence intervals, tests, regression, and the practical collection of qualitative data using interviews and focus groups.
Statistics (15 credits)
You are introduced to modern data analysis techniques and statistical approaches so that you can critically analyse and interpret quantitative data and make inferences from the results when undertaking your research project.
Emphasis is placed on the language and logic of statistical investigation, and not on formulae or calculations, building your confidence in interpreting and discussing the methods and statistics in biomedical, healthcare and clinical research and other scientific literature.
Our teaching team share their expertise in lectures and seminars, practical sessions and small group sessions.
Spending time completing wider reading and in-depth study of your area of interest will also be key.
You’ll choose your research project and start with laboratory work in mid-October, completing your research by the following August.
We’ve designed assessments that prepare you for your research project.
You’ll learn to critically review published work, create appropriate experimental designs and analyse data.
At the same time, you’ll develop your scientific writing and presentation skills.
All our modules are assessed through written assignments or an oral presentation – except our statistics module which is assessed via examination.
Once you’ve finished your research project, you'll also present a poster on your research.
Read more about our research .
Biomedical scientists work at the cutting edge of research and medicine, helping to solve some of the most threatening diseases and conditions facing mankind.
Specialising in antimicrobial resistance, you’ll be ready to carry out research which improves drug regimens and combinations.
This could ultimately help avoid resistance in the future.
By the end of the course, you’ll be confident planning and managing a research project.
This includes knowing how to write a research proposal​, evaluate published research​ and identify good quality research.
You’ll also have advanced skills in data handling, scientific communication and using technology to support research projects.
Some of our graduates work in research-active healthcare roles, while others engage with clinical research as trial managers or laboratory scientists.
You might find opportunities in:
With your extensive research experience, you’ll also stand out as a candidate when applying to continue to PhD study.
2025 UK (home) : £10,950
2025 International (including EU) : £16,750
Credit transfer from the Healthcare Research Skills and Methods PgCert qualifies for a proportional discount in course fees.
Recognition of prior learning, including credit from research skills modules at other recognised providers, may be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Improve healthcare by learning how scientific discoveries are turned into drugs, diagnostic tools and preventive strategies.
Page last updated 06/08/2025 09:54 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/biomedical-science-clinical-biomedical-research:
How do you effectively carry out research in a clinical environment?
And what can we do to improve healthcare practice and strategies?
Join us to uncover the answers and prepare to shape the future of healthcare.
This course is designed for healthcare professionals or life sciences graduates interested in research.
You’ll also be a great match if you work in clinical trials or are progressing from our Healthcare Research Skills and Methods PgCert .
From patient engagement to laboratory analyses, you’ll experience the entire clinical study cycle.
We’ll also share the latest research insights – our experts are exploring everything from new therapies for neonatal disorders and cancer, to how plants might help us make medicines accessible.
Throughout the year, you’ll also develop specialist knowledge in clinical biomedical research.
We’ll look at how to carry out studies in a clinical environment and implement strategies needed to improve current healthcare practices.
Past projects have explored immunity and pain in osteoarthritis, the impact of occult carbon monoxide exposure and tools to manage polypharmacy in acute care.
Research methods (15 credits)
Clinical Biomedical Research (30 credits)
This module explores the delivery of biomedical research in a clinical environment, and implementing strategies needed to improve current healthcare practices and strategies.
You will develop an excellent foundation for critically understanding and evaluating research, its design, conduct, dissemination and funding, as well as acquiring knowledge of appropriate statistical methods.
You will develop the knowledge, practical skills and attitudes you need to become an effective healthcare researcher and conduct your own research.
There will be an opportunity to learn about clinical trial design, patient and public involvement and engagement and implementation and improvement of healthcare services.
There will also be a series of sessions on laboratory skills.
Specialising in clinical biomedical research, you’ll understand how to carry out research in clinical settings and use your findings to shape the future of practice.
To get the most from your studies, you will need your personal computer or laptop (Windows 10 or Mac OS) and an internet connection in your home.
Page last updated 06/08/2025 09:55 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/biomedical-science-infection-and-immunity:
How are diseases contracted?
What can we do to help affected communities?
Can we use vaccines to prevent the spread?
Answering these questions is vital if we want to reduce suffering and eradicate disease around the world.
Saving lives starts with understanding the pathogenesis of infection and virulence mechanisms.
Studying with us, you’ll learn how to apply this expertise to create vaccines, antibiotic treatments and cancer-fighting immunotherapy.
You’ll learn from experts in all aspects of the physiology, molecular biology, immunology and diagnostics of infectious diseases.
Their latest research is exploring fascinating areas like the physiology of malarial parasites and rapid diagnostics for infectious diseases.
Past projects have investigated the mucosal immunity to group B streptococcus and explored the development of hepatitis A virus-like particles in a plant system​.
“I enjoyed the opportunity to really develop my laboratory skills here with an amazing and supportive group.
I was able to focus on what I enjoyed most, and working with an excellent supervisor has really helped me develop my skills and passion for virology.”
- Tiara Talukder
Biomedical Science - Infection and Immunity MRes student
For example, one past research project tested a novel vaccine candidate against tuberculosis, a global health problem affecting millions of people worldwide.
Another project examined a specific house dust mite allergen which has been linked to triggering asthma, while yet another project focused on the development of antibody immunotherapy against chikungunya virus.
Infection and Immunity (30 credits)
This pathway module covers the broad area of infectious disease.
It will demonstrate how an understanding of the pathogenesis of infection and virulence mechanisms drives vaccine development, antibiotic treatment and immunotherapy.
You will learn cellular and molecular responses to infection, including innate and adoptive immune responses, and responses that are deleterious.
You will investigate how new sequencing technologies and ‘omics’ methodologies are providing novel insights into the human microbiota, susceptibility to infection, tracking of infectious disease, and mechanisms underlying resistance to antibiotics.
Specialising in infection and immunity, you’ll carry out research that advances vaccine development, antibiotic treatment and immunotherapy.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/biomedical-science-molecular-mechanisms-of-cancer:
One in two people will develop some form of cancer during their lifetime (NHS).
But there is hope.
Research is not only improving future treatment, but the World Health Organization say 30-50% of cases are preventable.
Studying this course, you’ll explore the Hallmarks and Enabling Characteristics of Cancer.
This includes looking at areas such as invasion and metastases, deregulating cell energetics, avoiding immune destruction and genome instability.
We’ll also discuss how research can identify genetic, environmental, and behavioural risk factors.
Our academics have paved the way for advancements in cancer research, including creating thalidomide analogues for cancer treatment, developing cancer antibodies through plant engineering, and researching new therapies to stop advanced skin cancer.
You’ll learn from experts exploring DNA replication and repair, as well as experts who are unravelling oncogenic processes and developing anti-cancer strategies.
Whichever biomedical science pathway you pick, you’ll complete three core modules: Research Methods, Statistics and Research Project Planning and Management.
All of the core modules provide advanced training in biomedical research and help you interpret data.
You’ll also study clinical and pathological aspects of cancer and the molecular mechanisms behind the disease.
At the same time, we’ll discuss current treatments and how research translates into novel treatments.
Past projects explored the cellular pathways involved in cell proliferation and cell death, and the cancer cell response to treatments and metabolites.
“I strongly recommend applying for this course if you are enthusiastic about undertaking an independent cancer research project.
Completing this course opens up a wide range of career opportunities, whether you plan to pursue a PhD or wish to find a career in academia or industry.
- Andisheh Niakan
Biomedical Science MRes - Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer alumna
For example, one past research project investigated the role of the human TTC4 protein – a gene previously linked to breast cancer and the progression of malignant melanoma – in cell death, rapid reproduction and cancer.
Another project examined DNA polymerases, enzymes essential for DNA replication, mutations of which have been identified as causative for colorectal cancer.
Molecular Mechanisms of Cancer (30 credits)
This module provides a basic introduction to the normal functioning of relevant cellular pathways and an indication of how problems can arise.
It aims to develop your understanding of the fundamental cellular and molecular principles governing tumorigenesis, and of how the biology of cancer has led – and will continue to lead – to new therapies.
It will also give you insight into how new sequencing technologies and ‘omics’ methodologies are providing novel insights into susceptibility to and development of cancer.
Specialising in this vital area, your work will have the potential to prevent, diagnose and treat cancer.
Credit transfer from the Healthcare Skills and Methods PgCert qualifies for a proportional discount in course fees.
Page last updated 06/08/2025 09:56 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/biomedical-science-reproduction-and-development:
Reproduction is a fascinating process, but it doesn’t always go to plan.
Many couples struggle to conceive.
Some experience miscarriage.
And, according to NHS statistics, one in 47 babies are born with a congenital anomaly – anything from cleft palate or limb defect to heart conditions or spina bifida.
This course is for you if you want to carry out research that improves fertility and helps identify, treat or manage birth defects.
Joining us, you’ll study the interplay between genes and physiology and the complications that can arise.
You’ll meet experts improving diagnosis and counselling for unexplained infertility and creating new therapies and diagnosis for neonatal disorders.
We’ll also reveal how we’re using rare disease models to understand human development and reproduction.
While sharpening your research skills, you’ll learn about the genetic basis of birth defects and underlying molecular mechanisms.
We’ll also take a closer look at events during early pregnancy when the placenta forms and disruptions which result in disorders, such as pre-eclampsia.
Past projects have explored the effects of progesterone on placenta development, vascular function during pregnancy, and molecular mechanisms of polycystic ovary syndrome.
“The Biomedical Science MRes has given me a solid foundation for my research career providing me with the necessary skills and knowledge for scientific research.
This has been an invaluable asset that has helped me to progress to a PhD programme funded by the MRC.
I am looking to further my research in the field of mitochondrial diseases and transgenic mouse models, knowing that I can always refer back to the structural framework that was built during the MRes.
- Hamin Lee
Biomedical Science - Reproduction and Development MRes student
For example, one past research project studied first trimester placenta cells to identify future indicators of pre-eclampsia, while another analysed the mutation of gonadal genes which to provide new insight into what causes a failure to initiate or complete puberty naturally.
Other projects offered opportunities to work with animal models (mouse, zebrafish) to enhance our understanding of congenital disorders and identification of mutated genes through sequencing of patient DNA samples.
Reproduction and Development (30 credits)
This pathway module begins exploring the science of reproduction and covers various aspects of women’s health, including normal sexual differentiation, endocrine disorders, hormonal control of fertility, pregnancy and contraception.
It covers embryonic development and disease with an emphasis on molecular mechanisms and human congenital disorders.
You will be introduced to experimental techniques, terminology, model organisms and the use of transgenic mouse technology.
The module will also provide you with insight into how new sequencing technologies and ‘omics’ methodologies are helping to decipher the cellular mechanisms involved in reproduction and development.
Your work will have the potential to improve diagnosis, genetic screening and counselling for families affected.
Page last updated 06/08/2025 09:57 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/clinical-neuroscience-practice:
From migraine and traumatic brain injury to motor neurone disease and dementia, one in six people in the UK are diagnosed with a neurological condition.
To help meet the growing demand for experts in this area, we’ve designed a course that explores how to provide high-quality care, as well as the psychological impact of neurological conditions on cognition, emotion and behaviour.
We focus on using the latest evidence-based practice while listening to patients' lived experiences.
If you complete a clinical placement, you’ll work alongside healthcare leaders.
You’ll observe as they deliver the latest treatments like deep brain stimulation which, by altering electrical signals in the brain, produces life-changing outcomes for people with Parkinson’s disease.
Neurorehabilitation, neuromodulation and cerebrovascular disease are just a few examples of areas our experts are exploring.
You’re the perfect fit for this course if you’re a psychology graduate who wants to gain clinical experience and explore theory further.
It’s also designed for professionals already working in the field of clinical neuroscience including doctors, nurses and allied health professionals.
This means you’ll learn alongside students from a range of backgrounds which reflects the multidisciplinary nature of modern neurosciences healthcare.
We offer this course as a PgCert or MSc.
For the PgCert, students only take the Foundations of Clinical Neuroscience module plus the Clinical Neuropsychology or the Health Services Delivery.
This is a great option if you want to upskill but can’t commit to the full course.
Join us online to find out more about our Clinical Neuroscience Practice MSc and ask all your course related questions.
Unlike courses with similar titles, this course goes beyond theory.
It’s a course about neuroscience in clinical practice.
You learn how breakthroughs in the lab can shape the future of care for people with a diverse range of neurological conditions.
Working towards the MSc qualification, you’ll complete:
You can also pick from optional modules from our other courses on topics like genomics or global health (subject to availability).
Your dissertation will focus on an area that interests you.
Perhaps you’ll look at the quality of life of people living with neuromuscular disorders.
Or maybe you’re interested in looking at how we can create interventions for carers.
Outside of lectures and seminars, you can get involved with our journal club, run by a clinical teaching fellow, which explores structural inequalities within this area.
You’ll also attend events such as our annual conference on structural inequalities, as well as research networking events where you can present your ideas.
“I love the depth of understanding the course provides for the curriculum, allowing me to explore the latest advancements in neurology and psychiatry.
The hands-on practical opportunities provide an invaluable real-world experience that's preparing me for an impactful career in mental health.”
- Maushmi Selvamani
Clinical Neuroscience Practice MSc student
“I find my studies in the UK to be very exciting.
I have a great campus environment and teaching resources.
As St George’s students’ study in a specialist university hospital, I felt that I could learn from not only textbook knowledge but also clinical practice.
- Stephanie Tao
To graduate with an MSc, students must accrue 180 credits, and the necessary combination of modules varies slightly depending on your academic and career background.
Advice on module choice is available from your allocated personal tutor.
To graduate with a PgCert, you must complete the Foundations in Clinical Neuroscience module, plus either the Clinical Neuropsychology or Health Services Delivery for the Neurosciences module.
Watch the Clinical Neuroscience Practice webinar from our postgraduate virtual event.
All students will take the following modules:
One or both of the following must be completed depending on academic and clinical background:
A Clinical Placement (15 credits) is compulsory for psychology track students, and optional for qualified clinicians.
At least one research support module will be taken:
Students may also accrue their remaining credits from the following optional modules, joining students from other courses:
*Please note: regarding the genomics optional modules:
Students also attend the Structural Inequalities in the Clinical Neurosciences conference .
Organised by the course team, this conference will feature a series of expert speakers from the UK and internationally.
The speakers will address the root causes of inequality in neuroscience research and clinical care, and point to solutions for overcoming these.
Students who complete the Foundations module and either Clinical Neuropsychology or Health Service Delivery and choose to demit at this point will be eligible for a PgCert.
Students who complete 120 credits of taught modules or 105 credits plus a clinical placement will be eligible for a PgDip.
Full-time MSc sample timetable 2024-25 (PDF)
Part-time module selection guidance (PDF)
Foundations of Clinical Neuroscience (30 credits)
The module provides a foundation to understand the organisation and function of the human nervous system, emphasising that pathologies tend to affect specific locations and can therefore produce predictable clinical effects.
The module will focus on common neurological disorders and common psychiatric disorders, detailing their underlying pathophysiology, symptoms, diagnosis and treatment.
The module will also emphasise that experience of neurological illness comes about through the combination of neuropathology with the individual patient’s beliefs, personality and social milieu and their cognitive, affective and behavioural responses to symptoms and impairments.
The module will also explore the relationship between race and ethnicity and neuroscientific knowledge and health disparities for individuals with common neurological and psychiatric disorders.
Health Service Delivery for the Clinical Neurosciences (30 credits)
This module will equip students with a comprehensive understanding of the complexities of modern healthcare provision as it applies to neurological and related fields.
Teaching content will cover, through a range of methods including lectures, workshops, Q&A sessions and tutorials, three core elements:
Clinical Neuropsychology (30 credits)
This module will provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the principles and practice of clinical psychology within neuroscience settings.
Teaching content will cover, through a range of methods including lectures, workshops, group work, and ‘meet the practitioner’ sessions, three primary topics:
A key emphasis will be how the discipline contributes to improving patient care and service delivery for the diverse communities we work within.
Assessment will be via a group presentation relevant to the role of the psychologist in the clinical neurosciences, and an essay that addresses the integration of theory and practice in clinical neuropsychology.
Students completing the module will have a sound critical appreciation of the relevant theoretical models and principles that underpin clinical neuropsychology, alongside an appreciation of their practical implementation, which will be excellent preparation for undertaking clinical work in multidisciplinary neuroscience settings as well as applied research in this domain.
This module will teach you how to critically appraise research literature relevant to your field of study, covering the principles of critical appraisal, techniques and models for critiquing papers, as well as reviewing relevant research designs and analysis methods and appraisal of key papers in the relevant specialist field, including educational research.
When you have successfully completed the module, you will be able to:
Practical Data Analysis: Qualitative and Quantitative Approaches (15 credits)
This module will give you the skills to:
This module will introduce you to a range of research approaches and methods.
You will learn how to:
This module covers the knowledge, attributes and skills required to succeed as a professional researcher as defined in the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF), which is endorsed by organisations including Research Councils UK.
The module addresses the key RDF domains:
It will help you further develop the critical responses and skills necessary to plan and execute projects successfully and in a timely manner, as a first step to seeing yourself as a researcher helping to advance your area of study.
This module will introduce you to the underlying principles and structure of statistical thinking, along with the latest methods for analysing data collected using quantitative study designs.
It will help you develop the skills to critically appraise the statistical methods used in research papers, interpret the results, and evaluate the conclusions.
It will give you confidence in interpreting and discussing methods and statistics in biomedical, healthcare, and clinical literature, and when utilising statistics and statistical methods in your own research.
When you have successfully completed of the module, you will be able to:
Case Studies in Drug Discovery & Development (15 credits)
Fundamentals of Human Genetics and Genomics (15 credits)
Please note: students taking this module should have some experience of studying genetics as part of their undergraduate degree.
Students are encouraged to complete the free online course Future of Genetics in Medicine before starting the module.
The deadline for choosing this module is prior to the Clinical Neuroscience Practice MSc application deadline.
If you are interested in taking this module, please contact us in advance to discuss via MscClinNeuroPrac@sgul.ac.uk
Genomics of Neurological Disorders (15 credits)
It is encouraged (but not compulsory) to also take the Fundamentals of Human Genetics and Genomics module.
There are two routes to meeting our entry criteria.
Psychology graduates
You should have or be expected to achieve, a minimum of a second class degree (2:2) in a psychology degree.
All degrees must be awarded before 1 August on the year of entry.
Healthcare professionals
Additional requirements
Interviews
Psychology graduate applicants will be interviewed to assess their suitability for the programme.
This will be conducted virtually by a member of the course team.
Applications from healthcare professionals will generally be considered without interview, but the course team might invite applicants to interview where needed to assess suitability.
Fitness to Practise checks
For clinical placements, students will need to be accepted as a Clinical Observer or Clinical Attachment by St George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
This requires occupational health screening and might include DBS clearance depending on Trust policy for the specific role being undertaken.
You’ll work on projects within teams and learn about neurological disorders, including hearing directly from patients about their lived experience.
Reflective practice is also key for expanding your expertise and becoming the best clinician you can be.
You’ll learn from academics and clinicians who have commissioned, designed, and delivered state-of-the-art clinical services.
They will share their experience of working with NHS England, NICE, and other national bodies.
We also give you the chance to hear from people living with neurological and related illnesses as patients or carers.
Exams, essays and reflective reports are a few examples of ways we’ll assess you.
You’ll also complete a presentation as a group as part of the course.
Your dissertation will also show us how you can apply your skills to address a research question.
Completing a clinical placement is mandatory for those with a pre-clinical psychology background and optional for qualified healthcare professionals.
It’s a great opportunity to put theory into practice and level up your skills.
St George’s is nationally recognised as a specialist healthcare and medical higher education institution which helps us provide rewarding placement opportunities.
By the end of the course, you’ll have what it takes to shape the future of neuroscience healthcare delivery, with practical experience on your CV and advanced expertise in the psychology of neurological conditions.
Our graduates understand neurological and related illnesses from theoretical, clinical, and lived experience perspectives.
You’ll also be able to deliver research and quality improvement ideas that will make an impact in your workplace.
Most students will go on to clinical roles, but there are also opportunities in other areas of healthcare.
For example, you might start a career in the pharmaceutical industry with an organisation that has an interest in developing new drugs for patients with neurological conditions.
Full-time MSc: £10,950
Part-time MSc (2 years): £5,850 per annum
Full-time MSc: £16,750
Part-time MSc (2 years): £8,850 per annum
We offer a number of scholarships for outstanding students wishing to pursue postgraduate study.
Guidance for completing references
Dr Catherine Doogan is a Consultant Clinical Psychologist who has worked with people with neurological conditions for over 20 years.
Catherine has led and developed various services including Neurorehabilitation OnLine (N-ROL) .
She also co-developed a Vocational Rehabilitation Service and has experience delivering neuropsychological interventions to people with aphasia and their carers.
From a research perspective Catherine has led NIHR-funded clinical trial teams in creating digital neurological intervention apps for people with aphasia after stroke and dementia.
She also developed and delivered a Virtual Reality intervention for people with Visual Inattention.
Catherine has a teaching degree as well as her Clinical Psychology doctorate and PgDip in Neuropsychology.
She is passionate about delivering innovative ways for a diverse groups to learn.
She is the research lead for the Clinical Health and Neuropsychology Department where she is developing placements and research projects regarding evidence-based interventions in neuropsychological rehabilitation.
Dr Jeremy Isaacs is a consultant neurologist at St George’s and Kingston Hospitals and Honorary Senior Lecturer at St George’s, University of London.
He has a specialist interest in cognitive neurology and dementia and is Clinical Director of the NHS London Dementia Clinical Network, where he led the first London and national memory service audits .
He was a member of the NICE 2018 dementia guideline committee, chaired the NICE 2022 self-harm guideline committee and chairs the NICE lower urinary tract symptoms in men, trans and non-binary people with a prostate guideline committee.
Jeremy is Neurology Clinical Lead at Kingston Hospital, Neurosciences Clinical Academic Group Director at St George’s Hospital/University and Specialty Research Lead for Neurological Disorders and DeNDRoN for South London Clinical Research Network.
He runs a multi-disciplinary cognitive neurology service at St George’s Hospital where he has developed a support group for young people living with dementia funded by the Hospital Charity.
Jeremy studied medicine at Cambridge University and University College London.
He subsequently held junior research posts at KCL Institute of Psychiatry and UCL Institute of Neurology.
His PhD was on the immunology of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD).
Dr Ania Crawshaw is the clinical teaching fellow on the MSc in Clinical Neuroscience Practice and a senior neurology registrar at St George’s Hospital, London.
She has a special interest in neurology education, having previously worked as a neurology teaching fellow, lecturing to both Cardiff University and more recently SGUL medical students.
She has been nominated for and won various teaching awards in these roles.
Other teaching experience includes working as a lecturer for PassPACES, teaching doctors preparing for their postgraduate medical examinations, and creating an open access online course for healthcare professionals about Functional Neurological Disorder on futurelearn.com.
Although Ania’s main clinical interests are in movement disorders and functional neurological disorder, she retains a love for general neurology and takes pleasure in sharing this with her students.
Wherever possible, she prioritises incorporating in her teaching the voices of her patients, alongside their families and carers.
Dr Gill Cumberbatch is a Stroke nurse consultant at St George’s University Hospitals Foundation Trust and module lead for ‘Health Service Delivery for the Clinical Neurosciences’ on the MSc in Clinical Neuroscience Practice.
She completed her nurse training at Glasgow University followed by an MSc at King’s College London and a subsequent PhD on patient, carers and clinician views on communication about thrombolysis treatment.
Her current role as stroke nurse consultant at encompasses the whole patient pathway including thrombectomy, hyper-acute care, inpatient care, research, outpatient stroke clinics and stroke prevention.
She is the principle investigator for a number of stroke clinical research trials.
She is the joint Clinical Director for stroke in London and until recently was the stroke care group lead for St George’s Hospital.
She jointly leads the National thrombectomy nursing group.
She is a member of the Royal College of Physicians Intercollegiate Stroke Working Party and peer review project.
She was part of the Guideline Development Group for the Stroke National Clinical Guidelines.
She is also an honorary lecturer and co-convenor of the Acute Care module of the MSc in stroke at University College London.
Internationally she has worked with stroke services in Guyana, Russia, Vietnam and China to improve stroke care.
Atticus H Hainsworth is Reader in Cerebrovascular Disease at St George’s University of London, UK.
He is an expert in the pathology of cerebral small vessel disease, the primary cause of lacunar stroke and vascular cognitive impairment.
His interests are in the pathological processes that underlie small vessel disease and associated white matter lesions.
He has explored pathogenic mechanisms of small vessel disease in human brain tissue derived from large cohorts (primarily the OPTIMA and MRC-CFAS cohorts).
He has explored animal models relevant to small vessel disease, see Hainsworth et al (2017) below.
Atticus received his undergraduate training in Natural Sciences from Cambridge University and his PhD in Physiology & Biophysics from Rush Medical Center, Chicago.
He was Chief Investigator on the PASTIS trial , testing tadalafil for possible use in vascular dementia.
He leads the Vascular Health theme within the MRC-funded Dementias-PlatformUK .
Dr Dean Semmens is a Lecturer in Neuropharmacology at St George’s University of London.
Dr Semmens obtained a first-class degree in Molecular and Cellular Biology at the University of Bath, where he also spent time at Eli Lilly as part of a neurodegeneration drug-hunting team focusing on targets in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease.
He obtained a PhD in Neuroscience and subsequently undertook two Postdoctoral Research Assistant positions at Queen Mary University of London.
Following a position as a Lecturer in Neuroscience at Barts and the London, Dr Semmens joined St George’s University of London.
Dr Semmens currently leads the Life Control module on the Medicine (MBBS5) degree programme, whilst also leading The Central Nervous System, Mental Health, Gut and Skin module on the Pharmacy (with Kingston University) degree programme.
Dr Semmens teaches and supervises students in the areas of neuroscience and pharmacology on the Biomedical Science, Clinical Pharmacology, Medicine, and Pharmacy degree programmes.
Dr Semmens has obtained a Certificate in Teaching and Learning (CILT) at Queen Mary University of London and a PgCert in Healthcare and Biomedical Education at St George’s University of London, leading to Fellowship of Advance HE.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/clinical-practice:
One year, part-time
25 July 2025 for September 2025 entry
September 2025 (Induction on 9 September 2025 on site at Tooting campus)
The Clinical Practice PgCert is designed to enhance your clinical skills in a way that is relevant to your practice.
Our different pathways allow you to choose modules that best suit your practice and needs.
The course will maximise your professional skills and capabilities with a goal of allowing you to practice at an enhanced level.
Five different pathways for the PgCert are available: Generic, Clinical Human Factors and Patient Safety, First Contact Practitioner (Paramedic), First Contact Practitioner (Musculoskeletal), and Critical Care.
The PgCert is worth 60 credits and is normally undertaken part-time over one year.
The Critical Care pathway starts in Term 2.
Our degree courses meet all the requirements set out within Health Education England’s Multi-Professional Framework for Advanced Clinical Practice in England (HEE, 2017).
The First Contact Practitioner pathways have been formally recognised as delivering education and training in line with the relevant Roadmaps to Practice through NHS England's Workforce, Training and Education Practitioner Self-Declaration process.
Two of the pathways result in a First Contact Practitioner (FCP) qualification.
An FCP service is a registered health professional who provides the first point of contact for patients.
This service increases capacity to general practice and allows patients to receive faster access to the right care.
FCP's are qualified autonomous clinical practitioners who are able to assess, diagnose, treat and discharge patients without a medical referral.
To complete the Clinical Practice PgCert, students require 60 credits.
Five pathways for the PgCert are available.
Some pathways have more flexibility than others and students work with their pathway lead to determine the best choice of modules for their career path.
Any optional module up to 60 credits
The general pathway allows for the most flexibility, as you can choose 60 credits from our module portfolio to build your pathway.
These modules must be taken over one academic year.
The greatest strength of our healthcare system is the people working within it.
The vast majority of staff work incredibly hard to ensure patients remain safe and have positive experiences.
Despite their hard work and good intent, however, clinicians are working under huge challenges including time pressures, constantly changing environments, and lack of information in situations where a wrong decision can have significant repercussions for the patient.
These challenges add complexity and increase potential for error.
The Clinical Human Factors and Patient Safety pathway uses an iterative approach that harnesses an evidenced-based logical route to explore clinical excellence and patient safety.
Clinical Human Factors and Patient Safety pathway modules:
The Critical Care pathway is specifically designed for paramedics seeking to deepen their expertise in critical care environments.
This course offers a flexible curriculum that includes the Principles of Critical Care module, that focuses on the assessment, management, and treatment of critically ill patients.
Through simulations, case studies, and collaborative learning, students will enhance their critical thinking and clinical reasoning abilities.
Ideal for practicing paramedics looking to expand their roles within healthcare teams, this course prepares graduates to provide high-quality care in critical care settings, improving patient outcomes and enhancing their professional development.
Critical Care pathway modules:
The First Contact Practitioner Musculoskeletal pathway is designed for healthcare professionals seeking to specialise in the assessment and management of musculoskeletal conditions.
This course provides participants with the enhanced knowledge and clinical skills necessary to effectively diagnose, treat, and refer patients with musculoskeletal issues in primary care settings.
Through a blend of theoretical coursework and practical training, students will learn essential topics such as anatomy, pathophysiology, evidence-based assessment techniques, and treatment modalities.
Emphasis will be placed on developing critical thinking skills and enhancing the patient journey through effective communication and collaboration.
Ideal for physiotherapists, nurses, and other allied health professionals, this course prepares graduates to confidently take on first contact roles, improve patient outcomes, and contribute to multidisciplinary teams in musculoskeletal healthcare.
First Contact Practitioner (Musculoskeletal) pathway modules:
The First Contact Practitioner Paramedic pathway is a dynamic course designed for healthcare professionals seeking to enhance their skills in delivering immediate, patient-centred care in various settings.
This course equips participants with enhanced clinical knowledge, assessment techniques, and decision-making abilities essential for effective first contact care.
Students will explore topics such as emergency response, patient assessment, and collaborative practice, focusing on both theoretical foundations and practical applications.
Through a combination of lectures, hands-on training, and case studies, participants will develop the confidence and competence to manage a wide range of medical emergencies and enhance patient outcomes.
This course is ideal for paramedics looking to expand their roles in pre-hospital care and integrate innovative practices into their work.
Graduates will be prepared to take on leadership roles and contribute to the evolving landscape of emergency healthcare.
First Contact Practitioner Paramedic pathway modules:
Clinical Practice 2025-26 timetable (PDF)
Advanced Clinical Reasoning in Health Assessment (30 credits)
Advanced Musculoskeletal Management (15 credits)
This module is a capstone module for the MSK sub-pathway.
It may also be taken as a free-standing module.
This module provides the opportunity to pathway and represents the opportunity for clinicians to develop and apply advanced clinical practice musculoskeletal knowledge and skills in a clinical setting.
The focus of this module is work based learning with learners encouraged to work closely with employers to develop a framework that supports learning and development under the guidance of a clinical mentor.
This development time is likely to differ according to clinical practice environment and will be supported by the module team via a variety of technology enhanced learning approaches.
This module offers the flexibility to develop skills and competence in a role appropriate to predetermined practice and developmental needs of the individual learner.
The capability of the learner to work as an advanced musculoskeletal practitioner appropriate to their profession and clinical role will be assessed.
As such this module provides an opportunity to develop both role specific and core attributes of an advanced musculoskeletal practitioner.
Leadership in Healthcare (15 credits)
The module draws on contemporary research, opinion and wider leadership theory to equip learner advanced clinical practitioners with the knowledge and skills which underpin effective clinical leadership including approaches to operational and strategic service configuration and quality improvement within and across traditional professional and operational boundaries.
Opportunities to learn with and from colleagues include membership of multiprofessional learning sets and pathway-specific tutorials for individual learners to plan and contextualise learning within clinical specialty.
By acknowledging these limitations, human factors offers ways to minimise and mitigate human frailties and improve patient safety.
The emphasis of the module is to offer and evidenced based and coherent approach to patient safety and clinical excellence.
This module is offered through St George's short courses and Clinical Practice students may take this module along with other healthcare professionals.
It provides you with opportunities to learn with and from colleagues in multiprofessional learning sets and pathway-specific tutorials so you can plan and contextualise learning within their own clinical specialty.
This module can be taken as a free-standing module or as part of the Clinical Practice PgCert.
Our philosophy of learning and teaching is to develop practitioners as self-reliant and autonomous learners, capable of independent and novel thinking.
This course will maximise your professional skills and capabilities with a goal of allowing you to practice at an enhanced level.
NHS England define enhanced practice as an area which makes significant and essential contributions to health and care.
This level of practice includes graduates delivering a majority of clinical activity and professionals who have moved beyond novice/competent that are not working at the level of advanced practice.
They are qualified autonomous clinical practitioners who are able to assess, diagnose, treat and discharge a person without a medical referral.
PgCert
Select the application link for your chosen course and mode of study:
You will be asked to create an account.
Our Advanced Clinical Practice course is aimed at experienced healthcare practitioners who wish to advance their level of practice towards Advanced Clinical Practitioner status.
Duration: MSc: Three years part-time | PgDip: Two years part-time
Page last updated 15/08/2025 02:25 PM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/genomic-healthcare:
Every individual is unique – our genomes and the way they respond to disease is different.
Genomics is evolving rapidly and making an impact across numerous disciplines.
St George’s is part of the South East Genomic Laboratory Hub.
Our Genomic Healthcare PgCert is the perfect fit for professionals such as clinicians, nurses, pharmacists, and midwives.
We’ll provide knowledge on subjects relevant to healthcare practice and patient care that can support what you do every day in your role.
You’ll study four mandatory modules that cover a range of key topics.
We also offer these as standalone modules for healthcare professionals looking to upskill and study on a modular basis towards your Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
Applications for NHSE funding are now closed - please register your interest to be notified when more NHSE funding is released.
We’ve designed this course based on feedback from our healthcare students.
In recent years, a broad range of health professionals have chosen to study with us, including GPs, surgeons, consultants, research nurses, genetic technologists and biomedical scientists.
You’ll complete four mandatory modules:
You’ll look at the role of genetics in disease and how genomic information can explain disease mechanisms and biology.
We’ll also share examples of both common and rare diseases from across the entire healthcare spectrum to demonstrate how to interpret genomic data.
Considering the impact of genomic technologies on individual lives and public discourse will be key.
As well as knowing how to communicate and provide support to individuals and their families.
You’ll learn how to do this in practical sessions using role play scenarios.
The Genomic Healthcare PgCert has been designed based on feedback from our healthcare students.
Our wide range of specialist modules can also be studied individually as part of Continuous  Professional Development (CPD).
If you work in the NHS our modules are available with or without assessment, fully funded by NHS England as part of ‘workforce development’ (subject to available commissions).
Genomic Healthcare PgCert timetables
An Introduction to Counselling Skills in Genomics
This module will provide you with an introduction to general communication skills and specific counselling skills used in genomic medicine.
You will understand the importance of a family history and communication of pathogenic and/or uncertain results.
Ethical, Legal and Social Issues in Applied Genomics
You will be provided with a platform of ethical understanding from which to consider issues of confidentiality, privacy and disclosure, autonomy, welfare, informed consent and justice.
Finally, you will be provided with a discussion of legal issues surrounding the use of genetic information as well as the use of genetic data for research, diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
Fundamentals of Human Genetics and Genomics
This module will prepare you to understand the role of genetics in disease and how genomic information can be utilised to elucidate disease mechanism and biology.
It will cover the structure and variations in the human genomics, including fundamental principles of genetics and genomics.
You will review the architecture of the human genome and the functional units embedded in it and will cover aspects of gene regulation and chromatin structure and consider the importance of the epigenome in these processes.
You will learn about monogenic and multifactorial genetic disorders and how gene mapping and sequencing can be used to identify causal and contributory variants.
Genomics of Common and Rare Diseases
This module uses examples of both common and rare diseases from across the entire healthcare spectrum to demonstrate the clinical utility of genomic data in the healthcare setting.
These will give an insight into how advances in genomic technologies and integration of genomic data into clinical pathways are impacting on the management of patients from the prenatal setting, through paediatrics and into adult medicine and cancer.
The module will explore the clinical presentation and genetic architecture of disease, as well as the diagnostic and therapeutic implications of genomic data for a myriad of common and rare inherited conditions using expertise from across St George's Hospital, Guy's and St Thomans' NHS Foundation Trust, St George's, University of London and King's College London.
We will explore a range of approaches used to identify genetic predisposition to common and rare inherited diseases within the context of clinical diagnostics.
You will learn how to select patients with unmet diagnostic needs that will benefit from exome, or whole genome, sequencing, and some of the complexities involved in the interpretation of genomic data in the clinical context.
We will also discuss the Genomics England, genomic medicine services and data infrastructure.
We accept equivalent qualifications gained in other countries and use UKNARIC to assess international qualifications.
If you have any questions, you can contact us at study@sgul.ac.uk
We teach in blocks of five consecutive working days for each module, most of them in person, with our timetable running from approximately 9.00 - 17.00.
The way we assess your learning will change depending on the module but we use a variety of assessment methods, so every student has a chance to show their knowledge and strengths.
To prepare you for the practical challenges you’ll face, we design assessments that reflect real-world scenarios.
Instead, each module has one or two online assessments.
The Genomics Clinical Academic Group is a cross-institutional group that brings together scientists, clinicians, nurses and bioinformaticians all working together in both research and education.
You’ll be taught by experts in drug discovery and genomic testing, as well as clinicians involved in the 100,000 Genomes Project which sequenced 100,000 whole genomes from 85,000 NHS patients.
Genomics is an area of rapid change, with a particular skills shortage in the area of bioinformatics.
Because this course is designed for professionals already working in the healthcare field, most graduates typically return to their jobs.
You’ll be able to show enhanced knowledge and the ability to apply this to your work.
You might decide to do more modules from our Genomic Medicine course as CPD.
Many students upgrade to higher awards such as the PgDip (120 credits) or MSc (180 credits) Genomic Medicine which extends study by two or three years.
2025 UK entry (home)
2025 International (including EU)
Application process:
Current students on a Genomic Medicine stand-alone module at St George's should contact genomics@sgul.ac.uk to enquire into studying further modules.
Please note applications for all modules close one week before the module start date.
Page last updated 27/03/2025 01:34 PM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/healthcare-and-biomedical-education:
One year part-time
14 September 2025 (Decisions communicated w/c 29 September 2025)
City St George's, University of London - Tooting Campus
Accredited for recognition of Fellowship of Advance HE
22 October 2025
This Postgraduate Certificate in Healthcare and Biomedical Education is a part-time, professional development course tailored to those teaching in science and healthcare disciplines.
The course aims to:
The course is designed for new or early-career higher educators and practice-based teachers as well as those with more experience who want to extend their understanding of the theory and practice of university teaching and learning.
It aims to help you develop your approaches to teaching and assessment and support you to become a confident, scholarly, reflective professional, prepared for the opportunities and challenges you will encounter in your career as an educator in higher education.
As a specialist professional course, and to meet the requirements of our accreditation, applicants must fulfil our entry criteria as stated on the application site.
We do not accept applications from medical or academic Foundation Year doctors (e.g.
FY1, FY2).
For more information, please see the entry criteria tab .
Applicants for the HBE PgCert will normally meet the following entry requirements:
Your application (including your personal statement for the course) should clearly state how you meet the employment and teaching criteria.
Applicants who do not meet stated teaching and employment criteria will not normally be admitted to the course.
Admission to the course is normally very competitive.
Please note that because of the prioritisation of applicants during the admissions process we may not confirm an offer of a place until the advertised admissions window closes.
You will complete the following three modules to achieve the required 60 credits for the award of Postgraduate Certificate over a 12-month period.
Module 1: Principles of Healthcare and Science Education (Level 7, 15 Credits)
This module will introduce some of the ways in which learning theory can be used to develop principles of effective learning and teaching relevant to your practice in healthcare or science education.
The module will focus on practical opportunities to apply these to your teaching as well as support to evaluate the effectiveness and inclusiveness of your teaching and learning approaches.
Module 2: Practising Healthcare and Science Education (Level 7, 30 Credits)
Module 2 will build on the foundational principles of learning and teaching that were explored in Module 1 but with an emphasis on reflecting on your experiences of practising effective learning and teaching in a range of disciplinary contexts with diverse student cohorts.
We will consider both the design of learning and assessment as well as the strategies and approaches you use to teach in your disciplinary area, developing your capacity to evaluate practice, through collaboration with your peers, and identify evidence-based solutions to specific challenges you encounter.
Module 3: Continuing Professional Learning in Healthcare and Science Education (Level 7, 15 Credits)
The aim of the final module is to help you integrate and embed what you have learnt during the first two modules into your future professional learning and identity in the wider context of both your profession and higher education.
This is achieved through an experiential and reflective lens that supports you to plan your professional development as a basis for your future career as an educator.
You will also develop your capacity to undertake the scholarship of teaching in your subject area or professional field as the basis for continuing your learning during your career.
Teaching is undertaken through intensive teaching blocks rather than on a regular weekly or bi-weekly basis.
The 7 teaching blocks are normally 1 to 2 days in length depending on the module.
The total number of days of teaching for the course is 9.5 days over the 12-month enrolment in addition to induction.
We use a blended approach to the delivery of the course with, normally, one day onsite and one day online.
In both face-to-face and online teaching we use a combination of lecture, individual self-directed and peer-to-peer learning activities.
In addition, between teaching blocks you will receive focused individual tutorial support.
See our Provisional Timetable for the 2025-26 academic year (PDF).
Please note dates and mode of delivery may alter prior to the commencement of the course.
The timetable is provided as guidance of the typical timeline and requirements of the course.
The application timeline for Healthcare and Biomedical Education runs later than some of our other programmes to allow applicants to secure their professional positions before applying.
Please note that, due to staff sickness, decisions will not be communicated until at least the end of August with the majority being sent out in the week commencing 29 September 2025.
Before beginning your application please check the entry criteria of the course to ensure you meet the required standards.
Once you have created an account complete the application form and upload any relevant documents.
Your application must include the following information and relevant documents:
Applications that do not include this information will not be referred to the Admissions Tutor until this information is provided and this will delay a decision on your application.
Key application dates
From 2022, we no longer operate a full and reduced fee structure.
All applicants meeting the course entry criteria related to employment and teaching responsibilities will pay a single, subsidised fee of £1,700 .
The information on this admissions page regarding fees supersedes any outdated fee information provided from other sources.
If the course is a requirement for your academic probation or as part of a Clinical Teaching Fellowship then you should declare this in your application.
In these cases, the university or NHS Trust will normally pay your fees for the course.
If an alternative funder is not stated as part of your application, you will be invoiced by the university as a self-funding student.
On successful achievement of Fellowship recognition, applicants employed by non-Advance HE members are normally eligible for a one-off recognition fee of £220 payable directly to Advance HE if they wish to claim the Fellowship (FHEA) recognition.
This is normally the case for those who apply for the course under Category 2 or only hold an honorary contract from a university.
This is a condition of Advance HE accreditation policy and is in addition to the course fee.
For more information, see our fees and funding pages .
We are open to applications from three categories of applicants:
Category 1 applicants are City St George's employees teaching healthcare or science subjects who need or wish to obtain the PgCert HBE qualification.
This includes staff who are required to undertake the course as part of their probation.
Category 2 applicants are those primarily teaching City St George's students who are not employed by the University, most notably Clinical Teaching Fellows (CTFs) or those holding Clinical Education Fellowships with substantive teaching responsibilities.
Category 3 applicants are clinical or practice educators who teach City St George's students, hold a City St George's honorary contract and meet the teaching criteria stated above.
In addition to these employment requirements, applicants must also meet the other entry criteria for the course including teaching role requirements.
We do not accept applications from FY1 and FY2 doctors due to the teaching hours requirements for the course and expected clinical focus of the Foundation Programme.
We invite you to apply for the course at a later stage in your medical training.
If you are due to complete your Foundation Programme before the course commences in October you are eligible to apply as long as you meet or will meet the other entry criteria for the course.
Yes.
As university employees, postdoctoral researchers are included in this category and are eligible to apply, but subject to the approval of the grant holder/Principal Investigator for whom they are working, and only if consistent with the terms of the funding body.
The course is a practice-oriented qualification and all the assessments require you to develop and reflect on the teaching and assessment that you will be undertaking during the year.
You will also complete an assessed observation of your practice as an educator.
All applicants are required to evidence in their application and personal statement a substantive teaching and/or learning support role when making an application.
For applicants in Category 2 or Category 3 this is normally equivalent to 2 days of education-focussed activity per week (pro rata).
Educational activities to meet this entry requirement must be for undergraduate or postgraduate students enrolled on a higher education course and should not include clinical supervision or other post-registration continuing professional development teaching hours.
At least 50% of these teaching hours must be specifically for City St George's.
The course team are not able to arrange teaching opportunities for applicants to enable them to fulfil the teaching hours requirement.
Further opportunities for contributing to skills or PBL teaching and assessment (e.g.
OSCEs, SBAs, SAQs) at City St George’s may be advertised to participants at the beginning of the course.
The course has one intake and commences in October of each academic year.
If you complete the three modules within the normal schedule with no interruptions to study or extensions you will normally complete the course within a 12-month period.
In line with university regulations relating to the minimum length of the course, you cannot complete the PgCert HBE in a shorter period of time than stated in the course specification.
There are limited places on the course and therefore the admissions process is very competitive.
We also prioritise applications from Category 1 during admissions.
As a result, we normally do not finalise places until after the closing date for applications in September.
You will be notified if you have been offered a place shortly after the deadline and asked to confirm if you wish to take up this place.
We do not operate a full and reduced fee structure.
All applicants meeting the course entry criteria related to employment and teaching responsibilities will pay a single, subsidised fee of for the HBE PgCert.
as stated on the fees tab.
Yes, as long as your application is fully supported by your line-manager, the university will pay your fees.
The course is accredited by Advance HE and successful completion of the course and evidencing of your practice in relation to the Professional Standards Framework (2023) will entitle you to recognition as a Fellow of Advance HE.
If you are employed by a non-Advance HE member, you will normally need to pay an additional fee directly to Advance HE to register your Fellowship.
This fee is currently £220 and is not included in the PgCert course fee.
Most universities in the UK are members of Advance HE while NHS Trusts are not Advance HE members.
Upon successful completion of the course and ratification by the Board of Examiners in November each year, you will be registered by the course team on the Advance HE database of completers.
At this stage you will be asked to confirm your current employer.
If you are liable for this additional accreditation fee you will be invoiced directly by Advance HE.
Teaching is undertaken in intensive blocks rather than on a regular weekly or bi-weekly basis.
Dates for the next academic year are normally published in July/August.
Induction and pre-course reading will be provided from October.
We use a blended approach to the delivery of teaching blocks with, normally, one day onsite and one day online.
Subject to approval during reaccreditation, the modules are assessed as follows:
The course is assessed as Pass/Fail and all assessments must be passed to pass the course.
The PgCert HBE hours include attendance and/or completion of teaching blocks for the three modules, completion of the teaching observation, engagement with your allocated PgCert HBE tutor and preparation of assessments.
You are also expected to complete formative assessments and contribute to peer discussion and peer feedback activities as part of the course.
Module 2 is the longest module and is undertaken in the Spring term.
This can often clash with other commitments and you are strongly advised to work with your tutor and your line manager to plan your completion of the course.
If the information on the course application page and this Frequently Asked Questions document has not answered your question please email your query to Dr Saranne Weller , HBE PgCert Course Director.
Reader in Higher Education Practice and Development
Saranne Weller is Reader in Higher Education Practice and Development and has been Course Director of the Postgraduate Certificate in Healthcare and Biomedical Education since October 2018.
She brings to the course 23 years’ experience in the design and delivery of education development including short courses and postgraduate taught provision for early career educators.
She is the author of the textbook Academic Practice: Developing as Professional in Higher Education (2nd edition) (Sage, 2019).
Four year MSci in Biomedical Science with a full final year research project for students interested in discovering the science underlying our understanding of health and disease.
Duration: Four years, full time
Page last updated 22/07/2025 04:05 PM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/healthcare-research-skills-and-methods:
Part-time: One year
B210, institution code S49
This course covers:
You will gain an excellent foundation for critically understanding and evaluating research, its design, conduct, dissemination and funding, as well as acquiring knowledge of appropriate statistical methods.
And you will develop knowledge, practical skills and attitudes you need to become an effective healthcare researcher and conduct your own research.
Based at St George’s, University of London, with a strong research infrastructure and demonstrable research track record.
Shared campus with St George’s Hospital, one of the largest teaching hospitals in the UK.
Curriculum based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF).
Support to develop your clinical academic career.
Interprofessional education: Shared learning alongside all other postgraduate research courses, clinical and academic staff and researchers.
Interaction with researchers working at the cutting edge of specific areas of applied clinical research.
Access to postgraduate learning centre.
Development of a broad range of transferable skills.
You should normally have, or be expected to achieve, a minimum of a second class degree (2:2).
For healthcare graduates a pass is required.
All degrees must be awarded before 1 st August on the year of entry.
Prior training in quantitative or qualitative research methods is not required.
English language requirements
For details on English Language requirements, please see here .
On the Postgraduate Certificate in Healthcare Research Skills and Methods, you will be taught the essentials of conducting high quality research through a range of core and optional modules.
The Postgraduate Certificate consists of four modules, each worth 15 credits for a total 60 credits at level 7.
You will study three core modules (for one you choose from two options):
Research Methods
Statistics or Practical Data Analysis: Qualitative and Quantitative Approaches
Critical Appraisal.
You choose one optional module from the following list:
Research Project Planning and Management
Implementation and Improvement Science: Principles for Practice
Negotiated Independent Learning.
Research methods
critically evaluate the characteristics of high quality, ethical research
set realistic and appropriate aims, objectives and research questions for research projects
identify different types of study design, evaluate their strengths and weaknesses and select appropriate designs in practice
critically evaluate the importance of a range of study design issues including those related to evaluating and ensuring rigour in research
systematically review the published research evidence for a specific research question.
Lectures: 16 hours (face to face or option to access distant learning lecture recordings)
Presentations: 12 hours
Seminars: 12 hours
Self-directed study: 110 hours
Statistics
critically appraise the statistical methods used in research papers
analyse and interpret the results of the statistical analyses presented in research papers
critically appraise the inferences made based on the statistical analyses presented in research papers
choose and critique modern-day statistical techniques in order to analyse quantitative data when undertaking research projects at the postgraduate level
propose and synthesise suitable inferences based on the results of the statistical analysis of your own research data.
The module content is delivered via ten lectures.
Most lectures are followed by a tutorial in which you will be presented with short-answer questions based on the teaching material.
The first six lectures constitute the curriculum for the quantitative component of the Data Analysis module.
Lectures: 10 hours
Group work/discussion groups: 10 hours
Self-directed study: 130 hours.
Each Thursday, Term 1 (October to December).
Practical Data Analysis: Qualitative and Quantitative Approaches
critically analyse and apply a range of qualitative and quantitative approaches to data analysis, and select the most relevant approach for a given research question scenario
plan and implement practical analyses of both qualitative and quantitative datasets using a range of techniques, and using computer packages where appropriate
critically interpret the results of qualitative and quantitative data analysis, with reference to underlying methodology, study design, method of data collection, rigour and validity
synthesise theories of research designs with the relevant data analysis
identify, evaluate and select appropriate methods for presenting the results of qualitative and quantitative data analysis.
Qualitative tutorials/workshops: 7.5 hours (five 1.5 hour workshops)
Quantitative lectures: 6 hours (six 1 hour lectures)
Quantitative tutorials/computer workshops: 6 hours (four 1.5 hour tutorials)
Self-directed study: 130.5 hours
Each Thursday, Term 1 (October to December)
Critical Appraisal
identify the research paradigms and theoretical foundations underlying published research papers
critically evaluate the design, methods, analyses and conclusions of published papers
identify the strengths and weaknesses of contrasting approaches to research questions adopted in published papers
critically assess the contributions made by published papers they have evaluated to the current state of knowledge in their specialist field
make recommendations for further research resulting from an analysis of published work which they have evaluated.
Group work: 12 hours (journal clubs/teaching time)
MOOC*: 18 hours (3 to 6 hours per week study)
Self-directed learning: 120 hours
Seminars will be led by subject specialists within the specific course team and will be used to review papers relevant to the students’ field of study.
*3 week critical appraisal mass open online course (MOOC) created by St George's and faculty, where you work through the contents, comprising the indicative curriculum as outlined above, at a time convenient for yourself and at your own pace, before going into face to face supervisions and face to face/webinar journal clubs to practice implementing the skills and methods learned.
This module covers the knowledge, attributes and skills required to succeed as a professional researcher as defined in the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) , which is endorsed by organisations including Research Councils UK.
personal effectiveness
research governance and organisation
engagement, influence and impact.
appraise the framework for research governance and legislation affecting research
examine the need for ethical and other approval before commencing research
communicate effectively with supervisors, research participants, research team members and those giving permission for research
critically evaluate the implications of their work to health and safety and intellectual property legislation
communicate effectively by reflecting on the different perspectives in the research.
Lectures: 11 hours
Self-directed study: 139 hours
This module examines the practice of generating evidenced-based innovations and approaches to facilitating and sustaining effective implementation of policy and interventions in practice.
It draws on theory and practice from a broad range of other professional disciplines (eg sociology, management, behavioural psychology, science and technology).
This module will enable you to critically explore a range of strategies to help translate research findings into practice, considering them in the context of an ever-changing working environment and policy landscape.
When you’ve successfully completed this course, you will be able to:
critically discuss the concept and role of Implementation and Improvement Science in the context of health and social care, from patient and public, national and international perspectives
critically appraise the relevance and value of a range of implementation and improvement methodologies, frameworks and strategies, comparing and contrasting their relative merits and limitations
analyse situational context, critically evaluating how external factors, organisational culture, leadership and systems influence and impact on the process of change and adoption within practice
synthesise information from a variety of disciplines and sources, critically evaluating the best evidence for designing and delivering effective and safe care
demonstrate critical application of principles, theories and frameworks and develop strategies to overcome the challenges to the effective implementation of research findings
demonstrate the capacity to develop action plans, systematically measure outcomes, and effectively disseminate and reflect on ideas.
Key lectures: 25 hours
Small group/problem-based workshop: 20 hours
Student-led seminars: 10 hours
Individual tutorial: 1 hour
Self-directed study: 94 hours
10 sessions on Thursdays, Term 2
Negotiated Independent Learning
In this module, you will identify a topic that is of interest to you or pertinent to your practice or clinical role, in consultation with the module leader.
This will form the foundation of the module.
You will be assigned an academic tutor who will help you to formulate a personal learning plan, and will provide you with a series of tutorials along with the module leader.
The content of your study will depend on your topic, but you will complete a small series of tasks related to it which will help you to critically examine and apply key technological, clinical and theoretical principles related to your topic, synthesising information from a variety of sources and considering their implications for professional practice.
You will complete this module over a period of six months.
When you have successfully completed this module, you will be able to:
demonstrate performance and critically appraise personal learning and development as a consequence of independent learning, establishing future learning needs through the process of reflection
critically examine and apply key technological/clinical/theoretical principles associated with given area of learning
synthesise information from a variety of sources and consider its implications for professional practice
critically explore how the specified topic links to the context of health and social care and influences the development of professional practice
critically examine concepts of competence and expertise, and explore their relationship with professional development and practice.
Key lectures: 3 hours
Assessment briefing: 1 hour
Individual tutorials: 6 hours
Seminars: 2 hours
Independent guided study: 98 hours
Self-directed study: 40 hours
3 sessions on Thursdays, Terms 2 & 3
This course is taught in a flexible, modular, part-time structure, so that you can fit it around your busy schedule.
Teaching and learning methods
You will learn on this course via ‘blended learning’ which includes a wide variety of methods.
Face-to-face lectures and supervisions are interspersed with flipped classrooms, webinars, and online teaching (in a MOOC format).
Formal, teacher-led sessions will introduce new topics.
These give you an overview of subject matter, and review difficult concepts and summaries.
You are encouraged to ask questions, and will be set small problems that can be discussed interactively.
Lectures are filmed, and recordings will be made available.
The lectures are supplemented by tutorial sessions to make sure you have plenty of opportunity to ask questions and have discussions.
Online learning material for all modules will include lecture slides, recordings of lectures, reading lists and resources, links to videos and course information.
The core teaching for the Critical Appraisal module will be delivered via a three-week ‘massive online open course’ (MOOC), created by lecturers and hosted on the FutureLearn platform.
This includes articles, videos, narrated PowerPoints, discussions and quizzes.
Given the practical nature of this very important research skill, the MOOC core teaching will be followed by interactive small group seminars and journal clubs where you are encouraged and supported to develop and refine your appraisal skills, and your confidence in reaching balanced decisions about quality of evidence.
Your work will be assessed with both ‘formative assessments’, which monitor your progress, and ‘summative assessments’, which assess whether you have fulfilled the learning outcomes for this programme.
Assessment methods vary between modules, and will include presentations and written work.
Access our online application system
2025 UK (home): £4,650
2025 International (including EU): £9,650
A specialist, professionally-recognised teaching qualification in higher education practice that is tailored for those teaching in science and healthcare disciplines.
Duration: One year part-time
Page last updated 03/06/2025 11:47 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/heart-failure:
Two years part-time
No longer running for 2025 entry
students may apply
Heart failure is a growing epidemic and a rapidly evolving subspecialty within cardiology.
Our Heart Failure MSc is a structured international teaching programme and the first of its kind.
The population of patients with heart failure is growing, and heart failure is now the leading cause of hospitalisation among adults over 65.
An impressive advancement in the development of drugs and devices that prolong life expectancy in patients with heart failure has resulted in a significant demand for physicians with expertise in this important area.
While current awareness of heart failure among physicians is good, there remains a pressing need for experts to safely and effectively manage patients with this condition.
The Heart Failure MSc will provide you with a unique set of skills and knowledge to manage the increasingly complex patients with heart failure, developing you into a heart failure specialist.
By joining this course, you will gain the knowledge and skills needed to excel as a heart failure specialist, supported by leading experts in a renowned academic setting.
Unrestricted grants from our pharmaceutical partners AstraZeneca, Vifor Pharma, Bayer and Servier fund partial scholarships on this course.
Hear from Professor Andrew Coates, Past President of the Hearth Failure Association of the European Society of Cardiology, as he delivers a welcome message to Heart Failure MSc students at St George's, University of London.
This course offers a distinctive learning experience, delivered by a diverse team of experts:
You will develop a unique combination of skills:
The curriculum is designed to be current and comprehensive:
St George's offers a world-class learning environment:
You are required to have an MBBS (Medical Bachelor & Bachelor in Surgery) or equivalent for applicants with qualifications from outside of the UK.
You are also required to have two years of postgraduate clinical experience in cardiology and a documented familiarity with heart failure.
You may be asked to present evidence of competency that might include certification or a letter from your supervisor.
Degree certificates will need to be translated into English.
International applicants must satisfy the requirements of the UK government’s Visas and Immigration department in relation to St George’s responsibilities as a Tier 4 sponsor.
The MSc comprises of ten compulsory modules (12 credits each) and a research project with a thesis (60 credits).
It is structured to provide flexibility, catering to professionals who need to balance their studies with existing work commitments on a part-time basis.
To enhance flexibility, we employ a technology-rich model, delivering a substantial portion of learning materials online and providing resources to support self-directed learning and reflective practice.
The course utilises a diverse range of teaching and learning strategies:
This blend of strategies aims to foster an investigative, independent, and individualised approach to learning.
Students will undertake an extended research project, with the intention of producing at least one publication.
Heart Failure MSc sample timetable (PDF)
Epidemiology and Aetiology of Heart failure (12 credits)
This module will give you an in-depth understanding of the causes and aetiology of heart failure, along with an expert understanding of its epidemiology.
You will master the definitions of heart failure according to presentation, aetiology and results of diagnostic testing, and understand the possible differential diagnoses in patients presenting with suspected heart failure, including rarer causes including genetic, metabolic, toxic, pregnancy-related, infective, and infiltrative causes.
This module will help you develop the expertise required to implement the national and international guidelines with insight and to understand how to apply them to each individual patient.
Diagnosis of Heart Failure (12 credits)
This module provides you with a comprehensive experience of the cardiovascular evaluation of patients with suspected heart failure.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of how to evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of heart failure and of how to differentiate between alternative diagnoses and phenotypes of cardiac disease.
You will explore the indications and interpretation of a number of investigative modalities.
You will also gain an understanding of the value and challenges of biomarker testing and potential implications for the diagnosis and prognostication of patients with heart failure.
Therapy and Management of Heart Failure (12 credits)
This module will give you comprehensive theoretical and practical experience in managing patients with heart failure, underpinned by an in-depth understanding of the relevant international guidelines.
You will learn to develop critical responses to current national and international treatment guidelines and practices and be able to suggest new concepts and analyse the differences behind the different approaches for the prevention and treatment of heart failure.
You will gain a deep understanding of possible drug-drug interactions and the contra-indication of cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular therapies.
You will learn about the indications for device implantation within the therapeutic pathway and the current recommendations for emerging therapies in heart failure.
Co-morbidities in Heart Failure (12 credits)
This module gives you a detailed experience of the most common co-morbidities in patients with heart failure.
You will learn how to flexibly and creatively apply advanced methodological approaches to determine heart failure treatment strategies taking into account the varying importance of co-morbidities.
You will learn about the indications and interpretation of a number of investigative modalities for detection of the most common co-morbidities occurring in patients with heart failure.
You will also gain an understanding of frailty, sarcopenia and cachexia in heart failure and their implications in the therapeutic pathways.
Management of Arrhythmias and Device Therapies in Heart Failure (12 credits)
This module will give you comprehensive practical experience of the management of arrhythmias and the expert indication for device therapies in patients with heart failure.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of how to detect and manage potentially lethal arrhythmias, and you will explore the indications and interpretation of a number of devices for the treatment of arrhythmias in patients with heart failure.
You will also learn the value and challenges of electrophysiological testing and potential implications for the management of patients with heart failure.
Advanced Imaging in Heart Failure (12 credits)
This module will develop your knowledge and skills in heart failure-related imaging.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of how to evaluate patients with heart failure in different clinical scenarios using different imaging techniques.
You will explore the indications and interpretation of a number of investigative modalities including advanced echocardiography, cardiac MRI, CT coronary angiography and drug provocation testing.
You will also gain an understanding of the best indication of the different tests according to the different clinical presentations and patient characteristics.
Advanced Heart Failure and Advanced Therapy in Heart Failure (12 credits)
This module will give you broad practical knowledge of advanced therapy to be used in patients with advanced heart failure.
You will gain a thorough understanding of how to manage patients with advanced heart failure using both medical and device therapy.
You will explore the indications of a number of advanced therapies in heart failure including ultrafiltration, left ventricular assist devices and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
You will also gain an understanding of the correct timing to use left ventricular assist devices as both a bridge and as destination therapy.
Multi-disciplinary team management and end-stage heart failure (12 credits)
This module will develop your knowledge and skills in the multi-disciplinary management of patients with end-stage heart failure.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of current management and research into treatments and develop a detailed knowledge of the psychological impact of advanced heart failure treatment on the patient and their family.
You will learn to support effective communication within the multidisciplinary team in managing patient care by making appropriate connections with heart failure nurses, care of the elderly and general physicians, primary care physicians, palliative care services and pharmacists and how to organise multidisciplinary meetings to discuss patient care.
Acute Heart Failure (12 credits)
This module will develop your competences in the management of patients with acute heart failure.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of how to treat patients with acute heart failure according to the clinical presentation, and on how to reach a timely diagnosis.
You will explore the indications of different therapeutic strategies that can be adopted after phenotypisation of the patient.
You will also gain an understanding of the best indication of the different diagnostic tests and procedures to be applied according to the different clinical presentations and patient characteristics.
Cardiac Rehabilitation (12 credits)
This module is designed to enable you to develop the knowledge, skills and competencies required to organise, manage and deliver a Phase IV Cardiac Rehabilitation programme within a hospital or community setting.
The module has a special focus on the rehabilitation of patients with heart failure who want to manage their condition and deal with activities of daily living.
It is based on the European guidelines for cardiac rehabilitation, which promote evidence-based practice for patients who have had a known cardiac event.
You will gain knowledge of aspects of cardiac disease, be exposed to the multidisciplinary nature of effective cardiac rehabilitation services, and learn to modify rehabilitation programmes for patients with heart failure.
Research project (60 credits)
In this part of the course, you will plan, prepare and conduct research into a heart failure topic of your choosing.
You will then analyse, discuss and present the outcomes of your research.
The research project is a key component of the MSc and allows you to apply your newly developed skills and knowledge to a real-life clinical scenario.
The planning of the research task (including logistics, risk assessment and ethical approval, where appropriate) helps you to develop organisational skills.
The research itself gives you the opportunity to develop your skills in the collection, analysis, interpretation, evaluation and presentation of data in relation to current research in your chosen area of study.
You are encouraged to consider your area of interest as early as possible and to discuss these with your educational supervisor and course directors of the MSc.
You will be given a list of potential research areas and topics which you can choose your project from.
It should be based on one of the following types of research:
The research project is primarily self-directed study but students will can choose a local supervisor within their clinical institution and also receive support from the MSc faculty to ensure appropriate methological expertise.
Join our innovative MSc in Heart Failure and experience a dynamic learning journey tailored to your needs as a healthcare professional.
Our course offers a diverse range of teaching and learning strategies designed to enhance your expertise and advance your career:
We've crafted this programme to support your growth towards greater self-direction in your studies.
You'll gain valuable insights into your learning style and take charge of your professional development.
Our approach fosters an investigative, independent, and individualised learning experience, preparing you to undertake an impactful research project.
Your personal and professional growth is at the heart of our programme.
Through academic study, self-directed learning, reflective assessments, and a supervised research project, you'll develop the skills needed to excel in the field of heart failure management.
Our e-learning platform, complete with online assessments, allows for a flexible, self-paced educational style that fits around your busy schedule.
From day one, you'll be assigned a dedicated educational supervisor who will be your main point of contact throughout the course.
They'll monitor your academic progress, support your welfare, assist with any challenges you may face, and ensure you're on track to achieve your goals.
Our Course Directors, Giuseppe M.C.
Rosano and Robin Ray have a world-renowned reputation in Heart Failure.
Professor Giuseppe Rosano is President-elect of the Heart Failure Association (HFA) and currently the chairman of the Online education committee of the HFA as well as the congress program committee member for the Heart Failure section of the European Society of Cardiology.
He has been the Chairman of the Heart Failure Congress 2016 in Florence that scored a record number of registration in the excess of 6100 participants.
He is also chairman of the Diabetes and Hypertension Committee of the Heart Failure Association, Associated Editor of the European Journal of Heart Failure and Deputy Editor of Cardiac Failure Reviews.
Dr Robin Ray leads education in Heart Failure at a European level and is a member of the Committee on online education of the Heart Failure Association (HFA) and is actively involved in the development of the on-line educational material in heart failure for the European Society of Cardiology (ESC).
He has also had an interest in the education of allied health professionals and has organised national and local heart failure training days for nurses.
Dr Ray, in conjunction with his colleagues at St George’s Hospital in London, has set up the largest acute heart failure unit in the country.
This is a pioneering centre which has attracted much attention nationally with excellent clinical outcome data.
He is a PI on numerous phase 2 and phase 3 heart failure trials.
Dr Fadi Jouhra joined the team in 2021 and is a consultant cardiologist and honorary senior lecturer at St George’s.
Dr Jouhra had specialist training in cardiology at leading teaching hospitals in London, including King’s College, St Georges and St Thomas’ Hospitals.
He specialises in complex cardiac devices and heart failure.
He has a special interest in implanting biventricular pacemakers and defibrillators (ICD) that deliver cardiac resynchronisation (CRT) for heart failure patients.
This MSc is the UK’s first Master’s-level qualification in heart failure.
With a Master’s degree in Heart Failure, you will demonstrate to potential employers your advanced expertise and commitment to excellence in heart failure management.
In today's healthcare landscape, where efficient resource utilisation is paramount, professionals with specialised qualifications are increasingly valued.
Your expertise will be crucial in ensuring that investigations and treatments are conducted with optimal efficiency and effectiveness.
This degree will set you apart from your peers and open doors to exceptional career opportunities within national health systems.
For physicians, this MSc will elevate your career prospects beyond your current cardiology experience.
You'll be ideally positioned for roles that demand the skills of a heart failure specialist, allowing you to take on leadership positions in this critical area of cardiovascular medicine.
Whether you aim to lead a specialist heart failure unit, contribute to ground-breaking research, or shape policy in heart failure care, this qualification will provide you with the knowledge and credibility to achieve your career goals.
Graduates from St George’s have access to support from the careers service for two years after graduation.
Learn more about applying for postgraduate study at St George's.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/interpretation-and-clinical-application-of-genomic-data:
Two years, maximum of four years to complete
Applications closed for 2024 entry
September 2024
The course consists of four modules which are firmly embedded in the Clinical Genetics training pathway; utilising but restructuring training, so that it runs in parallel with full-time clinical duties and embeds academic teaching with clinical application.
The course will enable you to feel proficient in the interpretation of genomic data, and confident in making clinical management decisions on the basis of your interpretation.
It will also provide you with the knowledge, skills and attitudes to disseminate your expert knowledge through the wider medical workforce.
Bespoke training for clinical geneticists.
Teaching runs in parallel with full time clinical duties and embeds academic teaching with clinical application.
Part of a package of genomic educational initiatives run through the University.
St George’s ranked joint 8th in the UK for research impact in 2021 in the Times Higher Education REF2021 Impact Scores.
You must also hold a national training number (NTN) in clinical genetics.
The Interpretation and Clinical Application of Genomic Data PgCert consists of four modules to equip you with the necessary skills and knowledge to advance your understanding in the interpretation and clinical application of genomic data.
Clinical Interpretation of Genomic Data
Communication of Genetic Information and Ethics
Personal and Professional Development Portfolio
Understanding Genetic Technologies
The aim of the Interpretation and Clinical Application of Genomic Data PgCert is to develop you into a self-reliant and autonomous learner, capable of independent and novel thinking, having developed the skills to enable you to apply your learning to clinical practice.
The learning objectives of this course will be achieved through a teaching scheme delivered through three key domains: knowledge, skills and attitudes.
You will learn through both face-to-face/online teaching sessions and workshops, and self-directed study online and with library resources.
Your knowledge base will then provide a platform to develop your skills of data interpretation in the context of clinical phenotyping.
This will primarily be achieved through engagement at workshop sessions, assignments and developing your portfolio.
The third domain, attitude, emphasises the need for you to develop your skills in effectively communicating complex genomic data and discussing ethical considerations such as the identification of incidental findings.
For modules one to three, there will be up to two summative assessments.
Formative assessment will be provided in the form of regular meetings with your educational/laboratory supervisor.
Each assessment has specific assessment criteria which will be published in the student handbook.
Summative assessments include one oral presentation, two written assignments, an online multiple-choice question (MCQ) examination, and communication role play.
Module four contains assignments which enable you to apply theory to your clinical activities and allow you to demonstrate advanced application of your knowledge and skills within your own professional practice environment.
2024 entry: £1,050
Page last updated 27/03/2025 02:00 PM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/professional-practice-in-mammography:
September entry deadline: 24 August 2025
Blended delivery - online and City St George's Tooting campus
September 2025 and March 2026
Our dedicated and highly experienced teaching team at St George's National Breast Education Centre have been supporting students achieve this goal for many years, are dedicated to the continuing development of the profession and the skills you require to work and succeed for your patients and clients within the service.
The contemporary and evidence-based nature of the programme structure reflects current workforce development needs and training requirements within Mammography.
St George’s, University of London, in collaboration with the Rose Breast Education Centre, St George’s NHS Foundation Trust are delighted to provide the high quality support and training required to enable Radiographers to work within the NHS Breast Screening Programme as a Mammographer.
If you are training to become a Consultant Mammographer or access advanced practice training, you may be interested in our Advanced Breast Practice MSc .
The Professional Practice in Mammography PgCert comprises two mandatory core modules, undertaken concurrently, both must be passed successfully in order to be awarded the PgCert.
No optional modules are required as all necessary content to confer the ability to work as a Mammographer within the NHS Breast Screening Programme will be included within the two core modules.
Initial online teaching is supported by clinical practice and mentorship primarily based at your place of employment, this is supported by the excellent clinical and academic teams at the Rose Centre and St George’s, University of London.
Assessment is completed through a combination of written work, clinical competency assessment and reflective practice.
The PgCert is completed in one year.
You should have or be expected to achieve, an honours degree in Diagnostic Radiography or Therapeutic Radiography, or equivalent degree title.
We accept equivalent qualifications gained in other countries, please see our Postgraduate International Equivalencies .
This course is delivered by St George’s, University of London section of Diagnostic Radiography in collaboration with the Rose Breast Education Centre, St George’s NHS Foundation Trust.
All advanced practice and PgCert modules are assessed through a combination of written assignments, procedure logbooks, reflective practice and clinical examinations.
Successful completion of the Professional Practice in Mammography PgCert will confer the right to work within the NHS Breast Screening Programme as a Mammographer.
Mammographers may choose to continue their development in the future with advanced practice and Consultant Mammography.
Please note that applicants holding a Tier 2 visa, and with evidencable appropriate access to practice with patients of the NHS Breast Screening Programme, will be eligible for ‘Home’ fees (above) despite being assessed as an Overseas student for visa purposes.
Choose the relevant application link from the following options and create an account:
When you have checked that your application is complete and accurate, click ‘ submit ’.
Provides the opportunity and support for Mammographers to develop into the role of Consultant Mammographers and Advanced Practitioners.
Duration: MSc three years, part-time | PgCert one year, part-time
Page last updated 16/06/2025 09:18 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/occupational-therapy-pre-registration:
Two years, full time
14 January 2026 (2026 entry)
Health & Care Professionals Council (HCPC), Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT) and World Federation of Occupational Therapists (WFOT)
B921, institution code S49
August 2026
Occupational therapy is a very rewarding profession in which you will make a real difference to people’s quality of life.
Occupational therapists work with people of all ages to enable them to participate in the daily activities that are important to them.
You will work with people with a range of physical and mental health challenges in settings as diverse as schools, prisons, hospitals, the community and many more.
City St George’s, University of London Tooting campus is co- located with one of the largest teaching hospitals in the UK, St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Accelerated, two-year programme offering a master’s level route into occupational therapy.
NHS funding offers eligible new and continuing students on this course £5,000 maintenance grant each year.
This course is accredited by the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT) and the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), ensuring it meets the educational standards set by the professional and regulatory bodies.
Students are eligible to apply for The Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) registration to practice on successful completion of the course.
Benefit from well-established links with local NHS and social care organisations.
Cutting-edge facilities include our dedicated Art of Living Suite with simulated kitchen and bathroom, which enable you to learn skills for practice within a safe environment, as well as access to our pathology museum, and Anatomy suite.
Sharing our campus with a teaching hospital, St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, means you will be surrounded by like-minded students and immersed in a healthcare environment.
You will be surrounded by like-minded individuals, helping to build your multidisciplinary understanding and context.
Accidents, illness, disability, mental health issues and ageing affect millions of people all over the world, making it harder for them to do everyday activities, including education, work, leisure or caring for themselves.
By working with service users, for example, teaching them new ways to do things, identifying specialist equipment and assistive technology, or making changes in their environment, occupational therapists enable people with a diverse range of needs to live life to the fullest and do what matters most to them.
On our degree, learning is very much hands-on, developing your communication skills and preparing you for practice initially in simulated environments, including our dedicated Art of Living Suite, and subsequently on practice placements in an array of different settings.
You’ll deepen your knowledge of the human body and how it works through practical sessions in our Anatomy suite.
By combining theoretical knowledge with practical experience, this course explores concepts, principles, and theories of occupational therapy and occupational science, human development, anatomy, physiology, and psychology to develop a strong foundation to practice as an Occupational Therapist (OT).
You’ll quickly realise that no day is ever the same for an ‘OT’ – you may find yourself helping someone rehabilitate after major surgery or providing the adaptations which enable the elderly to stay in their own homes, or supporting someone with mental illness, addiction, or learning disabilities.
Over the course of two years, you will spend 1,000 hours, which is approximately a third of your time on the programme, on placement in and around London in a range of different settings to broaden your experience.
These reflect the evolving nature of the profession and may include a wide variety of settings, for example, acute trusts, community settings, schools, local authorities, social enterprises, charities, and non-traditional placements.
“From the second you walk through the door, the staff at St George's are incredibly supportive and encouraging every step of the way throughout your learning experience.
Our class bonded really well and we have a lot of fun as well as being there to provide support for each other.”
- Sharon
Occupational Therapy BSc
To be eligible for the Occupational Therapy MSc programme, you must meet the requirements outlined under Entry Qualifications, Other Academic Requirements, and Non-academic Requirements below.
You should have or be expected to achieve, a minimum of a 2:1 Honours Degree in any subject.
Experience of the research process and/or completion of an undergraduate research project is essential.
Personal Statement
You will be asked to submit a personal statement with your application.
This statement should outline your reasons for applying for the course, demonstrate evidence of experience and what transferable skills you learnt from this experience.
The personal statement will be considered at various stages in the application process including if you are invited to interview.
You will need to provide one reference.
This should be an academic or professional reference.
See the 'Apply' tab for more information.
Through the application process, you will need to demonstrate appropriate personal qualities, motivation, communication skills and understanding of an occupational therapist’s role.
Due to the demanding nature of the programme, it is important that applicants can demonstrate recent engagement in education.
If the qualifications that you are applying on the basis of (e.g.
Level 3 or degree level qualifications) were awarded more than five years ago (e.g.
This two year MSc Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration) Occupational Therapy degree involves four successive practice placements with a total of 1,000 hours, which represents approximately a third of the programme.
This is an intensive programme which is 45 weeks per year.
Your studies will incorporate university and practice-based learning.
University-based teaching is problem-based, using an interactive, integrated and self-directed approach to learning the philosophy, underpinning theories and evidence for occupational therapy.
Problem-based learning helps students to gain the evaluation skills relevant to masters level, such as critical thinking and analysis.
Problem-based learning sessions will be in small groups and facilitated by a member of the occupational therapy team.
Students will consider real-life situations relevant to professional practice.
Additional learning activities such as practical sessions, seminars, debates, self-directed learning and guest lectures are scheduled to integrate the skills, theories and evidence required to provide a solution to the real-life scenario.
There is a strong emphasis on the relationship between health, well-being, participation and human occupations, as well as occupational justice.
Students will be encouraged to consider how occupational therapy skills and perspectives can be used in a range of education, health and social care settings, with both groups and communities.
Watch the Occupational Therapy (Pre-registration) webinar from our postgraduate virtual event.
The range and volume of placement opportunities we offer is what students tell us they like most about occupational therapy programmes – practice placements are undertaken in a variety of health and social care environments, including acute NHS hospital trusts, community-based services, mental health services, social care, non-statutory provision and children’s services.
The supervised, hands-on experience you get with service users and patients on placement is the best way to consolidate your learning.
You will gain experience of working as part of a team, demonstrating professional behaviour, and implementing a range of occupational therapy assessments and interventions.
Over the two years of the programme, you will be expected to undertake a minimum of 28 weeks of placement, with full-time working hours.
On placement, you are supervised by a practice educator who will facilitate your learning.
You receive support from your University link tutor who will meet with you at least once during the placement and provide support as needed.
You should be prepared to travel for your placements within the London/Greater London area.
Below are some examples of where our students have attended practice placements.
Placement examples*
*This list is subject to change and should be used as a guide of where students may be able to go
To excel and work effectively as an occupational therapist, you need practical, personal, and professional knowledge and expertise, together with enthusiasm, patience, the ability to make people feel swiftly at ease and think quickly on your feet.
On our degree, you will build a portfolio of clinical and professional skills and competencies, to the standard expected by professional organisations.
We pay particular attention to developing your critical thinking and practical skills.
You will learn how to critically analyse and use the evidence base in clinical practice.
In addition, you will spend time practising how to use equipment on other students and mannequins, for example, learning basic life support, doing wheelchair or sliding board transfers, making splints, building your confidence to deal with patients and relatives.
One of the many benefits of studying at City St George’s is the opportunity to study and work with students on other healthcare-related courses, including medical, physiotherapy, diagnostic and therapeutic radiography, to lay the foundation for future practice as part of a clinical multidisciplinary team.
This collaborative inter-professional education helps you develop invaluable communication and team-building skills and appreciate the roles and responsibilities of other professionals.
You will be taught by staff with extensive experience of working in practice, teaching and research, who will share their up-to-date knowledge and experience in specialist areas including mental health, neurology, trauma, orthopaedics, children and families.
Where possible we invite carers, service users or patients to talk to you directly about their own experiences, for example, their lived experience of occupational therapy and the importance of participating in their occupations.
Capitalising on our contacts with a range of organisations, we invite practitioners to deliver teaching sessions on specialist areas of practice (for example, palliative care) and evolving areas of occupational therapy practice (for example, working with refugees).
City St George’s has a dynamic research culture, with teams working to improve the health of people of all ages, from children to the elderly, in populations locally and globally.
Students will receive feedback after each of their module assessments, which may include an Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE), an examination, written analyses and reports, presentations, research proposals and projects.
Students are assessed separately in professional practice placements blocks by their nominated assessor.
While the City St George’s courses are recognised by many different countries, applicants are advised to check with their own individual national authorities if they wish to practise in their chosen country .
More occupational therapists are needed across the UK to help address the growing number of people who need their support now, as well as those who will require it in the future.
Career prospects are excellent with opportunities for career progression within the NHS and other settings through professional practice and development into Senior Occupational Therapist and Advanced Practitioner roles, as well as progression into management, education and training, or academic career pathways.
If you are an EU or non-EU (international) applicant, you should check with the professional registration body in your country to ensure that you will be eligible to practise there.
As well as working with individual patients and their families, you could also work with groups and communities, or as part of a multidisciplinary team in hospitals, clinics, charities, prisons and social services departments.
As you gain experience, you may opt to specialise in a particular area of practice such as mental health, hand therapy, elderly care or paediatrics.
The skills you’ll develop could lend themselves to new emerging roles too, such as working with asylum seekers or refugees, the police or the fire services.
There are many exciting opportunities for career advancement, further study or research, including further postgraduate study at City St George’s on our MSc Rehabilitation course.
Career examples
Graduates from City St George’s have access to support from the careers service for two years after graduation.
City St George’s, University of London Tooting campus is co-located with one of the largest teaching hospitals in the UK.
This is also where Channel 4 television series 24 hours in A&E is filmed) We offer a unique opportunity to study and work alongside the full range of clinical professionals and their patients.
This specifically designed teaching facility for occupational therapy has adapted, functioning kitchen and simulated bathroom facilities, in addition to specialist equipment so that you can practise assessment and intervention skills.
You can use these resources to access your course materials, discussion boards, assessment and feedback through Canvas.
Whether you are heading off to university straight from another university or returning to education as a mature student, we want to ensure your experience is positive from the outset.
At City St George’s, you’ll be welcomed by a multicultural student and staff body of different ages, ethnicities, nationalities, and backgrounds, all with one thing in common – an interest in healthcare.
We offer a full range of academic support and student services across all institutes, departments, and faculties, some of which are listed below.
On arrival, you will be allocated a personal tutor, who is a member of the programme team, someone with whom you can have regular contact, who you ask questions and discuss problems with, both academic and personal.
Even if they don’t have the answer, they will point you in the right direction towards the best people to deal with specific problems.
Within your first week at City St George’s, you’ll take part in an induction programme to help with your orientation and introduce you to various study skills and support available to you.
Placement in practice is formalised through a placement management agreement.
Whilst on placement, an allocated practice educator will facilitate your learning.
One of our occupational therapy lecturers will also be your link tutor and will meet with you and the practice educator at least once during the placement and offer support as needed.
Our Student Life Centre team can help you with almost any aspect of student life: finances, accommodation, exams and assessment, academic procedures, admissions, international queries, careers, disability and wellbeing, even finding your way around – whatever it takes to make you feel at home.
In previous years, we have held a careers fair for Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy students, which has included presentations from occupational therapists from local trusts as potential future employers, as well as opportunities for students to practise various skills in preparation for job applications (including writing CVs and interview skills).
Apply to create an account on the NHS Learning Support Fund website to stay updated.
Home (UK) student fees
£19,070
For more information, see our fees and funding pages.
*Tuition fees for home (UK) students are determined by UK Government policy .
Fees for second and subsequent years are likely to increase annually in line with UK inflation as measured by the Retail Price Index (RPI-X) and subject to maximum regulated fee rates set by the UK Government.
International (including EU) student fees
Fees for second and subsequent years are likely to increase annually in line with UK inflation as measured by the Retail Price Index (RPI-X) and will not normally increase by more than 5% each year, except when the rate of inflation is significantly more than that projected in the preceding year.
DBS - £40 Post office verification - £6 Administration fee - £9
Clothing
Students will require a lab coat for use in wet labs, these can be purchased from the SU - £10.
Uniforms are provided by the University; replacement uniforms are paid for by the student at £30 per full set.
Membership
Student Membership with the Royal College of Occupational Therapists is optional but highly encouraged - £5.05 per month.
Travel to placements
You should expect to spend approximately £800 - £2,000 on travel to placements for the duration of your course.
If you qualify for the UK government Learning and Support fund you maybe able to claim travel and accommodation costs (if the cost of travelling to placement is more than the cost of travelling to university) and accommodation (only if it has been agreed that it would be impractical to travel to placement daily).
If you qualify for the UK government Learning and Support fund you may be eligible to receive a training grant of £5,000 per academic year to help with maintenance and associated study costs and an additional £1,000 for studying a specialist subject.
Visit the NHS BSA website for more information .
Number of scholarships
Each scholarship amount
Scholarship payment
Who is eligible?
There is no separate application process to postgraduate scholarships.
In order to be considered for a postgraduate scholarship, you must submit an application for an eligible programme.
Your submission will then be reviewed against the scholarship eligibility criteria.
The deadline for scholarship applications is Wednesday 31 January 2024.
You must ensure that your application is complete and submitted by this date in order to be considered for funding.
To be deemed complete, it must contain all the relevant supporting documentation required by the programme applied to, such as references, transcripts and English language scores.
Eligibility criteria
Please note scholarships cannot be deferred to 2025 or later entry.
Applicants with the highest scores across all courses will be considered for the scholarship and may be invited for interview.
Assessment criteria
If you are a Home (UK) or International (EU or non-EU) applicant applying for a taught postgraduate programme which has a scholarship, you will be automatically considered for the scholarship, providing you apply by the deadline (31 January 2024).
You do not need to submit an additional application form.
However, you may be asked to attend a physical or virtual interview.
Successful candidates will be those whom the Scholarship Committee consider will make a positive contribution to the academic environment at St George's and achieve the highest scores.
Your application will be scored based on:
Apply for this course through UCAS (the University and College Admissions Service) by the UCAS January deadline in the year of entry .
To apply for this course you must complete an Undergraduate UCAS application.
When you have started the Undergraduate UCAS application, it will be possible to add this course as a choice by selecting ‘add choice’ and then inputting the institution and course title/code.
Please be aware that if you attempt to complete a Postgraduate UCAS application, this course will not appear as a course choice on the form and it will not be possible to apply.
Immerse yourself in an interactive degree where you will be supported to learn all the knowledge and skills you need to become a capable and confident physiotherapist.
Duration: Three years, full-time
Radiotherapy and Oncology BSc equips you with the skills, knowledge and technical expertise needed to plan and deliver radiotherapy.
Page last updated 23/06/2025 10:36 AM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/physician-associate-studies:
Two years full-time
BB96, institution code S49
On the UK’s longest continuously running Physician Associate Studies programme, you will learn how to take medical histories, perform physical examinations, request and analyse investigations, diagnose illnesses and develop treatment and management plans.
It is a challenging but incredibly rewarding experience.
The course has an outstanding pass rate on the Physician Associate National Exam.
The MPAS programme is delivered by a multi-professional team including physician associates (PAs), many of whom are alumni, doctors, lecturers from across the university programmes and visiting specialists.
City St George’s shares its campus with one of the largest teaching hospitals, making it the ideal place to study the Master's in Physician Associate Studies (MPAS).
With unrivalled access to clinical resources and working professionals, the course will fully equip you with all the skills and knowledge required to support doctors in the diagnosis and management of patients.
We are invested in supporting the profession nationally and many members of the teaching team have held roles with the professional membership body, the Faculty of Physician Associates.
We feel that an active presence in different national groups demonstrates our commitment to the profession and to excellence which, in turn, will encourage our students to become informed, professional and outstanding physician associates.
A postgraduate-level qualification for life science graduates who wish to become Physician Associates.
Our Physician Associate Studies course offers students:
Following the Leng Review in July 2025, a series of recommendations outlining the proposed future direction of the Physician Associate (PA) role within the NHS were released.
One of the recommendations includes a potential name change for the profession to 'Physician Assistant'.
These proposals are subject to implementation by the Department for Health and Social Care and the General Medical Council.
We will closely monitor any developments that may impact the delivery of our programme and will update our programme accordingly to reflect any changes.
To be eligible for the Physician Associate Studies programme, you must meet the requirements outlined under entry qualifications , other academic requirements and non-academic requirements below.
Please note, we only accept applications for deferred entry in exceptional circumstances.
The steps below outline our general admissions process and the way by which we determine which applicants will receive an offer to study the Physician Associate Studies MPAS at City St George’s.
*The use of UCAT for the MPAS programme is in its infancy.
For 2025 entry, we may consider applicants who have not sat the UCAT at the point of application.
However, achieving the UCAT minimum requirements would form part of the applicant's conditional offer, if successful at the MMI stage.
If your degree was awarded before this time, we may consider Recent Engagement in Education or relevant work experience.
You should have, or be expected to achieve, a minimum of a second-class degree (2.2) in a life science or health care undergraduate degree, which includes, at minimum, a level 4 module of human physiology.
Human Physiology is a necessity for all applicants.
Please see below for a list of degree titles that are considered to contain suitable levels of Human Physiology content.
Examples of degrees that are considered suitable are:
Biomedical Sciences and Life Sciences
- that include human physiology modules
Anatomical Science
Applied Medical Sciences
Biochemistry*
Biological Science
Human Anatomy
Human Biology
Human Physiology
Microbiology
Neuroscience*
Pharmacy*
Psychology*
Health Sciences
Allied Health Professions, inc.
Audiology
Diagnostic Imaging
Physiotherapy
Paramedic Studies
Radiotherapy
Dentistry
Midwifery
Nursing
Optometry*
Sport and Exercise Science*
*Transcripts will be reviewed to ensure adequate levels of human biology and human physiology have been covered in these degrees.
Those not meeting the requirements will not be interviewed.
Please note that at present graduates of UK Physician Associate Studies programmes are not eligible to work as Physician Associates in other countries.
Both the section scores and the overall cut-off score should be met.
If you are applying with a degree from outside of the UK, you will need to meet the English language requirements here .
This is a Group 3 course.
Personal Statement and References
This statement should outline your reasons for applying to the MPAS, demonstrating evidence of experience and the transferable skills you gained from this.
Your personal statement may be read as part of your application.
MMR (measles, mumps and rubella)
Meningococcal meningitis
Diphtheria
Pertussis (whooping cough)
Poliomyelitis
Tetanus
Previous Studies in Physician Associates Studies or a Clinical Course
If you studied but did not complete a Physician Associate Studies, or another clinical course, please provide formal evidence as to why you withdrew when you apply, and no later than 1 February in the year of application.
*For 2026 entry, we may consider applicants who have not sat the UCAT at the point of application.
For 2026 entry, we may consider applicants who have not sat the UCAT at the point of application.
The test will comprise of 3 cognitive subtests (Verbal Reasoning, Decision Making and Quantitative Reasoning) alongside the Situational Judgement Test.
We operate a modular system for this course which means the qualification is obtained by a process of credit accumulation – a model used on courses throughout the UK and Europe.
The course is designed to cover all aspects of the new curriculum as outlined by the Faculty of Physician Associates .
It has been developed with the General Medical Council (GMC) and the PA schools council (PASC) to include the appropriate content required for graduates to succeed at the PA registration assessment (PARA).
Year one
The first year is dedicated to anatomy, clinical sciences, pathophysiology and pharmacology, with weekly problem-based learning designed to assimilate learning through application to clinical cases.
Following a systems-based approach we deliver clinical examination and communication skills in small group sessions which focus on the body system being taught in that block.
We begin with ear, nose and throat (ENT) and then target the ‘big three’: cardiovascular, respiratory and gastrointestinal.
The majority of themes are covered in two to four-week blocks, with a large amount of information delivered in each.
Teaching is delivered across four days using a blended learning approach with a mixture of online remote and on campus sessions.
At various stages in Year 1 you will supplement your learning by attending clinical placement.
Year two
The second year opens with intensive clinical and procedural skills training to prepare you for secondary care rotations.
You will learn skills such as ECG interpretation, suturing, cannulation and advanced communication skills in simulation with actors.
You will return to campus intermittently for teaching days but the emphasis shifts towards clinical work and placements, with the majority of the year spent in hospital and a long block in a GP surgery.
The modules for this course are integrated; your learning throughout one module will significantly inform and influence your learning in another module.
The course consists of eleven modules totalling 180 credits at level seven.
Applied Pharmacology (15 credits)
This module lays the basis for future prescribing activity and ensures you have a good understanding of common drugs and their effects.
(Please note that PAs do not yet have prescribing rights in the UK.
However, strong pharmacology knowledge is essential for PA practice.)
Evidence-Based Practice in Healthcare (15 credits)
This module enables you to locate and evaluate evidence underpinning decision-making in healthcare and to develop your skills in critically appraising this evidence.
Foundations of Clinical Medicine (Year 1: 30 credits; Year 2: 15 credits)
This module runs across both years and covers integrated body systems, pathology, differential diagnosis skills, models of decision-making, and applications of the underpinning sciences to patient conditions.
It also provides an overview of the clinically relevant elements of human anatomy, biochemistry, immunology, microbiology, pathology and physiology
Investigations in Clinical Medicine (Year 1: delivery; Year 2: delivery and assessment: 15 credits)
This module runs across both years of the course and addresses the common and pertinent investigations relating to the clinical practice of a Physician Associate.
You will learn about the role of clinical investigations and their relevance in relation to common and important presentations in clinical practice.
It will involve analysis of common investigations performed in primary and secondary care.
Personal and Professional Development for Physician Associates (Year 1: 30 credits; Year 2: 15 credits)
This module runs throughout the two years.
Students will be taught and assessed on their clinical communication and examination skills and core procedural skills.
They will explore reflective practice and professional values amongst many other values outlined in the PANE/PARA curriculum.
The module uses simulation to support learning which can range from low to high fidelity.
Physician Associate Applied Clinical Knowledge and Skills (Year 1: 15 credits; Year 2: 30 credits)
This module facilitates the application of clinical knowledge and examination skills with appropriate supervision from suitably qualified and skilled clinicians in real clinical environments, preparing you for entry into professional practice.
PA as A Professional Evaluation Report (Year one: Pass or Fail Year 2 Pass or Fail; 0 Credits)
The PA as Professional Evaluation Report assesses your progress in developing appropriate attitudes, behaviours and skills and your ability to apply them in the academic and clinical environment.
As a PA student you are expected to demonstrate the same standard of professionalism as any qualified healthcare professional.
This module runs across both years of the programme.
Teaching at City St George’s is delivered through a compelling and engaging variety of methods including lectures, problem-based learning, self-directed learning, small group discussions, clinical and community placements, role-playing, and presentations.
On the MPAS programme we use a 'blended learning' approach to support the delivery of the educational content.
This is a mixture of 'live' online face-to-face teaching, self-directed and directed learning and also on-site teaching and clinical placements.
We run remote learning on several days throughout the year and this allows students to manage their time without commuting to campus every day.
We feel that blended learning reflects real medical practice, with many clinicians offering remote consultations.
With a small group of peers, you will be assigned a tutor to support you working through different clinical cases each week.
You will use self-directed research to complete the learning objectives and proceed through each case and make suggestions on the appropriate management.
Problem-based learning encourages learning in context and a deep, rather than surface, understanding.
MPAS requires a significant amount of self-directed study, outside of teaching hours.
In the first year, lectures are complemented by group work, designed to develop clinical and communication skills.
As part of your clinical placement rotations, you will be allocated a GMC registered clinical supervisor who is either a General Practitioner or Consultant and they will support you in developing your skills development throughout your GP placement.
In the second year, you'll continue community placements, as well as rotating through core clinical placements, including:
Assessments are designed to prepare you for the Physician Associate Regulated Assessment (PARA), ultimately for professional practice.
They include a mixture of knowledge-based assessments and Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCE).
The PA Applied Knowledge and Skills module includes workplace-based assessments and a clinical case presentation.
While the City St George’s programmes are recognised by many different countries, applicants are advised to check with their own individual national authorities if they wish to practise in their chosen country .
When you graduate with a Master’s in Physician Associate Studies from City St George’s you will have gained a breadth of experience that can lead to a varied and exciting career.
The course is very demanding but incredibly rewarding and fulfilling.
Our multidisciplinary approach means that by the end of it you will be able to:
safely practice in a wide variety of clinical settings within your scope of practice and under agreed supervision
be an excellent communicator who is empathic in a manner appropriate to a healthcare professional
critically examine health inequalities and the challenges of working in a multicultural environment
be aware of the limits of your competence and committed to acting within these limits
critically evaluate the context of multi-professional working in a team environment
be adept in the use of communication and information technology skills for healthcare
critically appraise the evidence underpinning your practice
be a capable and motivated lifelong learner who is continually engaged in active professional development
understand the need to maintain and promote health, as well as to cure or palliate disease, and be aware of your obligations to the wider community, as well as to individuals
integrate theoretical and clinical learning.
You may find these links helpful in exploring the Physician Associate role:
Apply for this course through UCAS (the University and College Admissions Service) by the UCAS January deadline in the year of entry.
The Physician Associate Studies MPAS only accepts applications for deferred entry in exceptional circumstances.
Applications must be submitted by the January of the year in which you are applying to enrol.
City St George’s University of London is the UK’s only university dedicated to medical and health sciences education, training and research.
We share our site with a major London teaching hospital which is both on the clinical frontline for a diverse local community and a centre of excellence for specialist research.
You’ll study in a clinical and academic research setting with like-minded individuals, mixing with the many different healthcare professionals you will go on to work alongside throughout your career.
We also have the latest research equipment and resources including state-of-the-art advanced bio-imaging technology and cutting-edge laboratory facilities.
We have a range of specialist health and academic facilities to support your learning, listed below.
This includes microscopes, spectrophotometers, DMA amplifiers, organ baths and specialist glassware.
Furthermore, the students will have on their disposal tissue culture facilities, flow cytometry, use of pathogen containment facilities and well animal research facilities.
First established in 1979, the IRF has developed to encompass Light Microscopy, Electron Microscopy, and sample preparation for both, all housed in a single department providing a range of imaging analysis options and the expertise to compliment them.Users of the IRF have the ability to image histology samples, cells and molecules of all varieties, and model organisms such as zebrafish using any of the light microscope, slide scanning, or electron microscope systems we maintain, supported by experienced staff at all stages of analysis.
Our on-site Pathology Museum houses a collection of over 2,000 pathological specimens, including a number of original specimens donated by Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie in 1843.
You will also have access to online resources, such as the Canvas virtual learning environment.
And our Hunter discovery service to help you find the information you need.
Whether you are an existing healthcare professional, returning to education after a break or joining us after graduating from an undergraduate degree, we want to ensure your experience is positive from the outset.
City St George’s attracts a substantial number – over two-thirds – of ‘mature’ students, aged 21 or over when they start; many have family and caring responsibilities.
Our support for academic skills will help you develop and improve on academic skills you need to succeed.
Sessions and tutorials on literature searches, keyword searches and utilising databases will help you make the most of our library collection and literature reviews.
You can use training materials in academic planning, academic reading and writing to develop key transferable skills.
The main goal of induction is to make sure that you are set up for your studies and start to feel part of the University and our community.
As well as course-specific activities, we run an online ‘Get Started’ module which provides lots of information about social and enrichment activities, student safety, wellbeing and learning support, including study skills, a library induction and guidance about our careers and employability services.
Additional information is provided for international students.
Our International Students Support service is part of the Student Life Centre and provides guidance and information on visas, settlement schemes, enrolment and more.
If you are an international student, please do get in touch with them as soon as you accept your offer to study the course via student.immigration@sgul.ac.uk
In this tab you will find the financial information for this programme of study, including available financial support and scholarships.
Tuition fees
Total fees
In order to be registered with the GMC as a physician associate (previously on the FPA Managed Voluntary Register (MVR) held by FPA under RCP) you will need to pass the PA registration assessment (previously the PA national exam or PANE) after successful completion of the MPAS.
The PA registration exam (PARA) is not part of this programme and the cost of the exam is not included in your course fees.
Find out more at the Physician associate national examination (PANE) | RCP London
Regulation
The General Medical Council have been chosen to become the regulator for PAs.
When statutory regulation for PAs comes into effect, the PA MVR will cease to exist.
Stethoscope - from £90
PA National Exam (From 2025 this will be called the PA registration assessment)
You will need to pass a national exam to practise which is independent of the University award or programme.
This will be called the PA registration assessment and will be used from 2025.
You can find out more about costs on the Faculty of Physicians Associates website .
The maximum cost of travel to placement is based on the cost of an 18+ student weekly travelcard for Zone 1 to 9 (2021) for the 45 weeks of placement across the year.
The cost is based on students using public transport.
Travel costs will vary depending on where students live and if placements sites are located outside of London.
Suggested maximum of £3,037 per year.
Funding your study
Find out more on the fees and funding webpage .
The deadline for scholarship applications is Friday 29 January 2025 .
Successful candidates will be those whom the Scholarship Committee consider will make a positive contribution to the academic environment at City St George's and achieve the highest scores.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/courses/physiotherapy-pre-registration:
Two years, full-time
B161, institution code S49
Many people think they know what physiotherapists do – they treat sports injuries, provide exercises and make rehabilitation possible.
While this is part of their role, they also care for people with conditions across the full spectrum of neurological, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular and respiratory conditions.
Our MSc Physiotherapy is a two-year accelerated course for people who already have a degree in a science or behavioural science.
Join us to build on your undergraduate training while enhancing your research and critical thinking skills to excel in clinical practice at a postgraduate level.
Studying with us, you’ll learn to help people with a range of conditions including chronic heart disease, multiple sclerosis, cystic fibrosis and arthritis.
During your placements, you’ll learn how to build therapeutic relationships with patients and work collaboratively with them to choose interventions based on their needs.
This might be prescribing exercises or walking aids, applying manual therapy, recommending transfer aids to support independence or using a hydro pool for rehabilitation.
At the only UK university based on a hospital site, you’ll study in a clinical setting and work alongside different healthcare students and professionals.
We’ve run this course for twenty years, so we know exactly what it takes to prepare students for this rewarding role.
When you complete the course, you’ll be eligible to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP) .
While the City St George’s programmes are recognised by many different countries, applicants are advised to check with their national authorities if they wish to practise in their chosen country.
Looking for an undergraduate degree in this area?
You might be interested in our Physiotherapy BSc.
On our HCPC and CSP accredited degree, learning is hands-on.
Our teaching takes place in simulated environments, including our Physio Lab.
Here you’ll find hospital beds, stairs and other equipment used in practice.
You’ll also explore how the human body works through practical sessions in our Anatomy Suite.
To prepare you for placement, you’ll use equipment on other students and manikins.
You’ll practise measuring range of movement and applying active cycle of breathing techniques as well as more advanced techniques, such as suctioning, use of non-invasive ventilation and joint mobilisation.
You’ll develop expertise in anatomy, physiology and movement, as well as therapeutic exercise, manual techniques and health promotion.
Carrying out your own research is part of your studies too.
Past students have looked at everything from the reliability of worn technology to the effect of saddle height on cycling injury.
To help you go further in your career, we’ll also encourage you to become a critical thinker, help develop your leadership skills and understand how to drive change in practice.
To be eligible for the Physiotherapy MSc programme, you must meet the requirements outlined under Entry Qualifications, Other Academic Requirements, and Non-academic Requirements below.
Degrees must be completed, awarded and certified by 1 August in the year of entry.
Failure to comply with this may result in the withdrawal of any offer issued by City St George’s.
Experience of the research process and/or completion of an undergraduate dissertation are essential.
Applicants who obtain lower than 2:1 honours undergraduate degree, or have completed their undergraduate degree outside of a five year period including the year of application, will be considered if their application is supported by another: biology, behavioural science, sports science, physiology, health science, or a health-related profession masters/PhD degree.
These applicants are required to obtain a minimum of merit at master level.
In addition to meeting the academic criteria for admission, you should be able to demonstrate a keen interest in and commitment to working with people, be able to identify relevant transferable skills that would make you a good physiotherapist, demonstrate a broad awareness of the scope of physiotherapy, and have obtained some relevant work experience where possible.
All of this should be evident from your UCAS personal statement.
Applicants who do not demonstrate this are unlikely to be invited for interview.
Failure to comply with this may result in the withdrawal of any offer issued by St George’s.
We operate a modular system for this course which means the qualification is obtained by a process of credit accumulation – a model used on courses throughout the UK and Europe.
Watch the Physiotherapy (Pre-registration) webinar from our postgraduate virtual event.
The main focus is on the foundation skills of physiotherapy, using a problem-solving approach.
The modules draw on some of the year two modules of the BSc Physiotherapy and integrate with other professions and existing Master's level modules.
You will study the broader concepts of clinical practice and the preventive and innovative role of physiotherapy to meet changing health and social care needs.
You will share modules with year three BSc and postgraduate professionals in order to further develop critical thinking and leadership skills in an interprofessional environment.
Module details
This module offers students the opportunity to enhance prior knowledge and skills in order to build a foundation for physiotherapy practice with an emphasis on a patient–centred approach.
The module consists of understanding the different dimensions of being a healthcare professional.
It will integrate the application of theoretical knowledge to the clinical setting by building on the basic clinical skills and problem-solving approaches required to be a safe and effective physiotherapist.
This module aims to develop the knowledge and understanding of the underlying theoretical and practical principles of neurological physiotherapy practice in the management of neurological movement dysfunction, including the impact of living with long term conditions.
This module is designed to build on student’s musculoskeletal assessment and treatment / management skills and develop their reasoning and problem-solving skills in relation to specific assessment findings.
The module will prepare the student for the musculoskeletal component of placement and later clinical practice with emphasis on a self-directed learning approach for evidence informed practice.
This module aims to further develop cardio-respiratory knowledge and skills obtained in other modules and enable students to extend their clinical reasoning and practical skills for the effective physiotherapy management of individual patients with variety of cardio-respiratory dysfunctions.
These modules will facilitate the individualised assessment and management of these patients, which may arise across different care pathways and settings e.g., acute care, rehabilitation, long-term management and end-of-life care.
This will prepare student for future work promoting health and collaborating with patients to facilitate self-management within the various specialisms of physiotherapy practice.
This module will explore concepts, theories and evidence that underpin current understandings of human behaviour and particularly in relation to health and wellbeing maintenance and rehabilitation.
It will develop an in-depth understanding of psychological, cultural and sociological influences on human behaviour and well-being.
The module will also explore rehabilitation strategies and interventions to promote physical activity for individuals in a variety of contexts and settings in which physiotherapists work.
The approach taken will be person-centred and will develop the students’ ability to understand the influence of the environment in which patients live, their social relationships and their culture.
The critical nature of the module reflects its standard as a level 7 module.
This module looks at a range of quantitative and qualitative research study designs and approaches and will investigate their advantages and disadvantages.
The focus will be on good research practice and the methodologies and tools used by these.
Appraisal and expository writing skills will be introduced while the research process will be situated within a framework of critical thinking and reflection.
The evaluation of research will be addressed in the journal clubs which will require the student groups to reflect on why they have chosen a particular article and how this might influence their practice.
This module introduces the integration of theory into physiotherapy practice via two 6-week practice placements.
Students will apply key scientific and psychosocial principles to their practice and develop a reflective stance to reasoning in physiotherapy.
This module acknowledges the increasing complexity of health care across all disciplines.
Long held certainties about causality in healthcare and wellbeing are being challenged by constantly changing insights into new areas of research as well as policy changes.
An older population and a higher survival rate across the lifespan form the background to this module.
Populations with substantial and ongoing health needs will be the focus of this module, for example end of life rehabilitation, pain management and self-management strategies.
Instead of looking for linear solutions this module will look for interconnections.
The ethical burden of working in contemporary health and social care will be discussed allowing students to enhance their employability once they enter the health sector after qualifying.
This module continues the integration of theory into physiotherapy practice via three 6-week practice placements.
Students develop their critical thinking and application of evidence-based principles to their practice in preparation for working as a graduate physiotherapist.
The fundamental underpinning of this module is choice.
It provides students with an opportunity to choose an area of professional practice that is of interest to them and to investigate it thoroughly, through engagement with professionals, patients and service users.
The module will facilitate the students in investigating, reflecting upon and presenting their chosen topic.
It is intended that this will optimise students’ confidence and employability in a wholly inclusive way.
This is an inter-professional module in which physiotherapy and occupational therapy students are taught together in lectures, tutorials, workshops and simulation to meet the learning needs of each group of students.
This module provides experience of justifying, designing and implementing a research project.
Students will work through the research process including ethical considerations and writing in the style of an academic journal.
The module provides an opportunity to analyse data, critique the findings and discuss how they may be applied to clinical practice.
This module integrates interprofessional working and contemporary concepts of service improvement in practice.
Students will examine how policy, research and opinion can support innovation and enhance the service users’ experience.
Themes may include understanding of the current health and social care sector in the UK and beyond, regulatory and quality bodies in England, population change and the impact on AHP practice (e.g., practice guidelines).
The module will foster engagement with the concepts of sustainable, transformative health and social care environments.
Most of our teaching staff hold clinical roles or have previously worked as a healthcare professional, so you will learn from academics with real on-the-job experience.
Studying at our Tooting site, we’ll get to know you and help you reach your potential.
How our experts teach depends on the course content but we recognise that our students have different learning styles.
The way we assess your learning will change depending on the module but we use a variety of assessment methods so every student has a chance to show their knowledge and strengths.
Find out more on our programme specifications
The majority of our team are highly experienced chartered physiotherapists and physio educators.
We’ll also introduce you to staff with experience working as midwives, health visitors, speech therapists and occupational therapists.
Surrounded by experts, you’ll hear the most up-to-date thinking in the field and learn from other’s experiences working in healthcare.
When we can, we also invite patients to talk to you directly about their experiences of being unwell.
For example, you might hear from someone living with lung disease.
In your second and third year, you’ll spend 30 weeks on placement in and around London.
This will give you experience working with a range of different people presenting with a variety of problems.
As well as acute hospitals and major trauma centres, such as St George’s Hospital, you might be placed within sports clubs, schools, charitable organisations, community health providers and general hospitals.
With an ageing population and more people living with long-term conditions and multiple health issues, physiotherapists are in demand.
As a result, career prospects are excellent, with opportunities to progress within the NHS, private practice, charities and other organisations.
Studying this subject at postgraduate level, we’ll also encourage you to think about the future of physiotherapy practice.
Physiotherapists work in a variety of settings, including patients’ own homes.
You might care for people who suffer physical impairment as they recover in hospital.
Or perhaps you’ll work within the community, helping patients with mental health needs, learning disabilities or serious medical conditions.
When you complete this two-year accelerated degree, you’ll be eligible to apply for professional registration with the HCPC and become a member of the CSP.
Employers in a range of areas are looking for physiotherapists including:
There are many exciting opportunities for career advancement, further study or research, including further postgraduate study at City St George’s, for example, on our MSc Advance Clinical Practice programme.
Graduates from City St George’s have access to lifelong support from the careers service after graduation.
City St George’s, University of London Tooting campus is co- located with one of the largest teaching hospitals in the UK.
This is also where Channel 4 television series 24 hours in A&E is filmed)..
The physio lab represents a realistic clinical environment featuring hospital beds, simulated stairs, mannequins, treatment plinths, walking aids and a treadmill.
It provides a safe environment in which you can familiarise yourself with different techniques including assessment of lung function, gait and strength.
The lab is staffed by dedicated lab technicians with a huge amount of knowledge and expertise.
Our on-site museum houses a collection of over 2,000 pathological specimens, including display specimens exhibiting diseases from lung cancer to tuberculosis.
BLOOM @ Senate House
As City St George’s is part of the University of London, you have access to BLOOM@Senate House, a unique space in the heart of Bloomsbury.
Senate House Library
Alumna and Physiotherapist, Oluchi Zelic, has recently presented her findings on the experiences of deaf healthcare workers during the Covid 19 pandemic at a conference at the University of Rochester.
22 September 2022
We attract a substantial number of ‘mature’ students, aged 21 or over when they start; many have family and caring responsibilities.
We believe we offer a transformative educational experience underpinned by cooperation and collaboration between staff and students.
You will be allocated a personal tutor at the beginning of the programme – someone with whom you can have regular contact, who you ask questions and discuss problems with, both academic and personal.
Even if they do not have the answer they will point you in the right direction towards the best people to deal with specific problems.
Within your first week at City St George’s, you’ll take part in an induction programme to help with your orientation and introduce you to various study skills, including interprofessional learning and use of the Dissecting Room.
We have service level agreements with most placement sites and lecturers act as clinical placement co-ordinators.
Each year, primarily for second and third-year students, we hold an annual radiography careers fair, hosted online in 2020, to which we invite various NHS trusts to come and showcase their organisations.
You can apply for this course through UCAS (the University and College Admissions Service) by the UCAS January deadline in the year of entry , using code B161.
To apply for this course you must complete an Undergraduate UCAS application .
When you have started the Undergraduate UCAS application, it will be possible to add this course as a choice by selecting ‘add choice’ and then inputing the institution and course title/code.
In this tab you will find the financial information for this programme of study, including details of financial support.
Home (UK) (per academic year)
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis.
Find out more about fees and funding .
A stethoscope is optional but useful for clinical skill sessions in university and in practice settings - £100 approx
Lockers are provided free, but you will need to purchase a padlock - £3
Students will require a lab coat for use in wet labs, these can be purchased from the SU - £30.
Uniforms are provided by the University (2 x tops, 2 x trousers), replacement uniforms cost £25.
Name badges are provided by the University, replacements cost £8.
Student Membership with the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy is optional but highly encouraged - £46 approx.
Travel to placements and accommodation
Students studying Allied Health degrees at university are set to receive an additional £5,000 per year of NHS funding from September 2020.
The additional funding will be provided on top of existing support, including student loans.
The additional funding applies to new and existing students and does not need to be paid back.
The government expects the £5,000 maintenance grants to benefit around 100,000 students every year.
There will also be extra payments worth up to £3,000 per academic year for eligible students.
These include:
The deadline for scholarship applications is Wednesday 31 January 2024 .
Assessment critera
Page last updated 18/07/2025 02:52 PM

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/life-at-st-georges/campus-life/educational-facilities/anatomy-suite:
The Anatomy suite is a large purpose-built space, utilised to teach Anatomy to students from multiple courses including Medicine, Biomedical Science, Physician Associate Studies, and the allied health disciplines.
The Anatomy suite is licensed under The Human Tissue Act (2004), regulated by the Human Tissue Authority.
The Licence Holder is St George’s, University of London, and the day-to-day responsibilities for the licence reside with the 'Designated Individual' (Dr Nicholas Renwick).
Anatomical education is led by experts in the fields of anatomy, medicine, dentistry and pedagogy.
Up to 1,000 students a week pass through the doors of the Anatomy Suite as part of timetabled classes and is open to students for self-study.
Anatomy is taught through multimodal resources, including human material in the form of potted, plastinated and osteological specimens (that have been expertly produced in-house), in addition to state-of-the-art 3D digital models, including Anatomage Tables and Complete Anatomy.
Students also have access to over 200 high quality anatomical models.
A state-of-the-art audio-visual system, with seven high resolution screens and a large projector allows for live demonstrations and tutorials across the whole facility.
The pathology museum houses a collection of over 2,000 pathological preparations.
These preparations are often used during practical anatomy classes to give an appreciation of pathological anatomy.
Find out more here .
During practical classes, anatomy demonstrators facilitate student learning.
Our demonstrator team is composed of experts in anatomical education, including core surgical trainees from the London Deanery of Surgeons, in addition to senior (higher-level) students from the university.
Early-years students benefit greatly from this diverse range of teachers, whilst our student demonstrators gain invaluable teaching experience.
Donating your body for medical education is a priceless gift for which we are truly grateful.
Every donor is unique and can have an everlasting influence on students and teachers alike.
Body donation in London and the South-East England is coordinated by the London Anatomy Office.
If you are interested in body donation, you can find out more on their website.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-professional-services/information-services/library/researchers:
Learn more about how St George's researchers can use CRIS and SORA to make their research publications openly available.
For information and guidance on several funder policies, and on open access publishing options.
As a St George's, University of London researcher, you can get help with managing your data at each stage of your project from the research data management (RDM) Service.
On this page you will find some useful information about conducting research: from finding and managing research to support for open access requirements.
Find out about traditional and alternative publication metrics, journal citation reports, impact factors, research evaluation, and more.
Keeping up to date with new research is a must for healthcare professionals.
Stay on top of developments in your field and stay current with the services listed on this page.
Access St George's research support services and clinical research facilities.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses/botox:
The aim of the injection therapy module is to enable practitioners from relevant health care professions to develop in-depth knowledge and understanding of how the mechanisms of Botulinum Toxin action are related to therapeutic and adverse effects.
This will allow for practitioners to advance their practice as independent injectors developing roles such as ACPs and enable autonomous practice.
Medical practitioners will develop greater skills around injection therapy including localisation techniques, and case study analysis to enable advanced clinical reasoning skills
This credit bearing module is particularly suited to: physiotherapists, consultant stroke physicians, Rehabilitation medicine and neurology trainees, and nurses.
The aim of this Level 7, 15 credit injection therapy module is to enable practitioners from relevant health care professions to develop in-depth knowledge and understanding of how the mechanisms of Botulinum Toxin action are related to therapeutic and adverse effects.
The course has been specifically designed to enable appropriate health professionals to undertake injection therapy using botulinum toxin for the management of patients/clients with limb spasticity or dystonia regardless of the form of botulinum toxin used in their trust.
The students will develop skills through critical analysis and evaluation which will enhance practice, and enable them to monitor and assess more effectively overall Botulinum Toxin response, with resultant benefit to patient/client care.
They will also explore the professional and legal implications of the developing role of health care professionals in supplying medicines under protocol.
The greater knowledge and skills students will gain will enable them to become competent, safe and effective independent in injection therapy.
On successful completion of the module the students will be able to demonstrate achievement of the following learning outcomes: Generic Learning outcomes of the module
Theory Sessions
Practical Sessions
OSCE Examination (40%) and Portfolio – consisting of clinical cases and essay (60%).
This is a credit bearing standalone module.
After successful completion of the assessment, students will receive a transcript for 15 credits at Level 7.
APPLY NOW
Start date: 25 April 2025
End Date: 1st June 2025 Onsite
Course lead: Michael Dunn, Claire Ward, Aimee Pinto
Course Fee: £1400
Deadline for applications is Monday 24th February.
The next run of the cohort will be in Autumn.
Students are welcome to be placed on the waiting list if further places become available in this cohort or for 2025/26
If you are interested, please email pec@sgul.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses/mental-health-practice:
Mental health is a core healthcare priority and an area which has seen significant changes in service provision and increased demand.
This module prepares health and social care professionals with advanced knowledge of the biopsychosocial contexts of mental health and equips practitioners with skills and capabilities to make informed clinical decisions surrounding the enhanced assessment, evaluation and management of people living with mental health conditions.
It also aims to enhance understanding and attitudes towards mental health and actualise the aspirational ‘parity of esteem’.
On successful completion of the module, students will be able to:
Contemporary issues in mental health
Mental Health Conditions
Patient assessment and interventions
Ethical, legal and professional issues
Communication
Teaching strategy: Lectures (critical reflection of clinical experiences), Self-directed learning (online learning/guided studies, reading), and Practice (simulated practice, problem based learning and case scenarios)
Mode of delivery 2025: Onsite on 5, 12 and 26 February, 26 March 2025; online on 5 March and 23 April 2025 (assessment).
2026 dates tbc
Assessment: formative submission and summative presentation (case presentatioon)
Eligibility: Level 6:
Level 7:
After successful completion of the assessment, students will receive a transcript for 15 credits at Level 6 or 7.
"Good constructive feedback on my formative submission and useful resources and teaching.
I like the pace of the course, and the guest speakers the most.
The simulation exercises are so realistic.
I've really enjoyed this module and found the topics useful and interesting and feel more confident in my practice."
- Delegate 2023-24
"I enjoyed the module.
Very thought provoking.
New approach and development of thinking and skills regarding mental health."
- Delegate 2023-24
"It covered a lot of information especially the pharmacological side of mental health and effects of drugs.
Being in a small class of people is great."
Start date: February 2026
End date: April 2026
Onsite and Online
Course lead: Dr Katie Pavoni
Fee: £1400
Apply for Level 6 Apply for Level 7

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses/finding-a-leg:
Now in its fifth year this popular module, “Finding a Leg to Stand On: Clinical, Critical and Creative Approaches to the Human Body”, explores what it means to be and to have a body through multiple lenses and practices.
Exceptionally highly rated by students and external examiners alike*, it is an exciting opportunity for transdisciplinary learning for external students joining the module.
These complex questions play a fundamental role in the practice of healthcare and will form the basis of rigorous interdisciplinary discussion with peers from a wide range of disciplines.
Clinical staff, including nurses, allied health professionals and medical staff, health humanities academics and artists interested in the intersects between healthcare and creative practice.
Entry requirements for the Level 6 and Level 7 module will differ.
This module is taught by world class experts, clinicians and artists from St George’s Medical School and beyond.
Using an applied medical humanities’ approach, in which the different Humanities disciplines (philosophy, cultural studies, literary studies, sociology, history of art), Fine Art and Medicine are used as lenses through which to analyse illness, human experience and clinical practice, the module focuses on the leg as a vehicle through which to critique the body, health and illness.
As a tangible example of a component of the body, the leg allows us to explore the ways in which bodies are constructed culturally, clinically, politically and experientially.
The module examines the relations between culture, society, the body and illness through exploring ideas such as surface and depth, normality and abnormality, presence and loss, visibility and invisibility, beauty and ugliness, illness and health.
Learning activities include:  critical analysis of short selected texts, practical exercises such as collaborative drawing, creative writing, imagined case histories and discussion of ethical issues, visual analysis, museum visits, reflective writing and small group discussion.
The course will run on Monday evenings of Spring Term 2024/25 from 6.00 pm to 8.30 pm (blended teaching on site and online), starting on 13 January 2025 for 11 weeks.
Teaching ends at the end of March and essays will be due in at the end of April 2025.
1000 words of reflective writing (0%), a 1500-word resubmission of reflective writing (40%), and a 3000-word essay (60%).
You will be provided with a Level 6 or Level 7, 30 credit university transcript upon successful completion of the course.
"I wish the course never had to end, but I am so excited to take everything I've learned and continue to explore the medical humanities!"
- Participating student, 2019
"I feel privileged to have had this learning opportunity."
- Participating student, 2023
"Thank you so much for an incredible chance you have given us!
I will miss our Monday session and we could not be luckier to be facilitated by three amazing experts.
Thank you Jo, Annie and Deborah!"
- Participating student
"Excellent course material and exposed to stimulating speakers and discussions."
- Participating student
"This is an exemplary, flagship course that is the epitome of excellence in higher education."
- External examiners report, 2020
Start date: January 2026
Hybrid (onsite/virtual)
Course Lead: Dr Deborah Padfield
Course Fee: £550
*For alumni/SGUL staff

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses/healthtech-innovations:
This credit bearing module will address a range of HealthTech innovations that are transforming the access, provision and delivery to healthcare solutions.
This allows healthcare professionals and entrepreneurs to better understand healthcare technologies and to rethink the delivery and design of healthcare services.
Students will develop their understanding of HealthTech and how to apply technology to drive change in healthcare systems and services.
This module equips learners with a core understanding, application, and critique of innovative technologies that are shaping, or have the potential to reshape global healthcare systems.
Learners will draw on expertise from City St George’s, industry experts, peers, and case studies to explore and critique ways to use underlying financial technologies to expand healthcare provision and access.
The aim is that the course will nurture and create the next-gen of tech-savvy health professionals that are fully conversant and adaptable with the increasing role and impact of technology in this sector.
This course is aimed at healthcare practitioners interested in transforming healthcare services, and business or entrepreneurs looking to advance healthcare systems by providing innovative solutions or products.
No specific prior experience in clinical practice is required, but applicants will generally have some background or interest in a relevant health field to apply the learning to their own professional context.
Applications from diverse roles within global healthcare systems and other industries would be welcomed as enriching the learning on the course, encouraging innovation where learners are expected to apply learning to their own contexts.
As this is a Postgraduate Level 7 course, candidates must have an undergraduate degree or equivalent relevant experience.
Candidates must meet our requirements for English language proficiency .
Today’s digital technologies have seen an unprecedented growth, allowing for smaller devices (wearable devices), increasing access to healthcare data and services (via apps and telemedicine), introducing remote monitoring (cloud-based), and increased access to personalised medicine (using machine learning/AI to make more predictive assessments for enhanced preventative care).
Technology is driving a range of innovation and transformation across industries with implications for global healthcare provision and access.
All this comes at a time when there is a recognised need for the healthcare workforce to transform its practice using technology.
The Topol Review (2019) explored how technological developments will transform the roles and functions of clinical staff in the next two decades and outlines the imperative that the healthcare workforce is provided with training to develop new skills that reflect these changing roles.
The course will align with the NHS Long Term Workforce plan which calls for the use of digital and technological innovation to meet the changing healthcare needs of the population and to improve efficiency, with specific relevance to the use of AI and improved data flows for clinical data such as the Diagnostics Digital Capability programme.
Although this alignment is relevant in the UK, such developments are not nationally specific and are of great relevance to other international healthcare systems.
The module will cover a range of innovations within the medical and/or healthcare sectors that are shaping provisions and access to global healthcare including areas of digital financial solutions, healthcare delivery, and key digital enablers.
There will be cases exploring challenges in digital transformation across healthcare organisations in the areas of primary and secondary care, health companies, start-ups, insurance, etc.
The module will address a range of innovation within fintech that is shaping provision and access to global healthcare:
Healthcare delivery channels: Online telehealth services & E-Prescription.
Key digital enablers (Digital platforms): Information, Analytics, Blockchain, E-Wallet, Digital ID.
Increasing role of AI to improve precision diagnostics, forecasting and personalised healthcare solutions.
Emerging models: digital health start-ups, healthcare companies, development organisations
Challenges in digital transformation across healthcare organisations: primary and secondary care providers, drug companies, and insurance companies
Digital financial solutions: Digital savings - Crowdfunding (charity donations, mutual aids), Insurtech (micro insurance, specific-case insurance, defined group, outcome-based), Digital lending (point of care lending, P2P lending, microfinance)
These innovations and technologies have multiple roles within healthcare and can shape the approach of both frontline professionals and the underlying managerial and data-driven processes that underpin the healthcare systems.
The course will focus on what technological innovation can bring to the delivery of healthcare services.
Rather than relating to specific clinical specialties, the course will look at the impact on patient care whether through data analytics that can provide new insights, personalised care, or empower improved patient awareness and agency.
It will also examine how the introduction of innovations can deliver improved efficiency within systems and processes, with a resulting benefit for patients and professionals.
Learners completing the module will be able to:
Reflect upon the importance of HealthTech and its potential to revolutionise how we approach healthcare, improving patient outcomes, streamlining processes and access to timely and quality care.
Critically evaluate emerging trends in the healthcare landscape as well as consider the challenges and opportunities this poses in the transformation of healthcare delivery across an international context.
Reflect upon the role of HealthTech for informing priorities and improving decision-making in the provision of healthcare both from the service provider and users' perspective.
Propose innovative solutions for addressing existing health issues, through the introduction of emergent technologies, such that the proposal is suitable for an audience at Board level.
Start date: November 2024
End date: February 2025
Course Lead: Dr Jag Kundi
Course Fee: £1,400
If you are interested in this course, please email pec@sgul.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses/imagining-the-other:
In this module, Imagining the Other: Death, Bereavement and Loss, medical humanities will be taught to a cohort of science and healthcare students from St George’s." For external students joining the module, it is an exciting opportunity for transdisciplinary learning.
Clinical staff, including nurses, allied health professionals and medical staff.
The module is offered at both Level 6 and Level 7, entry admission requirements will be vary depending on the level applied for.
This has seldom been more true than in 2020 when the Covid 19 pandemic has asked so much of health and social care workers worldwide and left many people personally bereaved.
While the events of 2020 have brought loss, bereavement and death closer to home, it has also seen a surge in book buying and reading.
There is and always has been a rich literature addressing the perennially important issues of death, loss and bereavement across time and across cultures.
How does it feel to face your own death, and what drives people to chronicle this experience in writing?
What can reading such works tell us about the human urge to communicate, and to leave a record of oneself behind?
For those facing the loss of a loved one, how can life go on after death, and can anything positive emerge from this?
Can there be humour in death, and how and why does loss sometimes lead to renewed creativity?
The following content will be covered:
If you take the course you will:
The module will start on 4 November and run for six weeks.
Teaching will take place online on a Monday evening from 6.30pm to 8.30pm.
See the full module outline HERE .
1000 words of reflective writing (0%) and a 3000-word essay (100%).
You will be provided a university transcript upon successful completion of the Level 6 or Level 7, 15 credit module.
“I really enjoyed this course and I felt it went beyond what I was expecting.”
“I felt that I gained a great deal from this course and that it was a great experience that I would wholly recommend to others.”
Start date: November 2025
Course Lead: Prof Annie Bartlett
Course Fee: £420
Apply for Level 6
Apply for Level 7

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses/interprofessional-diabetes-course-for-healthcare-professionals:
Nationally, there is a drive on redesigning diabetes services towards a singular pathway across the primary/secondary care interface.
NHS England has identified professional education as an essential factor in the modernisation of diabetes services and has provided funding to support the training of health professionals in diabetes care.
The prime aim of this programme is to provide practitioners from different specialities with the knowledge and competencies to manage, maintain, treat and/or transfer patients with diabetes to the appropriate tier of care.
The outcomes will include improved personal confidence, more effective referral in the tiered structure of diabetes care, appropriate collaboration and engagement with the specialist team(s) and intelligent use of new therapies.
The course is broken into 6 key topics:
Diagnosis and Classification
Prevention and Risk Evaluation
Management of Dysglycaemia
Complications
Complex Active Diabetes and Multi- Morbidity
Social and Psychological Aspects of Diabetes Care.
The mode of study is blended e-learning with an objective patient evaluation review assessment (OPERA).
The course consists of 6 weeks of e-learning, with one week introduction, which will be completed in a two-month period to allow participants to learn at a variable pace.
Online discussion among peers supported by tutors will be encouraged related to case studies or specific points of interest highlighted in the course materials.
The patient journey will be developed over the course from diagnosis through the development of complications.
Where relevant students will be encouraged to use or reference their own cases and professional experiences.
Students will be expected to have reviewed all the online material and will be required to pass the 2 summative quizzes before being entered into the OPERA which is the final assessment.
Students will access the course material online via Canvas (our Virtual Learning Environment).
The course has been developed to enable students to work through the content as flexibly as possible.
Quizzes and group presentations are scheduled throughout the six-week programme.
Students will need to be available virtually on specific days for the case presentations.
Schedule:
There will be an online introduction to the course via MS Teams scheduled on the 19 May 2025, Monday before the course is due to start.
Six weeks online learning plus an introduction session starts on 20 May 2025, with one day online OPERA assessment on 7 August 2025.
Expert’s  Tutorial will be held via MS Teams at 5pm for approximately 75mins.
These sessions will be held on 4th, 19th June and 4th July
Presentations via MS Teams will be held on week 2, 4 and 6 for approximately 1.5 hours (Time: TBC).
Any individual meetings with Tutors (via MS Teams) will need to be arranged directly between the student and Tutor.
“The course was very comprehensive and covered what every healthcare professional who will work in the of diabetes needs to know.
It taught me so much about the pathophysiology of diabetes as well as the complications.
This course would be a huge help to healthcare professionals looking to specialise in diabetes care and management.”
“The layout and content were excellent.
Understanding the basic pathophysiology to managing the patient is what I needed.
The quality was good - tutorials, contents, and assignments.”
Apply now
Start Date: 19 May 2025 End Date: 7 August 2025
Course Lead: Dr Ruth Austin
Fee: £1180

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/short-courses/introduction-to-the-principles-of-pre-hospital-care:
This course aims to develop your ability to apply your clinical reasoning experience in a challenging and resource limited environment.
No previous experience of working in the prehospital care setting is required.
A team of experienced doctors and paramedics will deliver a mixture of teaching and simulation to achieve the learning outcomes of the course.
You will be encouraged to undertake an elective observation day in a prehospital care system and share your experience as part of the module.
Please note that the simulation element of this course may require you to physically manipulate equipment in unfamiliar surroundings.
The elective element may require you to attend events or emergencies in the prehospital setting.
A learning portfolio will be required to be completed and submitted in order for each student to successfully pass the course.
Hospital doctors aspiring to apply for a role in a prehospital care system.
The course will combine a range of educational methodologies to deliver the curriculum:
Face to face days to deliver prehospital skills and knowledge via lectures, workshops,  case based discussion, practical skills and simulation.
This will be facilitated by a multi-disciplinary team of paramedics and doctors, all with extensive prehospital and teaching experience
Please note places are limited and in order to apply delegates will need to submit a 500 word statement of interest together with CV and relevant qualification.
Onsite teaching sessions will be held on 27 February, 6 March, 13 March, 20 March, 27 March, 3 April, 10 April 2025 at Tooting Broadway Campus.
OSPE Exam will be held on 10 July 2025.
After successful completion of the assessment, students will receive a transcript for 30 credits at Level 7.
Start Date: February 2026
End Date: April 2026
Exam: July 2026
Course leads: Harriet Tucker, Anthony Hudson
Introduction Fee for 24/25 academic year: £2,360

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/about/our-institutes/institute-of-medical-and-biomedical-education/centre-for-allied-health/multiprofessional-education/multiprofessional-education-standalone-modules/joint-soft-tissue-injection-therapy:
The module is aimed at healthcare professionals who are involved in the management of musculoskeletal conditions and aim to use joint and soft-tissue injections as part of their clinical practice.
The module delivers the skills and knowledge required for practitioners to competently undertake joint and soft tissue injections as part of their clinical practice, and critically appraise the role of injection therapy in the management of complex musculoskeletal scenarios.
This will allow practitioners to advance their practice as independent injectors and develop their roles within clinical and private practice.
This credit bearing module is suited to physiotherapists, doctors, GPs, nurses, podiatrists, hand therapists, paramedics and orthopaedic, rheumatology, SEM trainees.
The aim of this Level 7, 15 credit injection therapy module is to enable practitioners from relevant healthcare professions to develop the skills and knowledge to:
On successful completion of the module the student will be able to:
The module will be held on Tuesdays, 11, 18, 25 March and 1, 8, 15 April 2025 .
Teaching will take place onsite from 9am to 5pm .
OSCE Examination (100%) and Portfolio – consisting of 10 supervised injections and short essay (pass/fail).
Date: 11 March to 15 April 2025
Location: Onsite at City St George's, University of London (Tooting campus)
Course Lead: Dr Matthew Grant

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/st-georges-academic-training/what-is-a-clinical-academic:
A clinical academic is a clinically qualified medical researcher.
They contribute to the development of new treatment paradigms and are also involved in teaching and mentoring clinicians who are interested in developing an academic career track.
Health Education England , NIHR and UK medical schools have worked in partnership to develop pathways to help trainees foster their academic career.
The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Integrated Academic Training programme, announced in the autumn of 2005, provides a route for the training of prospective clinical academics that is compatible with higher specialist training requirements.
The scheme has been very successful and has now been running for 13 years.
The scheme aims to give individuals an avenue for conducting research, often towards a higher degree such as an MD or PhD, to fit in within their clinical training.
This process leads up to the Certificate of Completion of Training (CCT).
The scheme falls into three phases over 10 years:
foundation programme
academic clinical fellowship – three years (GPs have four years)
clinical lectureship – up to four years.
For more information about the scheme, visit the NIHR Academy website
Find out more about the variety of routes to a clinical academic career on offer at St George's.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/st-georges-academic-training/nihr-acf-cl-posts-at-city-st-georges:
NIHR ACF and CL posts at City St George’s
PLEASE CHECK BACK DURING 2025 FOR CLINICAL ACADEMIC OPPORTUNITIES
Post Type
Number of posts available
Specialty and academic leads
Link to advert in Oriel

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/st-georges-academic-training/why-choose-st-georges:
At St George's, University of London you can do research and clinical work on our large campus and major university teaching hospital – all on one site.
Other benefits of choosing our institution for your academic training are:
you'll have access to expert training and the chance to develop generic transferable skills
you can study for higher qualifications including the Postgraduate Certificate in Healthcare and Biomedical Education , Postgraduate Certificate in Genomics , Postgraduate Certificate in Healthcare Research Skills and Methods , MSc in Sports Cardiology , and various MDRes and PhD programmes
you'll be able to interact with other highly skilled leading-edge scientists and world-leading research covering areas such as infection and immunity , cardiac sciences and population health .

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/st-georges-academic-training/academic-pathways-we-offer:
There are many routes to a clinical academic career.
You might follow a structured pathway, taking advantage of the academic training appointments offered by the Foundation Programme and the National Institute for Health Research.
Or you might carve your own path, taking up a fellowship, perhaps supported by a research council or charity, to complete a higher degree.
No route needs to be followed rigidly and it is common — indeed desirable ― to take advantage of all opportunities available to you.
The Specialised foundation programme (previously known as the Academic Foundation Programme) provides opportunities for newly qualified doctors to develop skills in research, teaching and management, alongside achieving the clinical competencies required for the completion of foundation training.
The posts typically involve four months of dedicated academic time in the second (F2) year of the programme.
How this is allocated will vary by post.
It may, for example, take the form of a four-month block or day release over the course of the year.
The academic component is usually coordinated by a partner university, such as St George’s, and it might involve, for example, designing or conducting a small research project, developing teaching materials, or performing a quality improvement project.
Undertaking an academic foundation post is not a prerequisite for an academic career, but it provides an ideal platform from which to gain relevant experience and achievements that may be a springboard to future academic posts.
Academic clinical fellow (ACF) posts are usually aligned with internal medicine training or early specialist training (CT/ST1 to CT/ST3).
They are aimed at medical trainees who do not yet hold a higher degree.
Nine months of the three-year programme (ie 25%) are protected for academic work.
The precise timing and arrangement of this will be specific to the post, depending on clinical and academic needs, but it will usually be taken in several blocks, for example, 3 months per year.
ACF post holders are employed by an NHS trust and hold an honorary contract with St George's, University of London.
The principal objective for an ACF post holder is to cultivate ideas, contacts and preliminary data to support a funding application to undertake a full-time higher research degree (such as an MD or PhD).
To undertake a higher research degree (an MD or PhD), it is generally necessary to take up an academic clinical fellowship (ACF) post specifically for this purpose.
Such posts are most often funded by the Medical Research Council, NIHR or a large charitable body such as the Wellcome Trust or British Heart Foundation.
Suitably qualified medical trainees may apply for these fellowships whether they have undertaken an ACF post or not, but ACF posts often provide the most direct means of acquiring and demonstrating the necessary experience and attributes.
Clinical lecturer (CL) posts are intended for medical trainees who have completed a higher research degree (MD or PhD).
They are usually aligned with the mid to latter phase of specialist training (ST3 and above).
The post lasts until the date of the trainee’s Certificate of Completion of Training (CCT), up to a maximum of four years.
Half of the time is allocated to academic work, and the other half to continued clinical training.
CL post holders are employed by St George's, University of London, and hold an honorary contract with the NHS trust in which they are continuing their clinical training.
The aim of a CL post is primarily to prepare trainees for applications to advanced fellowship or senior clinical lectureship appointments.

New sentences found on https://sgul.ac.uk/study/professional-education/st-georges-academic-training/being-a-clinical-academic:
Charles Taylor, Specialised Foundation Programme doctor talks about his experience of the programme at City St George’s.
Kate Stenson, NIHR Clinical Lecturer in Vascular Surgery, talks about how she became a clinical academic surgeon and how her career has developed at St George's.
Dr Felicity Knights, In-Practice Fellow (IPF) in General Practice talks about her decision to apply for an ACF at City St George’s and how the award at the School of Health and Medical Sciences has provided opportunities for research and leadership roles along with teaching opportunities and educational projects, as well as the successful award of her current IPF
NIHR Clinical Lecturer at St George's, University of London Cardiology Specialty Registrar and Fellow in Cardiac Electrophysiology and Implantable Cardiac Devices at St George's Hospital, London, talks about her NIHR Clinical Lecturer in Cardiology award.
NIHR Clinical Lecturer in Cardiovascular Pathology at St George's, University of London, Histopathology Specialty Registrar and Autopsy Practitioner.
Read about Dr Westaby’s clinical academic pathway at St George’s
Dr Dagan Lonsdale, Senior Lecturer in Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics and Consultant Intensivist talks about his clinical academic pathway at St George’s.
Dr Angela Loyse describes her clinical studies, and talks about her role as Chief Investigator on the DREAMM project.