# Site: https://www.sheffield.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 497
# --------

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk:
You're coming to study at a world top-100 university.
Here's everything you need to know about how to register to be ready for the new academic year.
15th in the UK and 92nd in the world in the QS World University Rankings 2026
Our institutional rankings
Plus Best Students' Union and Best Student Life - 2024 Whatuni Student Choice Awards (WUSCAs)
Why we're University of the Year
2025 National Student Survey (NSS), based on aggregate responses
Why choose the University of Sheffield
Make Sheffield the start of something special.
When you study here you get one of the best student experiences in the UK.
A masters from Sheffield means in-depth knowledge, advanced skills, and the confidence to achieve your ambitions.
At Sheffield, you’ll join a supportive community of scholars who share your passion.
Our reputation for excellence attracts some of the best minds in the world.
Our weekly online sessions help you find out about different aspects of University life.
We are proud to be recognised as one of the top 100 universities in the world.
New research suggests that modern computer or mobile assisted language learning apps aren't just alternatives to traditional methods, but powerful complementary tools.
Our centres of excellence are taking an interdisciplinary approach to the biggest challenges facing the planet.
Our researchers are making life-changing discoveries and solving problems that have a global impact.
The University of Sheffield Player is the place to discover and explore videos, podcasts and digital exhibitions about our research.
Anytime, anywhere.
Scientists from the University of Sheffield will play a central role in the new UK-wide medical imaging platform, strengthening the institution’s world-class medical research that will bring benefits to patients across Yorkshire and the country.
A landmark national summit will bring leaders from industry, policy and academia to South Yorkshire to accelerate the nation’s ambition of becoming a global clean energy superpower.
Off the Shelf Festival of Words, one of the longest running literary festivals in the UK, will return to Sheffield for its 34th edition from 10 October - 10 November, bringing together the best of local, national and international literary talent.
Scientists have discovered how some children develop natural immunity to a bacterial infection, a vital breakthrough which could help develop vaccines to save up to half a million lives globally each year.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/courses:
We offer a range of high-quality courses from undergraduate degrees and postgraduate courses to research degrees and adult education classes.
Study options include full-time, part-time, online and distance learning.
Undergraduate 2026-27 A-Z | Undergraduate 2025-26 A-Z
Other ways you can study: PhD study Pathway programmes for international students Online learning Courses for mature students Intercalated degrees for medical students Apprenticeships
Ranking, facilities and student life
Accommodation
Visit us
Apply
For European Union students
Pathway programmes for international students
For parents
For teachers and advisers

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/home:
Search for an undergraduate course or view the 2026-27 courses A-Z :
Learn with the best at a Russell Group university.
Start your journey at our next open day.
The big city vibe that feels like home.
Sheffield has lots to discover.
Welcome to your university city.
Sleep easy.
We offer guaranteed university-owned and managed accommodation for first year students.
Interested in studying at the University of Sheffield?
We'd love to keep you informed about our events for prospective students and information about what studying here is like.
Undergraduate study: register your interest
Join our student vloggers as they show you around our city, campus, accommodation and more
Take the video tour
For LGBT+ students
For Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) students
For Muslim students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught:
We'll nurture your passion for your subject and show you how to use what you learn.
All the information and guidance you need for making a postgraduate taught application at the University of Sheffield.
Book on an online open day or attend a range of events throughout the year to find out what makes studying at Sheffield special.
Find out about fees for masters courses at the University of Sheffield or use our course fee lookup tool .
Tuition fees
Funding is available, depending on your fee status, where you live and the course you study.
Use our Student Funding Calculator to estimate how much money you could get towards your study.
Funding options
Sign up for our mailing list to hear about Postgraduate events and what it’s like to study with us
Register your interest
Are you a Sheffield graduate?
You could save up to £2,500 on your postgraduate taught course fees, subject to eligibility .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd:
World-leading projects take place here every day.
Explore current topics, and find PhD projects and supervisors.
Search for PhD opportunities at Sheffield and be part of our world-leading research.
All the information and guidance you need for making a PhD application at the University of Sheffield.
You can attend a range of events throughout the year to find out what makes studying at Sheffield special.
We're committed to supporting you throughout your entire research journey, to inspire and nurture you to do the research you want to do.
Find out how much your research degree will cost and our approach to the tuition fee-paying period.
Government loans are available for eligible home fee-paying postgraduate research students to help fund your studies.
Doctoral loans
Information about scholarships and funding your PhD.
PhD scholarships
Sign up for our mailing list to hear about events and what it’s like to study at the University of Sheffield.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Apprenticeships provide the skills, qualifications and work experience in different areas.
We offer a range of apprenticeships with industry and businesses across the region, and employ apprentices across a number of departments.
Develop leadership skills and apply the latest research and policy to your practice with our healthcare apprenticeships.
We work in partnership with businesses to make sure you develop the skills and experience you need.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/mature/home:
We welcome applications from mature students.
A mature applicant is defined as someone who will be over the age of 21 on entry.
Lifelong Learning offers full and part-time degrees with a foundation year for mature students without traditional entry qualifications
Mature students who fulfil the entry requirements for their chosen course can apply for direct entry to that course.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/online-learning/home:
Experience our world-class teaching and research, and join an international community of tutors and students.
Advance your career online, with access to internationally-renowned academics and innovative learning materials.
Take your career forward
Free world-class educational materials including lectures, events and research.
Explore the learning

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc:
The ELTC offers a variety of academic, professional, and general English language courses and services.
We offer courses for students preparing to study or already studying at the University.
We also offer teacher training courses, professional development services and English language testing.
Email: eltc@sheffield.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 114 222 1780
English Language Teaching Centre The University of Sheffield 78 Hoyle Street Sheffield S3 7LG United Kingdom
How to find us
Follow us on social media
Our Memberships and Accreditations

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/home:
A world-class university – a unique student experience.
Sheffield is a research university with a global reputation for excellence.
We're a member of the Russell Group: one of the 24 leading UK universities for research and teaching.
There are lots of things to consider when choosing a university.
Find out what's important to our students and why they chose Sheffield.
Sheffield is a leading research university with a global reputation for excellence.
Take advantage of everything it has to offer and you won’t just graduate with honours – you’ll graduate with insight, skills and experience that set you apart.
The best students' union in the UK.
Hundreds of student societies.
A special city with a strong sense of community, right on the edge of the Peak District national park.
And a network of support services to make sure you’re happy, healthy and secure.
For international students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/teaching:
Our teachers will give you the extra push you need to realise your full potential.
Our academics are genuine experts.
You’ll be taught by leading researchers, writers, thinkers and technical innovators.
Their work examines human activity – driving positive change, empowering people and making communities stronger.
They want to pass on their knowledge, their enthusiasm and their professional standards, to you.
Our teachers and support staff work hard, bringing your subject to vivid life in lectures, seminars and practicals.
Our job is to prepare you for life after university.
That’s why there are also usually opportunities to get out of the classroom and explore the world beyond your subject and apply what you learn.
At Sheffield you’ll have the chance to work with students from different subjects, as well as external organisations and local communities where you could really make a difference.
The brightest and best students choose Sheffield because they want to be challenged.
They don't expect to be given all the answers.
The Sheffield experience is about learning how to find the answers yourself.
We want you to leave Sheffield with the knowledge, skills, values and attributes needed to work and live in a way that will bring about solutions to the urgent environmental challenges we face.
We’re working with students and academics to make Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) part of every course within the next few years.
So whatever your subject, whatever your chosen career, you’ll be equipped to work in ways that address the environmental challenges we face.
On Tuesday 12 November 2019, 89 students from our Department of Landscape Architecture left Sheffield for Spurn Point, a tidal island on the northeast coast that’s a flashpoint for climate emergency events including rising sea levels and storm surge.
Working with award-winning architects LDA, our students faced a race against time to produce a design in response to a sustainability-themed brief.
Whatever you do, you’ll do it under the supervision of world class researchers who are also passionate and skilled teachers.
They teach this way because it makes you a more active citizen.
And because it’s the best preparation for a truly rewarding career.
The most employable graduates understand their subject from every perspective.
The most effective professionals know how to work with people from other fields.
Our approach to teaching reflects the real world.
We’ll show you how to manage your own work.
There are opportunities to work in teams, often alongside people from other disciplines.
And we’ll help you develop the leadership qualities you need to take on big challenges.
You’ll learn about new and emerging fields of study, technology and practices.
Most importantly – and this is what really gives our graduates an edge – you’ll come to understand the complex ethical debates surrounding developments in your specialist field.
Your career prospects
We work closely with business, industry, the arts, government and NGOs to make sure you develop the skills you need.
Our schools and departments have strong links with external organisations that benefit from their research.
All kinds of professionals contribute to the teaching – actors, architects, entrepreneurs, solicitors and surgeons.
Some of them are guest lecturers, others are co-supervisors and mentors.
As a research-led institution we are well placed to deliver an excellent student experience.
Programmes and modules of study are delivered by academic staff who both teach and undertake world-leading research and/or scholarship in their disciplines, supporting our students on their journey to discover and understand.
Almost all of our staff hold a doctorate degree.
During your course you can expect a range of different staff to deliver teaching in a variety of different ways, and these staff may include Professors, Readers, Senior University Teachers, Senior Lecturers, University Teachers, Lecturers, Teaching Associates, and Tutors/ Graduate Teaching Assistants (sometimes called demonstrators).
The Sheffield Academic statement describes the qualities that distinguish a Sheffield Academic, recognising the collective responsibility of teaching staff, for ensuring that our culture fosters the distinctive development of the Sheffield Graduate.
The pursuit of teaching excellence in relation to a broad field of study, supporting students to engage as partners with the University and seeking to develop their knowledge, attributes and skills at all stages of their development in ways that are consistently effective and inspiring.
The Sheffield Academic statement
Over a third of our staff hold professional qualifications in teaching and/ or have professional recognition from the Higher Education Academy.
We also have a high number of staff who hold professional qualifications such as doctors, dentists, engineers, architects, nurses, etc.
This is essential for our programmes of study to gain professional body accreditation and also equips our staff to be excellent teachers in their discipline.
The University employs Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) who deliver predetermined activities to support teaching staff by undertaking the lab supervisions, delivery of seminars, tutorials and other small group work, under the supervision and in liaison with senior colleagues.
A comprehensive training programme is provided for all GTAs.
We pride ourselves in providing a high quality learning experience for all of our students.
To ensure our approaches to teaching stay up-to-date our staff regularly participate in Continuing Professional Development, and we recognise particularly innovative approaches through our Senate Awards Scheme for teaching excellence, supporting winners to share their good practice throughout the University.
Further details of staff who teach are included on school and department websites .
I believe it's important to enhance the learning experience with technology – there are lots of options at Sheffield for doing that.
My lectures are recorded so that students can listen to them afterwards.
They find that really helpful.
I also use online communities to set up discussion groups – there’s a great interaction between staff and students.
Dr Louise Robson
Biomedical Science
Get to know some of our academics as they discuss the courses they teach and what inspires them.
Get further inspiration from our YouTube playlist
Spend part of your degree studying, working or teaching in another country.
Global opportunities for students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/facilities:
We invest to create the right environment for you.
That means outstanding facilities, study spaces and support – and the freedom to do things your own way.
The University Library’s collections and content are rich in new media, digital works, texts and research materials.
You can access your library account and all our digital collections from anywhere on or off campus.
Our online service has almost a million ebooks and over 60,000 journal titles along with a virtual library team and specialist librarians ready to support you.
The Diamond boasts innovative study facilities.
It offers an on-demand print collection, high-demand textbooks and access to our digital collections.
It also features sector-leading creative media facilities including private editing booths and a full TV studio.
Explore the Diamond
The Information Commons has 1,300 learning spaces, extensive technology support, a high-demand collection of 120,000 volumes and support for the development of your research and critical thinking skills.
Western Bank Library offers learning spaces designed to inspire your best work and houses extensive research collections.
The Grade II listed building is also home to our Special Collections and National Fairground and Circus Archive.
The Health Sciences Library is at the heart of the medical school.
Order a book online and when you're finished with it, you can drop it oﬀ at any of the five sites and we'll get it back to where it belongs.
We'll automatically renew any unreturned books, provided no one else has requested them.
If you're looking to study in the evening, access to safe learning spaces will be important to you.
Our information skills advisers and liaison librarians offer online tutorials, videos and guides, and online and face to face workshops designed to make you a more effective student or researcher by supporting the development of the research, critical thinking and digital skills you need for a rewarding career.
Our library is one of the UK’s leading research libraries.
It’s home to around 25,000 rare books and over 150 special collections which include archives, manuscripts, photographs, books, pamphlets and scores.
We have a specialist librarian for every main subject area.
So when you need advice and guidance you can talk to someone who understands your subject and your course.
Our study spaces, computers and IT support are all there to offer you the best possible learning experience.
You can get fast, free, secure Wi-Fi all over campus and in University accommodation.
You will be able to connect your own devices or we can lend you a laptop if you need it.
If you have trouble with your personal computer, we’re on hand to investigate the problem for free and help you out with any other IT queries.
We even provide a University software download service that lets you install a range of academic, productivity and security software on to your own computer.
IT services and support
The University of Sheffield Library has maintained its efficiency at a very high standard since I started studying here last September.
While StarPlus allows me to find and request books from any location at any time, the Information Commons is open all day and all night allowing me to borrow and return books whenever.
I also love the convenience of the auto-renew function of borrowed books
Laila Abubakari
MA International Political Communication
We’ve created free apps for you to check your timetable, locate available PCs and interact with other people on your course.
Our flexible printing service lets you print from any computer, tablet or mobile and pick up from any printer on campus.
Our virtual learning environment provides course notes, lecture recordings, assignment uploads and other resources to help you study.
And our software download service gives you free access to specialist research software to ensure you produce your best work.
You can use all your University online services securely and you can access all your work files from any computer with an internet connection.
Our whole service provision is designed to let you work and study effectively from any computer in any location, in whatever work pattern is best for you.
The University Library
The city of Sheffield
Students' Union
Experience all the benefits and services that come from being a Sheffield graduate.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/ranking:
The University of Sheffield is a world top-100 university with a global reputation for its exceptional teaching, impactful research, international outlook and outstanding student experience.
There are plenty of excellent reasons why you should choose the University of Sheffield.
Our outstanding performance in league tables for teaching, student experience and research are just a few of them.
92 per cent of our research is rated in the highest two categories Research Excellence Framework 2021
A top 20 university targeted by employers The Graduate Market in 2024, High Fliers report
Global rankings
Book a visit or online event
We’re socially responsible, environmentally aware, and committed to sustainability in everything we do.
The knowledge we generate helps to make the world a better place.
We believe that true learning means getting out of the classroom and engaging with business, industry, governments and communities.
That ethos drives both our research and our teaching.
Our way of doing things attracts the best minds in the world.
Our staff advise governments and multinational companies.
They write books and create new technologies.
Their work influences policy and changes lives.
We want you to change things too.
That’s why we get you to engage with the latest research and give you opportunities to contribute.
We encourage you to volunteer in the community for the same reason.
We want you to understand how knowledge is generated and how it helps people.
Change, in a sense, is what we do.
This is a university with a strong sense of purpose.
Our history stretches back to 1828, the founding date of the Sheffield School of Medicine.
The joining of this school with other institutions eventually led to the founding of Firth College in 1879 and the University of Sheffield being granted its Royal Charter 31 May 1905.
History of the University
Our teaching expertise
Why research matters
The Russell Group

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/career:
A Sheffield degree is a preparation for life and the world of work.
We’ll support you throughout your course and after you graduate.
Our students come from all kinds of backgrounds.
Our aim is for every single one of them to reach their full potential.
That’s why the support we offer is personal, built around you.
We want you to be able to work anywhere in the world, to make your mark among the brightest and best.
To reach the top in your profession, if that’s your goal.
To redefine it, if necessary.
Or to create something completely new.
Through the curriculum and using online resources, you’ll learn how to manage your own development.
We encourage you to reflect on what you’ve learned so you understand what your strengths are, and how you can do even better.
The Careers Service was so helpful, especially for students studying humanities.
It helps you work out how to be employable and learn how to apply the skills you've learned at university in the real world.
I’d recommend getting involved in everything you can and doing everything you can.
It’s a chance to work out what you’re good at, what you love and what you thrive in.
Helen Monks
Graduate and professional actor - BA English & Theatre
We’ll help you explore all your options, including employment, entrepreneurship and further study.
You will also have the chance to connect with big private sector employers, SMEs and third sector organisations, finding inspiration and building a network of contacts.
Our job fairs are the biggest in the region, covering a wide range of industries and sectors.
Employers regularly visit campus, meeting postgraduates, sharing expertise and recruiting for potential opportunities.
We offer degrees with a year’s work experience built in.
We can also help you find shorter placements, vacation work and part-time jobs .
Recent placements include: AstraZeneca, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, ESPN, Fujitsu, IBM, the NHS, Rolls-Royce and Unilever.
Some are in Sheffield, some in London or elsewhere.
Through our volunteering programme , you can take part in projects that give you invaluable insight into how organisations work and why.
Work placements
During my year in industry at Cummins, I had the opportunity to work on a variety of projects of different sizes.
All of this taught me how to manage my time and prioritise as I was usually in charge of my own personal projects throughout the year.
All in all, I believe it to be a truly life-changing experience which I am sure will open many doors in the future.
Godwin EDI Okojie
Mechanical Engineering with a Year in Industry
PwC have had great success working with the University of Sheffield and recruiting their students into our undergraduate and graduate opportunities.
We recruit University of Sheffield students from all degree subjects and value the range of skills and experiences that they bring to a diverse firm such as PwC.
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC)
You could study or work abroad , do international research, attend a summer school at one of our partner universities or learn a language.
You can even combine all of these.
We offer a range of scholarships for many of our global activities.
We offer additional support for international students who want to find work in the UK, overseas or in your home country.
As an undergraduate student, we’ll help you consider postgraduate study so that you can carry on a subject you love, learn new skills, or change direction.
And if you’re a postgraduate student who is interested in a PhD we can help you find and apply for opportunities.
Sheffield graduates achieve amazing things across the globe, using their degrees to make a positive impact on society and change the world for the better.
Sheffield is a world top-100 research university with a global reputation for excellence.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/contact/prospective-students:
Our dedicated Enquiries Team is here to help you with any questions you may have about studying at the University of Sheffield, so please don’t hesitate to contact us.
There are several ways to contact us - except when the University closes on UK bank holidays .
Fill out our form with your question, and our team will get back to you as soon as possible.
Prospective student enquiry form
If you are an agent, please contact international@sheffield.ac.uk with any questions.
Select the speech bubble icon at the bottom of this page to start a conversation with us.
Between Monday and Friday, 10am and 2pm UK time, our enquiries team can help with more complex queries.
Outside of these hours, our chatbot will respond to you.
If you can't see the speech bubble then you may need to allow cookies via the cookie settings on our site .
Call us on +44 114 222 8030 between Monday and Friday, 10am to 12 noon and 2 to 4pm UK time.
Postgraduate study: register your interest

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/su:
Becoming a Sheffield student is all about trying new things, testing your strengths and discovering what you're passionate about.
Your students' union (SU) is here to make sure nothing stands in your way.
Our SU has been voted best Students' Union in the UK from 2017 to 2024 (seven years in a row) by the Whatuni Student Choice Awards (WUSCAs).
It's also voted number one for Students' Union by the StudentCrowd 2025 University Awards.
As you've probably guessed, the entertainment and the social life are first rate.
But the awards also reflect how effective our students' union is at representing students, giving them support and delivering the services they ask for.
And it’s not just for undergraduates.
Many of our facilities are developed with postgraduate students in mind.
Sheffield Students’ Union
The Students' Union operates under a code of practice approved by University Council.
Take a break from your studies, and choose from a wide range of activities and sports on offer, including over 350 societies and sports clubs.
You can try out new activities through the Give It a Go programme.
Clubs, societies and sport
In the acapella and beatbox society we take some of our favourite songs and recreate them using only our voices.
The main choir meets once a week to rehearse and we have performances throughout the year.
Some of the closest friends I’ve made in university have been through acapella.
We spend a lot of time together so we just end up knowing each other really well.
Ola Sobande
Chemical engineering
Sport can be anything you want it to be.
Training to be a world-class athlete.
Competing for fun.
Or meeting friends and trying out something new.
We've got all the facilities to keep you motivated.
And if you love the outdoors, the Peak District is right on your doorstep.
If you’re looking for great cafes, bars and nights out then our £20 million Students' Union is a great place to start.
Take your pick from a mix of live music, comedy, talks, film screenings and nights out or just take time out in the Students’ Union building: the perfect place to meet, eat or relax.
Three on-campus venues attract DJs and bands from around the world.
We have club nights running almost every night of the week playing pop, rock, dance, hip-hop and retro.
The 400-seater Students' Union cinema screens foreign films, cult classics or box office smashes.
You can watch dance and theatre performances, and stimulate your mind with live, high-profile speakers.
Or just take some time to be entertained at our regular open-mic night, pub quiz or our hugely popular comedy night.
And if you want to go further afield, your options for a night – or day – out in Sheffield are so far-reaching and diverse that there's always fun to be found, whatever your tastes.
Our city
For only £3.30 you can watch a lot of recently released movies at the University.
Film Unit Cinema shows over fifty films per semester, and they are all shown in the Nelson Mandela Auditorium.
Massimiliano Zingarelli
Bioengineering
From gig venues to a drama studio, the top-class facilities you'll find on campus will leave you spoiled for choice when it comes to keeping you entertained and informed.
The University is satisfied that the provisions of the Students' Union are such that students opting out of SU membership will not suffer any detriment or disadvantage as a result.
Discover what sets Sheffield apart at an undergraduate open day this Autumn.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/clubs-societies-sport:
Joining the University of Sheffield is only the beginning of something very exciting.
You'll become part of a much bigger, supportive, fun and vibrant community of like-minded people.
We have over 350 clubs and societies to get involved with at our Students' Union
It's also voted number one for Students' Union by the StudentCrowd 2024 University Awards.
There are over 350 societies and sports clubs to get involved with.
You could help to write the student newspaper or climb a mountain.
If there isn’t a club or society for you, then you can start your own.
You don't have to stick to one thing.
If you think your Singers society should get together with the Beekeeping society, go for it, see what happens.
If you don't have the time to go to anything regularly, our Give It a Go scheme lets you sample different clubs and activities on a pay and play basis.
Our award-winning Sheffield Volunteering scheme offers you the chance to work with schools and charities.
You can develop all sorts of skills – coaching, project management, leadership – in your spare time.
It's a great way to get involved with the wider Sheffield community.
Each year, thousands of students from the University dedicate their time to help local organisations.
We've got all the facilities to keep you motivated, including six synthetic pitches, a multi-purpose sports hall, three fitness studios, three squash courts and a well equipped multi-storey gym.
If you love the outdoors, the Peak District is right on your doorstep.
The Black and Gold community - the University's sports community - is one of the best parts of the student experience at Sheffield.
The camaraderie instilled amongst club members and the community is second to none and one sports club's success is everyone's success.
Not only that, the benefits aren’t just physical, there are so many positives from making lifelong friends to fuelling your competitive side.
Get involved if you want to take part in a sport you love or try a new hobby - you won’t regret it!
Iwan James
Wellbeing & Sports Officer 2022-23
You don't have to be a sports enthusiast.
You might discover a hidden talent for Ultimate Frisbee.
Or join a walking club and fall in love with the Peak District.
Whatever your ability or experience, you're sure to find something that you love.
Club Sport
Goodwin Sports Centre is our flagship facility.
We have a state-of-the-art gym, three fitness studios and a strength and conditioning suite to support a range of activities.
University of Sheffield Sport and Physical Activity
Every year our students compete in Sheffield Varsity .
We're proud to be the holders of the 2023 Varsity trophy.
I was amazed by how emotional I was - waving, shouting and feeling both joy and frustration, with hundreds of people sharing the same faith in our team.
Tansy Liu
Journalism
We run one of the biggest Campus Leagues in the country – with entries from around 400 teams.
Sign up as part of a University club or just get together with some friends and enter your own team.
You could represent the University in national competitions.
Or you could represent the University of Sheffield against other universities by getting involved in our BUCS teams and taking on fellow students each week.
If you're an athlete competing at national or international level, our Elite Sports Performance Scheme (ESPS) will help you make the most of your talent.
Here alumna Bryony Page, who won silver at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, talks about her Olympic experience and her time at Sheffield, including the support she received from University of Sheffield Sport and Physical Activity (previously known as Sport Sheffield).
If you have any questions about getting involved in sport at The University of Sheffield, please get in touch our team are more than happy to answer your questions
info@sport-sheffield.com

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/home:
Sheffield is a vibrant, green, modern city with real character.
Explore these pages to get a glimpse of what you could enjoy if you choose to study at Sheffield.
Learn why nearly 60,000 students make Sheffield their home.
There’s so much more to discover beyond the city.
Learn more about what our neighbourhoods have to offer.
Flavours from around the globe are waiting to be discovered.
From famous teams to grassroots sides, Sheffield has a rich sporting culture.
Sheffield has a renowned cultural heritage and a thriving arts scene.
With hundreds of green spaces and the peak district on our doorstep, outdoor adventures are in abundance in Sheffield.
Sheffield is bursting with activity after dark, with options to suit any interest.
From major brands to quirky independents, Sheffield offers an impressive shopping experience.
Let Ryan and Aleena take you on a tour of the best spots in the city of Sheffield

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/support:
We provide a network of support services to make sure you're happy, healthy and secure, so you can get on with doing what you do best.
We provide a range of support services to look after your health and wellbeing, enhance your opportunities for success and help you make the most of your time at university.
The Student Services Information Desk (SSiD) is a drop-in student information service that can answer the majority of your questions and provide a range of University documents.
Our Fees and Funding team provide help with applying for scholarships and financial support.
The Student Advice Centre , run by our Students’ Union, specialises in confidential advice on money and housing as well academic matters.
The University of Sheffield is committed to taking steps that will make a significant and credible difference to protecting students from harassment and sexual misconduct.
We provide a single comprehensive source of information, which sets out our policies and procedures, information about reporting harassment and sexual misconduct and details of support available for students who have been affected by harassment and/or sexual misconduct.
Information on reporting incidents and support available
Our dedicated welfare and support teams provide guidance for students experiencing significant difficulties and ensure that all students have access to appropriate support.
How we address discrimination and harassment
Our service provides confidential counselling and therapy as well as mental health support, specialist workshops, group sessions and self-help resources
We offer dedicated mental health support, counselling and psychological therapies.
You can register for support with our Student Mental Health, Counselling and Therapies Service.
Our team will help you navigate your support options and agree on a tailored plan of psychological support.
This includes assessing your suitability for counselling, therapy or other appropriate support services
If you have any concerns in relation to a student’s mental health or wellbeing, our Mental Health Guidance and Liaison Desk is available Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm.
We want our students and staff from all backgrounds, demographics and cultures to thrive and realise their potential.
That's why we’re committed to building a diverse community and an inclusive, supportive and collaborative environment.
We're using the University Mental Health Charter to help us adopt an approach to mental health and wellbeing that’s for everyone - including support for those with pre-existing or emerging mental health conditions.
We're one of the few universities which has a dedicated health service just for students.
All students and their dependants can register with our University Health Service for NHS care.
Our Student Wellbeing Service offers one-to-one support.
Students can meet with a Wellbeing Advisor in their faculty in person or online through Google Meet.
The service offers our events, groups and training.
If you have a long-term condition or impairment that could affect your ability to study, we can provide specialist support throughout your time at university through our Disability and Dyslexia Support Service .
I was scared that moving to university would mean my disability - an anxiety disorder - would go unnoticed and unsupported.
However, the services at the University make me feel as though I am more than a number.
They treat me as an individual.
We support international students with visa and immigration information and also organise a range of social activities to help students get to know the city of Sheffield and each other.
Our Global Campus programme includes online events and activities to help you settle into life in Sheffield and make new friends.
Our chaplains and religious advisers offer care and support to people of all faiths and none.
We work with communities and we offer opportunities for worship, prayer and spiritual exploration.
As a registered student, you’ll be assigned a member of staff in your academic department who can provide academic support.
Our 301: Academic Skills Centre offers a range of services and activities to support your academic and study skills development.
As a first-year student, you’ll be offered a peer mentor to help you with your transition into university life.
Our University Library provides a range of services and support, including access to extensive information resources, a wide range of flexible learning environments, and the support you need to achieve your learning goals, enhance your research or develop new skills.
With flexible services and outstanding facilities , you’ll have the freedom to do things your own way.
If you’re in University accommodation, you’ll be visited regularly by Residence Mentors who can provide support and guidance.
We’re proud to be an inclusive, tolerant and diverse community.
To ensure all our students have the opportunities to succeed, we offer additional support to underrepresented groups during their student journey and we have a dedicated Equality, Diversity and Inclusion team.
We have a number of programmes for students, including our race equality programme for all new students, and dedicated groups that work to improve your experience.
Inclusion at Sheffield
The Students' Union runs a nursery for children aged six months to five years old.
It's Ofsted registered (300762) and offers quality teaching and learning experiences for your child.
Fees are subsidised according to family income.
There’s also play schemes during the school holidays for children aged 4 to 12 years.
Explore our facilities
Undergraduate support for care leavers and estranged students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/home:
Here for when you want more than just a room.
For making memories, and finding lifelong friends.
Events to enjoy, and opportunities to learn.
Here for discovering your strengths, and exploring new interests.
To support you, anytime you need it.
Be part of Sheffield’s biggest student community.
Visit our accommodation and explore your living options at Open Days throughout the year, where our student ambassadors will take you on a tour of our most popular room types.
We have everything covered!
If you apply to live in University accommodation before September 3rd 2025, you're guaranteed a home with us.
Call: +44 114 222 4488 (option 2)
Email: accommodationoffice@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/rents:
Your rent includes utility bills, contents insurance and internet access, as well as access to Residence Life events and sports activities throughout the year.
All contracts are self-catered and are either 42, 44 or 51 weeks in length, with the majority of 51-week contracts reserved for Postgraduate students and 44-week contracts exclusive to Laddow Studios.
Apply now
Prices correct as of February 2025 - The final value to be charged will be provided during the booking process along with the payment schedule.
Ranmoor & Endcliffe accommodation
City accommodation
How to apply
Contracts and Policies

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/apply:
When and how you apply depends on what kind of offer you hold – though the process is pretty straightforward, and we help you every step of the way.
Once you’ve accepted your offer you can start looking for your new home, and we’re here to help you every step of the way.
You’ll receive an email with clear instructions on how to apply once applications open, so there’s no reason for you to miss out.
Apply now!
Self-selection means you can choose the exact location, building, flat and room when you apply for accommodation.
You can even see who you’ll be living with.
Read a bio written by each of your future flatmates, and maybe leave one of your own.
Don’t worry if you can’t find the exact area you’re looking for.
We release them in batches so everyone gets a chance – just make sure you check back regularly.
The self-selection system closes in June, at which point firm offer holders will apply through preferences.
Applying through preferences means you’ll tell us a few things in your application like room type, location, and any special requirements.
Then we use these to find the best fit for you.
These applications open on results day when you can apply for a room via preferences.
Students applying after results day are guaranteed a room, as long as you apply before the deadline.
We have dedicated accommodation for Postgraduate students, which you can apply for once you've accepted your offer from the University of Sheffield.
Once you have met the conditions of the offer, you can submit your preferences and will be allocated a room.
The Accommodation Office are here to help with any queries you have, please don't hesitate to get in touch if you have any questions.
If your place at the University of Sheffield International College has been confirmed, you will be invited by email to apply for accommodation (you’ll need to wait for an email from ‘usic.accommodation@sheffield.ac.uk')
If you have confirmed your place at USIC and haven't received your invitation, please contact us by email:
usic.accommodation@sheffield.ac.uk
Email us accommodationoffice@sheffield.ac.uk Or call +44 114 222 4488 (option 2)
Or speak to the Disability and Dyslexia Support Service by email disability.info@sheffield.ac.uk Or call +44 (0)114 222 1303 (Voice and text phone available).
Explore living options
Our guarantee
Parents and guardians
Maps

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/visit-us/home:
The best way to find out what studying at Sheffield is like is to visit us.
You'll get a feel for the atmosphere, the people, the campus and the city.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/open-days:
Discover what sets Sheffield apart at our next open day.
Booking is now open for our upcoming open days on
Book your place
There are are number of ways you can learn more about the University of Sheffield as part of our undergraduate open days:
Our undergraduate open days are also the perfect opportunity to speak to students and staff, and discuss the things that matter to you.
The full details of what’s on offer at our undergraduate open days can be found in our open day guide .
This guide is designed to help you make the most of your time with us and includes the times, locations and information you’ll need on the day.
The Access+ Travel Bursary is available to eligible students who are travelling to attend an open day.
Access+ Travel Bursary: full criteria and how to apply
Here are the other ways you can get a feel for the University and the city:
Open day frequently asked questions
Self-guided campus and city tours
Find the right course for you

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/visit:
Interested in postgraduate study?
Here are the ways you can explore the University.
Interested in postgraduate taught study?
Attend a range of events throughout the year.
We run campus tours all year round.
Come and visit our campus on a student led tour.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/visits:
We take part in events all over the world in order to give prospective students the opportunity to find out more about our university.
We are always pleased to meet prospective students and we very much hope you will be able to join us at one of the events.
The following information is updated regularly.
21st November 2025
3pm - 8pm
30th January 2026
28 September 2025
1:30pm-4:30pm
4 November 2025
10am-12pm
26 November 2025
9am-2:30pm
20th September 2025
10am-5pm
21st September 2025
4th October 2025
30th August 2025
1pm - 6pm
31st August 2025
16th September 2025
1pm - 7pm
24th September 2025
2pm - 7pm
1pm - 5pm
5th October 2025
11th October 2025
Timing TBC
15th September 2025
10am - 12:30pm
12pm - 6:30pm
27th September 2025
14-17 October 2025
10am - 12pm
16 October 2025
4pm - 8pm
17 October 2025
18 October 2025
2pm - 6pm
19 October 2025
13th September 2025
3pm - 6pm
18th September 2025
7pm - 9pm
5pm - 8pm
4 October 2025
2pm-4:30pm
2nd October 2025
8am - 11am
3rd October 2025
Get in touch
We're running a series of information sessions, student panels and virtual activities to help you understand what Sheffield has to offer.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/online-events:
Join our weekly online sessions to find out more about different aspects of University life.
We know that there’s a lot to consider when researching and choosing where to study.
Our Sheffield Live sessions take place online every Wednesday and cover all different aspects of University life to help you as you go through your application journey with us.
Sheffield Live runs throughout the year with sessions on different topics such as accommodation, student societies and extra-curricular activities.
There are also student and alumni panels plus regular opportunities for you to hear from academic departments about study options and course information.
Sheffield Live is open to everyone.
This includes:
From time to time there may be sessions which are only relevant to particular audiences, but these will be clearly labelled.
The booking form closes one hour before the advertised start time.
14 to 17 July 2025
Whether you’re thinking about your next step after you graduate or you’re considering returning to study, our Explore studying a masters event is a series of online talks and interactive sessions designed to help you discover the opportunities and benefits of postgraduate study, including our Alumni Discount.
Find out more about our "Explore studying a masters" event
As well as our Sheffield Live events you may also be interested in our online subject taster events.
These sessions are designed to help you experience what it is like to study a particular subject at the University of Sheffield.
They are for both year 12 and 13 students, as well as BTEC and mature students.
View our upcoming subject tasters
Remember you don’t have to wait until the next Sheffield Live session to get in touch with us!
You can get answers to common questions via online chat, connect to current students or register your interest in undergraduate study or postgraduate study to hear about our upcoming events.
Online events frequently asked questions (FAQs)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/subject-tasters:
Our subject taster sessions help students experience what it’s like to study at the University of Sheffield.
Our subject taster sessions offer students an opportunity to experience a university lecture or seminar, to get a taste of what studying at university is like.
Our interactive sessions are available for year 12 and 13 students who are considering their post-16 options, or for mature learners who are returning to education.
We have a wide range of subjects to choose from and our sessions are delivered both online and on-campus.
On the day you’ll join a group of other prospective university students for an interactive seminar, lecture or workshop.
During the session you’ll learn more about your chosen subject, speak to our academic and teaching staff, and experience what it’s like to be a University of Sheffield student.
Our online sessions are delivered virtually.
You'll join an online event delivered by one of our academics in the subject area of your choice.
View our online sessions
Our on-campus sessions are delivered on the university campus.
You’ll attend a session in one of our learning and teaching spaces.
View our on-campus sessions
If you have any questions about taster sessions email tasterdays@sheffield.ac.uk
Explore other ways to visit

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/apply/home:
How you can apply to study at the University of Sheffield.
Students returning to education
Online learning
Apprenticeships
TEFL and English as a second language

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply:
If you're applying for undergraduate study at Sheffield, you'll find all the key information on this page.
Please read it before you complete your application.
We normally expect applicants to offer three full A Levels or an accepted equivalent qualification.
You can check the University's general entry requirements, including accepted UK and international qualifications and our English language and mathematics requirements, on our Admissions Requirements webpage.
This also contains information about our foundation year courses.
Admissions requirements
You can find details of the entry requirements for particular courses in our online prospectus:
Online prospectus
Please note that these represent our typical offer conditions only – we may make different offers in some cases.
A full list of our formal policies relating to admissions is available on our Student Policies and Qualifications Policies webpages.
This includes our Student Admissions Policy as well as policies on A Level subject combinations, resits, and qualifications taken early.
Student policies
Qualifications policies
You can apply for an undergraduate course at Sheffield via UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service):
UCAS website – apply
Applications for places on courses starting in September 2026 (except Medicine and Dentistry) should be submitted to UCAS between:
Applications for places on Medicine and Dentistry courses must be submitted between 2 September and 15 October 2025.
You can find more information about how and when to apply on our Submitting Your Application webpage.
This also contains information about deferred entry and direct entry to Year/Level 2.
Submitting your application
We're committed to ensuring all students with the potential to succeed on our courses have access to a world-leading education at the University of Sheffield.
If you're from a group currently underrepresented in higher education, or have taken additional qualifications, you may be eligible for an alternative offer equivalent to one or two grades below the standard A Level entry requirements for your course.
For more information see our Access Sheffield webpage:
Access Sheffield
If at any time you find that your studies are affected by personal, social or domestic issues, please let us know by completing our Disrupted Studies form:
Disrupted Studies
If you have a disability, we would encourage you to indicate this in your UCAS application so that we can assess any support needs you might have.
We do this separately from our academic assessment of your application.
For more information about the process and the support available, see our Disabled Applicants webpage:
Disabled applicants
Watch our short Top Tips video if you're in the process of completing your UCAS application and need some help writing your personal statement.
You can find out what happens after you've submitted your application on our How We Assess Your Application page.
This explains what we look for when we assess your application, how we let you know our decision, and the sorts of offers we make.
How we assess your application
If we need to contact you we'll do so by email, so please make sure that you check the email account you used for your UCAS application, and that this account is set to trust messages coming from @shef.ac.uk and @sheffield.ac.uk addresses.
If you change your email address, please let us know by emailing us at admissions@sheffield.ac.uk , including your full name and UCAS ID.
You may wish to add this address to your address book to avoid important messages being marked as spam.
We explain what happens when you get your exam results in our Your Results page.
If we make you a Conditional offer and you accept us as either your Firm or Insurance choice, we'll also send you an email containing information about what happens when you get your exam results.
Your results
Get in touch online or by phone:
Contacts for prospective students
Undergraduate study

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/apply:
If you're applying for postgraduate taught study at Sheffield, you'll find all the key information on this page.
You can search for a course using our postgraduate taught course listings.
Each entry includes an introduction to the course, entry requirements, and links to further information on departmental webpages:
Postgraduate taught course listings
International students can find information about applying with qualifications from overseas institutions on our country pages:
Choose your country
Our English language requirements for postgraduate courses are available on our English Language Requirements webpage:
English language requirements for postgraduate courses
A full list of our formal policies, including our Student Admissions Policy, is available on our policies webpages:
You can apply for a postgraduate taught course using our Postgraduate Online Application Form.
You can find information about how to do this, and a link to the form, on our How To Apply page:
Information about the documents you should include to support your application, and how to supply these, is provided in our supporting documents guidance:
Supporting documents
The standard application deadlines are provided on our key dates and deadlines page.
A few courses use different deadlines.
If this is the case for your course, it will be indicated in the course listing .
We recommend that you apply early in the year (January/February) for courses that start in the autumn (September/October).
Key dates and deadlines for postgraduate courses
Disrupted studies
If you have a disability, we would encourage you to indicate this in your online application so that we can assess any support needs you might have.
You can find out what happens after you've submitted your application on our After You Apply webpage.
When we've made a decision on your application we'll send you an email to tell you what that decision is, and what you need to do next:
After you apply
If you'll need a visa to study in the UK, you can find more information about when and how we'll arrange your CAS on our CAS Application webpages:
CAS application
Postgraduate taught study

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/apply:
If you're applying for postgraduate research at Sheffield, you'll find all the key information on this page.
There are three ways you can undertake postgraduate/doctoral research at the University:
Find out more about these different options:
Routes to a PhD
You can search for supervisors, projects and Centres for Doctoral Training on our Find A PhD page.
If you want to research your own idea, you should contact the relevant academic department before you submit a formal application, to check that they have an appropriately-qualified supervisor in the area you'd like to study.
Find a PhD
PhD projects normally last between 3 and 4 years for full-time PhDs and 6 and 8 years for part-time PhDs, depending on the source of funding and scope of the research project.
This is the period during which tuition fees are payable.
You can find more information about PhD fees and fee-paying periods on our Fees webpage:
PhD fees
Information about academic entry requirements is available from the department in which your research is based.
Entry requirements vary depending on what you study – some subjects require a masters degree, others ask for a good undergraduate degree (a 2:1 or a First).
Links to departmental webpages are provided on the Find A PhD page.
You can apply for postgraduate research using our Postgraduate Online Application Form.
You may be asked to provide a research proposal as part of your application.
Please check the PhD pages of the relevant academic department for details of whether you need to do this and what you should include.
General guidance on how to write a research proposal has been developed by our 301 Academic Skills Centre:
How to write a research proposal
The standard application deadlines for students intending to start in the autumn (September/October) are provided on our key dates and deadlines page.
We recommend that these students apply early in the year (January/February).
Although we advise students to start in September/October, it's often possible to start postgraduate research at any point in the year.
You can state your preferred start date in your application, although this will need to be confirmed by the academic department.
You should leave yourself plenty of time between applying and your start date to make arrangements to come to Sheffield if we make you an offer, particularly if you're an International applicant and will need to arrange a student visa.
PhD study

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/applying:
You can apply to study at the University from anywhere in the world.
Find out more about our entry requirements and how to submit an application.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/home:
The International Student Support, Advice & Compliance (ISSAC) team are here to help you with your Student or Tier 4 visa needs and a range of study-related immigration matters.
Guidance on how to apply for a Student visa to study at Sheffield for both new and continuing students
Making a Visa application to study
Information and guidance on studying on a student visa.
During your course of study
Advice and information if you have completed, or are about to complete, your studies at Sheffield.
After your studies
Information on the EU Settlement Scheme for EU students.
EU students and Brexit
Information on applying for visitor and short-term student visas.
Visitor and short-term student visas
Information about what the ISSAC Team do, how to contact them and how to provide feedback.
About ISSAC

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/home:
We're a leading international university.
Our global reputation for teaching and research attracts more than 28,000 students from over 150 countries.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/after-you-apply/arriving-sheffield:
Living and studying in another country is an amazing and exciting experience and one which we are confident you will enjoy.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international-summer-school/home:
The Sheffield International Summer School combines world-class academic modules with exciting cultural excursions and social activities.
Aimed at inbound students, our next Sheffield International Summer School will open for applications in September 2025.
Our Sheffield International Summer School 2026 has three subject pathways to choose from - Designing towards sustainable regeneration, People Power: Protest & Social Change in 20th Century Britain and Reflective leadership for successful teams.
Applications will open in September 2025.
Find out how to apply and the entry requirements for each of our courses.
While you're with us you will have the opportunity to explore the city, make new friends and more!
Accommodation is included as part of the Summer School package.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-funding:
All you need to know about undergraduate fees and funding - plus online tools to help you work out your finances.
As a new student, it's important to know how much going to University will cost - and what funding help is available.
Signposting to additional funding opportunities for undergraduate students.
Information for home fee-paying students considering not taking out a student loan.
We're here to help.
If it's urgent or you can't find answers, call +44 114 222 9754
We're available from 10am until 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Outside of these times, complete the relevant online form.
We've also gathered answers to common questions about tuition fees, accommodation fees and reassessment charges .
Call us and select option two .
Alternatively, complete our student fees enquiry form .
Call us and select option three .
Alternatively, complete our student fee payments enquiry form .
Call us and select option one .
Alternatively, complete our student funding enquiry form .
For general advice, support and representation to help our students resolve their problems.
advice@sheffield.ac.uk
+44 114 222 8660

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/fees:
Find out about fees for masters courses at the University of Sheffield.
The fee for a course is listed on each postgraduate course listing page.
Browse postgraduate taught course listings You can also search for a fee using our calculator .
If you still can't find the fee for a course then please get in touch with the Student Fees team .
In common with other UK universities, the University of Sheffield charges different tuition fees depending on whether students are classed as Home or Overseas for fee purposes.
How we assess your fee status
Money Planner
Postgraduate taught funding
Information on tuition fees

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/funding:
Find out about our scholarships available to home fee-paying students.
Find out more about our range of scholarships available to international students.
Lucy Bloom, Senior Student Fees and Funding Assistant, provides an overview of the funding available to support students at postgraduate taught level.
Some postgraduate pre-registration healthcare courses have different fee and funding arrangements to other postgraduate courses.
MSc Midwifery
MMedSci Speech and Language Therapy
The PGCE is funded by the undergraduate support system and has an undergraduate fee.
You can also find out information about support from the government online.
Get Into Teaching - Fund your teacher training
Living costs - guidance on how much it costs to live in Sheffield and how to manage your money.
Student Funding Calculator - enter a few details and we'll suggest funding that you may be eligible for.
Money Planner - make a budget and take control of your finances.
Money Timeline - when you can expect to receive money and how best to manage your cash.
Postgraduate taught fees - how much your masters course will cost.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/fees:
View tuition fees alphabetically by department:
Tuition fees for postgraduate research degrees by department
Tuition fees for the degrees of Doctor of Medicine and Doctor of Dental Science are available once you have applied and subject to you having met the admission and eligibility criteria.
The tuition fee-paying period is the period during which full annual tuition fees are payable.
This varies between 3 and 4 years for full-time PhDs (6-8 years for part-time PhDs), depending on the source of funding and scope of the research project.
3.5 years is the recommended tuition fee-paying period for most full-time PhDs.
If you're still working on your project between the end of the tuition fee-paying period and the overall time limit (4 years for full-time PhDs, 8 years for part-time PhDs), restrictions may apply .
PhD projects should be designed from the start to ensure that they can be completed within the tuition fee-paying period, as this is the period during which most students also receive a stipend from their funder to support their living costs.
You'll discuss and agree the appropriate tuition-fee paying period for your project with your supervisor during the admissions process.
Precise details of both the tuition fee-paying period and the overall time limit for the degree will be included in the offer letter.
You can find more information about fee types and tuition fee-paying periods on our Research, Partnerships and Innovation webpages:
Periods of registration
I simply would not have been able to undertake this PhD without the university's funding and I am very grateful to be able to remain in the UK to continue my studies
Krissy Moore, Department of Archaeology
Doctoral Academy Award recipient

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/scholarships:
The UK Research Councils are a major source of financial support for research postgraduates.
Please follow this link for further information on UKRI funding opportunities:
List of Research Council scholarships
These include:
Schools and supervisors may have funding for specific projects throughout the year.
When available these projects may be advertised in the PhD projects directory or via information provided on school webpages.
Many charities, foundations and trusts provide funding for postgraduate study, from small grants to full scholarships.
Some are for specific subject areas while others have more general eligibility criteria.
Please see our list of additional funding for more information.
Visit our Applying essentials page for guidance on the application process and a link to our online application form.
Eligibility for UK, EU and international students
Postgraduate doctoral loans (home fee-paying students)
Alumni Discount

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/home:
Our research changes lives and influences policy.
We're addressing some of the world's most pressing challenges, from developing new treatments for life-threatening diseases to solving the problem of feeding a world of 10 billion and driving low-carbon technology.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-pillars/research:
Our distinctive and innovative research will be world-leading and world-changing.
We will produce the highest quality research to drive intellectual advances and address global challenges.
We will enable and actively promote a culture of research excellence across our University community, delivering internationally recognised outputs, supported by sector-leading research income and facilities.
Our research excellence, innovative training, and commitment to researcher development and wellbeing will make us the institution of choice for postgraduate research students (PGRs).
1 in 2 people will develop some form of cancer during their lifetime.
Scientists from Sheffield have developed a novel approach to killing cancer cells that reduces stress on the immune system.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/people:
Our research influences policy, changes lives and helps us to understand the world so that we can make it better.
We're proud of our staff and how their work makes a difference.
Sue leads on the University’s research activity, including research excellence, the centres of excellence, Research Excellence Framework (REF) preparations, grant activity and impact.
She works closely with Professor Dave Petley, Vice-President for Innovation.
Professor Sue Hartley's staff profile
Our five Faculty Directors of Research & Innovation (FDRIs) are responsible for developing and leading research, innovation and knowledge exchange strategies for their respective research areas.
Nicola Dibben is Professor in Music and took up the role of Faculty Director of Research and Innovation in 2018.
Research and innovation in the Faculty
Professor Nicola Dibben's staff page
Research and innovation in the faculty
Professor Mark Dickman's staff page
Professor Hatton is one of Europe’s leading bioengineers with an interdisciplinary research group working on innovative and emerging healthcare and manufacturing technologies to improve the repair and regeneration of human musculoskeletal and dental tissues.
Professor Paul Hatton's staff page
Professor Andrew Fleming's staff page
Professor David Robinson's staff page
Be the first to receive developments in key research areas through our Sheffield Research Roundup.
The University's cross-faculty research centres harness our interdisciplinary expertise to solve the world's most pressing challenges.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/ref-2021:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) confirms our place as a world-leading university.
The results show our research and impact excellence across a broad range of disciplines and demonstrate that our research is having a significant positive impact on lives across the globe.
The REF assesses the quality and impact of research taking place in UK universities.
The results inform the allocation of around £2 billion per year of public funding for universities’ research.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 results confirm our research is changing lives and shaping the world we live in.
Our vision is to produce the highest quality research to drive intellectual advances and address global challenges.
The REF results demonstrate that we are advancing towards this goal.
The REF is a retrospective exercise looking back over seven years of incredible research at our University.
We’re proud of everything that our researchers, and those that support our research environment have achieved.
But we’re also excited for the future and the inspiring discoveries we are yet to make.
92 per cent of our research is rated in the highest two categories in the REF 2021, meaning it is classed as world-leading or internationally excellent.
The REF results demonstrate our research and impact excellence across a broad range of disciplines and confirm that our research is having a significant positive impact on lives across the globe.
We submitted to 25 different REF units of assessment comprising:
View all REF 2021 results

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/rpi/home:
We offer a range of support for postgraduate research students and academic researchers.
Working with the University of Sheffield can have a significant impact on your organisation, whether you are a multinational blue chip, a forward-thinking SME, a charity or an NGO.
Working with partners to make the region healthier, greener, more vibrant and innovative for all.
Research, Partnerships and Innovation supports postgraduate research (PGR) students and staff with all aspects of University regulations and policies concerning postgraduate study.
Specific information needed by our research partners such as contracts.
Grant support
Policies, guidance and information about aspects of research integrity and research ethics.
Research ethics and integrity
Impact guidance, toolkits, and resources.
Impact
We are committed to supporting researchers by enhancing their University experience and contributing to their career development.
Researcher development
We translate academic research into commercial ventures and create opportunities for investors.
Commercialisation and IP
By inspiring the University of Sheffield community to be entrepreneurial, the Emerge: Be Enterprising programme supports students, staff and graduates to develop business ideas (based on non-University intellectual property).
Entrepreneurship

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/culture:
Excellent research requires an excellent research environment.
We're working hard to develop our research culture and foster a community of inclusion, support and collaboration.
At Sheffield, we're proud of our open, inclusive and supportive culture of research.
It's nurtured and developed by colleagues across the University, embracing researchers and research-enabling staff at every career stage.
Like all institutions, however, we know there is still work to do.
We are listening to our research community , piloting new and innovative approaches , and establishing strategic leadership and accountability to grow even further.
Together, we're transforming our research culture for the better and creating an environment we all can thrive in.
The Action Plan for Research Culture – led by John Flint, Deputy Vice President for Research and Meera Warrier, Assistant Director of Researchers and Culture, RPI – is a milestone in the University's institutional commitment to enhancing research culture.
It has been informed by the work of the Steering Board, and the hundreds of colleagues who have generously and candidly shared their experiences and feedback, positive and negative.
Read the Action Plan
We've received substantial funding from Research England to invest in developing our research culture, enabling us to explore new and innovative approaches to open research, EDI, and career development.
We're continuing to engage with our research community to understand the strengths in our environment, identify areas to improve on and create the future of our research culture together.
With representation from colleagues across the University, the Steering Board provides leadership and coordination to develop our research culture.
Technical Managers, Sam Whitehouse and Melanie Hannah, speak to Vice-Chancellor Koen Lamberts about the vital contributions technicians make to the University.
Our strong culture of open research is key to enabling research excellence.
We're committed to making the processes and outputs of our research transparent and freely accessible, wherever possible.
We want to nurture the development of our future research leaders and provide support and development opportunities at every stage.
We strive to foster an inclusive research environment where everyone feels valued and supported.
We will advance a culture of research excellence underpinned by innovative training and dedication to researcher development and wellbeing.
Strategic priorities for research
We have made a series of public commitments to develop our research culture, and our good practices have been widely recognised.
See our commitments and action plans
Clinical research should reflect the diversity of our society, but that’s not always the case.
Researchers at Sheffield have developed a powerful tool to help recruit more diverse and representative research participants.
Sheffield's Participatory Research Network is a cross-faculty initiative bringing together like-minded researchers who use – or are interested in using – participatory methods in their work.
Discover career development and support in an inclusive environment.
Grow your career at a leading university with a reputation for excellence.
Research careers at Sheffield
Information, guidance, and examples of best practice to support both research staff preparing narrative CVs and reviewers evaluating them for research grants and fellowships.
About Narrative CVs
If you want to know more about our research culture work, get involved or provide feedback, please get in touch.
Contact us
We'll deliver support, guidance and development every step of the way.
Begin your postgraduate research journey in a supportive and inclusive environment.
Find PhD opportunities

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/openresearch/home:
Open Research is the practice of making the processes and outputs of research transparent and freely accessible, whenever possible, and it is key to enabling and promoting research excellence across our community.
The results of the 2025 TUoS Open Research Prize have been announced - read more about the winners and their work.
OpenFest 2025 will take place between 2nd-5th September 2025.
View the programme and book your place.
We recognise that Open Research is vital to our commitment to enabling and promoting research excellence across our community.
Created to celebrate the outcomes of the University's Open Research Prize, our short film showcases researchers' excellent practice and the University's strong commitment to supporting open research.
Showcasing recent projects from the University of Sheffield which used a range of open research practices to improve the transparency and accessibility of the research.
Six researchers from across the University explore their experiences of making their research data and software FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable.
Read and view video and text-based case studies from researchers across TUoS who have published an open access book.
Information about upcoming events for internal and external researchers, as well as resources from past events.
Enthusiastic about open research?
Sign up to be an Open Research Champion
Ways to get involved with the open research community at Sheffield.
Research on Research Institute is an open and independent initiative providing data, analysis and intelligence on how to make research systems more strategic, open, diverse and inclusive.
Jointly run by the White Rose Universities of Sheffield, Leeds and York, White Rose University Press (WRUP) is the University of Sheffield’s in-house open access university press.
Learn more about the movement towards responsible research assessment, and the University of Sheffield's commitment to this.
Find out how Plan S aims to accelerate the transition to open access.
Learn more about the University of Sheffield's involvement in a five-year UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN) project to accelerate the uptake of high-quality open research practices.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/search:
There are different ways to find the right PhD for you:
Browse our PhD project directory.
PhD project directory
You can either browser supervisors by department or search for them by keyword.
Most supervisors also have a personal webpage where you can find out more about them.
Search for a supervisor
Find out who's doing the kind of research you're interested in – school web pages are a good place to start.
Schools also advertise funded PhD projects.
Full department and faculty A–Z list
We're building a community of doctoral researchers funded through our Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs), Doctoral Training Centres (DTCs), Industrial Doctoral Centres (IDCs) and Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs).
Each partnership and centre focuses on a specific area of research that addresses one of the global challenges of our time.
Most are run jointly with other leading UK universities and developed in consultation with world-leading industrial and policy partners, so you benefit from a wide range of expertise and resources.
You can apply direct to a training centre or in some cases to the University.
Full of list of UKRI funded CDTs/DTPs

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/projects:
Search for a Sheffield PhD via department, supervisor, discipline, research group, funding status or keywords.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/centres:
Our world-leading research centres and facilities make an incredible impact.
By harnessing our wealth of interdisciplinary expertise, and together with partners across the world, they are constantly furthering academic knowledge and addressing the wide range of global challenges facing society.
Our cross-faculty research centres harness the University's wealth of interdisciplinary expertise and research excellence, making vital contributions to research, academia and the world around us.
In partnership with experts from business, policy and academia, our externally funded centres are vibrant hubs of collaboration and world-leading research.
Our five faculties' research centres are leaders in their field, bringing together multidisciplinary approaches and cutting-edge collaborations to further theory and practice.
Explore a complete list of our research centres and institutes.
Our translational research centres bridge the gap between industry needs and curiosity-driven academic research.
They're led by industrial partners and boost innovation and skills across sectors.
We're home to world-class facilities that support research, both within the University and in collaboration with a wide range of local and international partners.
One of the world’s leading innovators in bio-inspired AI has joined the University of Sheffield, as part of a new multi-million pound centre that is set to transform the institution’s research, innovation and teaching around artificial intelligence.
The UK along with 15 of the G20 nations are forecast to have a negative ecological footprint by 2050, according to a study led by Professor Lenny Koh from Sheffield’s Energy Institute.
Progress in research culture
Technical talent and expertise are critical to research.
From managing research facilities to developing industry partnerships, our highly skilled technicians make vital contributions to our University.
Championing our technicians
We're curious about the world and know our vital role in creating positive change within it.
Our ideas and expertise make a tangible difference to communities, policy, our partners and wider society.
Making our mark on the world
Whether you are a multinational blue chip, a forward-thinking SME, a charity or an NGO, working with the University of Sheffield can have a significant impact on your organisation.
Forging powerful partnerships
From finding and submitting funding applications to project management, finance and ethics, researchers can find a range of resources and support on the Staff Hub.
Support for researchers (login required)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/centres/cross-faculty:
Sheffield's cross-faculty research centres harness the University's wealth of interdisciplinary expertise and research excellence to solve the world's most pressing challenges.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/collaborate/support-industry/access-facilities:
Shaping the regional economy
Many of our world-class facilities are available for use by industry and universities.
All of our equipment is maintained and used by experts in their area, who are also available to help you get best value in solving your business problems, ranging from routine testing/analysis to advanced research
Staff in our business gateways will be very happy to discuss your needs and to put you in contact with academics who can help.
Please contact us for more information.
Explore state-of-the-art equipment and facilities across the University
Partner with us

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/library/research:
Information for researchers about research data management, publishing, open access, training and support.
Find information on REF open access policy, funder requirements, gold and green open access.
Details about managing research data, University and funder policies.
Copyright for eTheses, thesis embargo and Doctoral Development Programme (DDP) information.
See how to use bibliometrics and altmetrics to gauge how much attention research outputs have received.
Search for eTheses, requesting material from other libraries and information skills.
Contact us to find out about our training opportunities.
There are many ways to discover and access scholarly works, both through the University’s subscribed content and through open access resources.
Discover our information resources
Guidance and resources to help with writing systematic and literature reviews.
Read about systematic reviews
A data management plan describes the data you will collect during your research and how it will be managed, both during and after the project.
Learn more about data management planning
As a researcher, you will frequently make use of third party copyright material.
You will also produce intellectual creations of your own.
This webpage deals with these issues.
Get copyright advice
This guide gives an introduction to bibliometrics and altmetrics and how you can use them to track attention received by published research outputs.
Learn more about citations
Read our policy support for Open Research and find practical support.
Learn about Open Research
Text and data mining (TDM) is the process of extracting information from existing files, usually using computational methods.
Find guidance (University login required)
Building community around data visualisation at the University of Sheffield.
Visit the data visualisation hub
The SafePod at The University of Sheffield is a safe setting allowing researchers to access sensitive datasets.
Find out more about the SafePod.
Visit the Cultural and Heritage collections, where we collect, preserve and provide access to our extraordinary collections.
Go to the Cultural and Heritage collections
Guidance on finding, accessing and producing your own scholarly publications.
Learn about scholarly publishing
When sharing research data there are a few simple steps you can take to make it discoverable and accessible.
This will help potential collaborators to find your work and you to reuse your data in the future.
Find more about sharing research data
If you’re an early career researcher looking to publish your own book or start up your own journal explore the options offered by  White Rose University Press.
Visit White Rose University Press
Guidance designed to support our staff and students in making appropriate decisions with regard to copyrighted material, both their own and that of others.
Learn more about copyright

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/about/impact:
We help change the world for the better and make a positive, meaningful difference to society.
That's why we're 42nd in the world and 8th in the UK for impact (THE Impact Rankings 2023).
We are pioneering new technologies, transforming health and social care, finding solutions to social and cultural challenges and addressing global issues in food, energy and climate.
Through over 80 research projects in over 30 countries, we're working with communities, researchers and partners across the world to build a sustainable, equitable future for everyone.
Our world-leading teaching staff's innovative approaches and expertise have international significance and influence how subjects are taught in the UK and beyond, and we provide our students with opportunities to collaborate and help shape the world around them.
Since 2019, we've supported our academics in founding spinout companies to bring their research findings to market, raising millions of pounds in investment and creating over 100 jobs.
We strive to think globally and act locally.
We're collaborating with community partners on hundreds of projects that enhance the lives of thousands of people in South Yorkshire and make our region healthier, greener, more vibrant and innovative for all.
We work with household-name multinationals, SMEs, governments and NGOs to develop innovative solutions to local and global challenges, from consultancy and community outreach to building a world-class industrial district.
From art to artificial intelligence and climate change to cutting-edge medicine, the Player is a unique platform showcasing Sheffield research, events and festivals through film, podcasts and digital exhibitions.
We're renowned for the excellence, impact and distinctiveness of our research-led learning and teaching.
Find out more about our heritage, history and reputation.
Our core mission is to deliver life-enhancing research, innovation and education that not only transforms the lives of our graduates, but shapes the world we live in.
Explore our vision and strategic plan
Find resources on pathways to impact, training and events on the Staff Hub.
Impact resources (login required)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features:
Our research is changing lives.
We are pioneering new technologies, transforming health and social care, finding solutions to social and cultural challenges and working towards a sustainable, equitable future for everyone.
Explore how.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/sdg:
Through over 80 research projects in over 30 countries, researchers at the University of Sheffield are working in partnership with universities, businesses and communities across the world, towards a sustainable, equitable future for everyone.
Through over 80 research projects in over 30 countries, researchers at The University of Sheffield are working in partnership with universities, businesses and communities across the world, towards a sustainable, equitable future for everyone.
The global population is growing, placing increasing demand on the world's finite resources and exacerbating the climate crisis.
At the same time we need to make sure everyone has equitable access to food, energy, health care, education, jobs and justice.
To tackle these conflicting issues, all United Nation member states have adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development .
The agenda outlines 17 sustainable development goals that are designed to address challenges faced all over the world.
The goals set out a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all.
The University of Sheffield is delivering over 80 research projects that span the breadth of all 17 sustainable development goals.
To do this we have partnered with research institutions, businesses, governments and community groups in more than 30 countries.
We understand that one solution will not work everywhere.
It is important to consider the different cultural, social, economic and environmental contexts that our projects operate in and co-produce solutions with the people who are directly impacted by our research.
We’re already seeing positive change resulting from our work but there is much more to be done.
We will continue working alongside our colleagues across the world to mitigate the worsening effects of the climate crisis, and improve quality of life for everyone.
How we're working towards the goals as a University
Societal expectations of becoming a parent soon after marriage are high in The Gambia, but thousands of couples face involuntary childlessness, or infertility.
Our international research collaboration is improving fertility awareness, guiding policy and transforming practice.
Air pollution is a growing threat to our health and climate.
But research by Dr Stuart Campbell found that its effects on plants could be worse than we initially thought.
On the morning of August 15 2021 the flourishing musicscape of Afghanistan fell silent.
As the Taliban regime came back into force, musicians disappeared and fled.
Dr Cayenna Ponchione-Bailey is working with Afghan musicians now living in exile to create new platforms to share their work.
Journalists face serious kinds of human rights abuse simply for trying to keep the public informed.
Researchers at the University of Sheffield are developing a framework to improve data collection on the full range of violations against journalists and track trends to prevent future attacks.
Attacked by extremist groups and enduring climate disasters, Burkina Faso is dealing with a humanitarian emergency that has been worsened by Covid-19.
Rumours about the pandemic and vaccinations are commonplace.
Our methodology prevents the spread of misinformation across communities in Burkina Faso, and beyond.
People in Buenaventura face ongoing violence from armed organisations.
Researchers at the University of Sheffield and their partners at Javeriana University, CINEP and CORMEPAZ, have been awarded the Economic & Social Research Council’s Societal Impact Prize for the coproduction of a peace strategy.
Solar power is seen as a key way of addressing East Africa’s energy challenges, but the solution is not as simple as installing traditional solar panels across large areas of land.
Agrivoltaic energy systems can combine the delivery of solar electricity, crop production, and rainwater harvesting on the same land area.
Gender equality is a human right.
But how do you shift societal views of women in one of the most unequal regions in the world?
Research at the University of Sheffield is at the forefront of promoting gender equality in Latin American schools by celebrating women who helped shape the region.
Prior to the start of the pandemic, Nepal was in the midst of a major political restructure.
Researchers at the University of Sheffield are investigating the prospects and challenges of decentralising the healthcare system, and how this restructuring has affected the delivery of healthcare during COVID-19.
An innovative project has used video to help communities in Nepal voice their experiences of natural disaster to the policymakers responsible for disaster risk reduction strategies.
Women in Niger are victim to widespread gender inequality.
This is enforced by a lack of knowledge regarding their legal rights and best health practices.
But radio could provide a platform for female empowerment.
Africa is experiencing increasing levels of obesity in its cities, particularly in women.
Prior to this project, policy responses to the rise in obesity in Africa have had limited success.
This is because they were mostly influenced by experiences in higher income countries which are less relevant to African cities.
Researchers from the University of Sheffield are part of a centre that is trying a new approach to support nine partner universities across Africa to tackle water infrastructure challenges.
In 2018, rates of access to electricity in Ethiopia, Malawi, and Mozambique were 44%, 13%, and 27% respectively.
Despite recent improvements, 97 million people living in these countries still lack power.
The project investigates the role of Community Energy Systems to bridge the energy access gap in East Africa.
In Jordan, neither the government nor the UNHCR who manage the Zaatari refugee camp, have the buying power to compete for global PPE supplies, leaving 660,000 refugees without.
This project is about empowering refugees in a moment of health crisis.
Rapid urban population growth can leave already overstretched authorities unable to operate effectively.
This leads to a lack of safe and suitable infrastructure, service provision and proper documentation.
A new pay as you go smart battery rental system supplies affordable, clean power to poor households and enterprises in off-grid communities.
The batteries are charged at solar charging stations and reduce energy costs by up to 75%.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/people/nobel-laureates:
Our staff and students achieve great things.
Six members of our staff have been awarded a prestigious Nobel Prize.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2016
Professor Sir Fraser Stoddart (ICI Research Fellow then Lecturer 1970-1978; Reader in Chemistry 1981-1990) shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2016 with Jean-Pierre Sauvage and Bernard L.
Feringa for the design and synthesis of the world's smallest molecular machines, which are a thousand times thinner than a strand of hair.
Their work has dramatically changed the way in which chemists can prepare complex assemblies of individually simple components so that useful functions emerge on a tiny scale.
This will have a fundamental role to play in the future development of nanotechnology.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1996
Sir Harry (BSc Chemistry 1961, PhD 1964) shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1996 with Robert Curl and Richard Smalley for discovering a new form of carbon, known as "buckminsterfullerene", which stands alongside the two other well-defined forms, diamond and graphite.
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1993
Sir Richard (BSc Chemistry 1965, PhD 1968) shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1993 with Phillip Sharp for their discovery of "split genes", thereby disproving the long-held theory that genes in plants and animals were made up of continuous segments of DNA.
This has important biological, medical and evolutionary consequences.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1967
Lord Porter (Professor of Physical Chemistry 1955-66) shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1967 with Ronald Wreyford for their discovery of flash photolysis, a technique which enabled chemists for the first time to measure the speed and mechanism of certain reactions that occurred too quickly for detection by conventional methods.
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1953
Sir Hans (Lecturer in Pharmacology 1935-45, Professor of Biochemistry 1945-54) was a German-born physician and biochemist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1953 with Fritz Lipmann for his discovery of the citric acid cycle, since named the Krebs Cycle, which explains how life-giving energy is set free in cells by oxidation of glucose to carbon dioxide and water.
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1945
Lord Florey (Joseph Hunter Chair of Pathology 1932-35) was an Australian pharmacologist and pathologist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1945 with Sir Ernst Boris Chain and Sir Alexander Fleming for the discovery of penicillin and its curative effect in various infectious diseases.
Florey is regarded by the Australian scientific and medical community as one of its greatest scientists.
More than 82 million lives worldwide have been saved thanks to the discovery of the drug.
Other outstanding Sheffield alumni

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/about/queens-prize:
We've been awarded five Queen’s Anniversary Prizes, an award that recognises quality and innovation in research, and achievements that have made an outstanding contribution to the nation's intellectual, economic, cultural and social life.
The Queen's Prize is the most distinguished award that can be made to a UK institution for higher or further education.
The awards are designed to recognise the outstanding contribution that universities and colleges in the United Kingdom make to the intellectual, economic, cultural and social life of the nation.
The scheme sits alongside, though separate from, the Queen's Awards to Industry and is operated by the Royal Anniversary Trust.
The first Queen's Anniversary Prizes were awarded in 1994 and the scheme is held biennially.
All universities and colleges in the UK are eligible to enter the competition.
The 1998 competition attracted over 200 entries and from these 21 awards have been made.
Each institution is permitted only one entry to the competition.
The Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN) was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2019 for research that has improved patient outcomes for people living with some of the most devastating neurodegenerative diseases.
Our Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC) received the Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education in 2007.
This award commends 'outstanding achievement at a world-class level' and recognised the AMRC's innovative collaborations between academia and industry.
The Institute for Studies on Ageing addressed many of the key health and social care issues arising from increased expectations for a higher quality of life in old age.
A range of assessment methods produced at the institute for determining the health and social care needs of older people and their carers are now used in many European countries.
The University of Sheffield continues its transformative research into ageing through its flagship Healthy Lifespan Institute .
Sheffield University Waste Incineration Centre
Groundwater Protection and Restoration Group
Environmental Consultancy University of Sheffield
Humanities Research Institute
Energy Institute
Institute for Sustainable Food
Healthy Lifespan Institute
Neuroscience Institute
We are the University of Sheffield.
And this is our vision.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/contact:
Here you'll see all the ways you can make contact with the University of Sheffield's research capacities.
We're proud of our staff and how their work makes our research so impactful.
Get in touch with our research leads
For support or prospective partnerships, email us and we'll put you in touch with who can help best.
Email us
Our people are at the heart of everything we do.
Join us to become part of something special.
Latest job opportunities
Open Research is the practice of making the processes and outputs of research transparent and freely accessible, whenever possible.
Promoting research excellence across our community
Book on an online open day to find out what makes studying at Sheffield special.
PhD open days
Sign up to our newsletter

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/collaborate/home:
Partnering with the University of Sheffield can have a transformative impact on your organisation, regardless of size or sector.
Whether you're a global giant or a local nonprofit, we can collaborate to achieve remarkable results.
Harness our exceptional talent pool of students, cutting-edge training programmes and state-of-the-art research facilities.
Through strategic partnerships, we can collaborate on research, share best practices, and develop innovative solutions to complex problems.
We actively grow partnerships, which can develop from a single meeting and small project to multiple collaborations and long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships.
Global media company Zoo Digtial works at the forefront of technology for dubbing speech in films but needed a helping hand from us.
Building on a two-decade sustainability focus, Unilever partnered with the university's Faculty of Science to advance sustainable product reformulations.
University analysis of animal bones aided PCAS Archaeology in meeting regulatory requirements for mineral development.
We have a long history of successful partnerships, ranging from consulting projects and knowledge transfer partnerships to major international collaborations.
The University of Sheffield AMRC and Boeing won the 2024 Bhattacharyya Award – a government-backed prize celebrating the UK’s most impactful academia-industry collaborations.
Adam Cartwright, Head of Internet of Things Applications at Siemens, shares his insights on the unique value of our partnership.
The University's second annual Knowledge Exchange and Impact Awards honoured colleagues for their exceptional achievements and the far-reaching impact of their collaborations with partners at local, national and international levels.
University of Sheffield data scientist Dan Olner is part of the pioneering team working with Y-PERN (The Yorkshire & Humber Policy Engagement and Research Network), the new partnership linking the worlds of academia and local government.
An AI approach developed by researchers from the University of Sheffield and AstraZeneca, could make it easier to design proteins needed for new treatments.
The University of Sheffield AMRC has welcomed news that Rolls-Royce SMR has been selected as the preferred bidder to partner with Great British Energy – Nuclear to develop small modular reactors for the UK.
We're here to answer any queries you have and point you in the right direction directly to the team who can help you.
Email collaborate@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/collaborate/support-industry:
Ready to revolutionise your organisation?
Partner with us and unlock the power of our student talent, access our innovative training, groundbreaking research, and state-of-the-art facilities.
Explore a wealth of knowledge and skills by tapping into our community of motivated students and graduates.
Their up-to-date knowledge and transferable skills can help your organisation grow.
Our research centres fuel ground-breaking research in collaboration with diverse partners.
They're led by industrial partners and boost levels of innovation and skills across specific sectors.
Collaborate and innovate in our dynamic facilities, where specialist equipment and expert staff are at your fingertips.
Open to researchers, organisations, and businesses.
Let our experts decode the latest research, delivering actionable insights to drive your organisation forward.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/collaborate/partners:
Partnering with industry leaders to innovate solutions for global challenges.
By collaborating with our partners, we unlock their potential and build a powerful network of innovation.
Here are a few examples of our partnerships in action:
The University of Sheffield and Siemens' enduring partnership has fostered innovative projects and strengthened collaboration.
By channeling research into practical solutions, we're addressing global challenges together.
The UKAEA is a major partner and together we are driving the international development of fusion energy technology to help realise its enormous potential for generating low-carbon electricity.
As a civic university, we are committed to fostering collaboration and driving economic growth throughout South Yorkshire.
We're here to help you navigate the complex landscape of policymaking and ensure your work leaves a lasting legacy.
The AMRC and Boeing won the 2024 Bhattacharyya Award for their impactful collaboration.
Our work with McLaren is bringing new industry to the Sheffield City Region.
Our collaborations with UK water companies addresses challenges and delivers impact.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/city-region/home:
Working with organisations and individuals across South Yorkshire we’ve created the Made Together programme: a major University of Sheffield regeneration initiative with a dedicated team of staff and a clear brief to do four things: make our region healthier, greener, more vibrant and innovative for all.
Read our brochure
See what our partners say about Made Together
As a champion of both the city and region, we collaborate closely with partners to fuel economic growth, drive innovation and positively impact people and communities across the city, region and beyond.
Generating £4.82 billion for South Yorkshire and UK economies
From Barnsley to Rotherham to Doncaster and back to Sheffield, we’re completing hundreds of projects that will enhance the lives of thousands of people in the region.
We recognise the talent of our students and staff is our single greatest asset and we are committed to finding new ways of sharing our talent across the region.
We’re working with partners to regenerate the region by investing in spaces and technology, transforming key public places in the city and making sure that South Yorkshire keeps its crown as a world-leading advanced manufacturing hub.
Lasting regeneration of the South Yorkshire region must reach beyond the usual beneficiaries to re-energise and involve all communities and corners of the region.
We have a simple but genuine ambition to be a trusted civic partner and role model for the region and an organisation that adds up to more than the sum of its many parts.
The Insigneo Institute, working in close collaboration with the Yorkshire MedTech Place-based Impact Accelerator, held an exciting Industry Day showcasing established MedTech collaborations between Yorkshire-based academics and industrial partners.
The University of Sheffield today announced the launch of the Yorkshire Engagement Portal (YEP), a groundbreaking open-access data analytics platform designed to empower communities, businesses, and policymakers across Yorkshire and the Humber.
Emma Peet won the UK Student Nurse of the Year award while studying at the University of Sheffield and working in collaboration with Barnsley Hospital.
Off the Shelf Festival of Words is one of the largest literary festivals in the UK.
Every year we bring the biggest names in literature, media and the arts to Sheffield, celebrating books, words and ideas.
Watch our festival highlights.
Working with partners across the South Yorkshire region to solve sustainability challenges and help to provide jobs, skills and economic opportunities.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/internationalpartnerships/home:
We work closely with prestigious universities across the globe.
It is by working in partnership that we are world-leading in research, teaching and global experiences.
The University of Sheffield has further strengthened its partnership with China's leading Nanjing University by signing an agreement to boost research collaborations between the two institutions.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/internationalpartnerships/global-networks:
Our membership of global networks extends our international reach and furthers our capacity for world-class research.
The Worldwide Universities Network (WUN) is a leading global higher education and research network made up of 23 universities, spanning 15 countries on six continents.
The Association of Commonwealth Universities represents more than 500 universities from 50 commonwealth countries.
How can we make 21st century systems of care sustainable?
and how can citizens be empowered to have more control over how care resources are accessed and care costs distributed?
Global engagement

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/global/we-are-international:
We value international students and are passionate about ensuring that their contribution to our economy and culture is recognised.
That's why we launched the #We are international campaign.
Now the UK Council for International Student Affairs is driving forward the award-winning campaign.
We launched #WeAreInternational in 2013 as a collaboration with our Students' Union.
Over 160 universities, education institutions and international organisations backed the campaign.
Find out more about the roots of our campaign, how it's grown and the impact it's had.
We realised that the positive impact of international students had been buried.
So in response, we wanted to stand together with academics, students, the community, city leaders and other partners to show that Sheffield is a city that says no to prejudice and one that values its international students.
More importantly, we needed to influence the debate to ensure the contribution that international students make – not just financial, but to the knowledge base, economy and culture – was celebrated here in the UK and communicated more widely to the world.
In 2013 we commissioned a report from Oxford Economics that showed international students in Sheffield are responsible for pumping over £120 million into the city economy over a single year – that’s 10 per cent of inward investment in Sheffield.
The report, launched at the Houses of Parliament, sparked a parliamentary debate on the importance of international students and later led to the University of Sheffield's Students' Union President and International Officer being invited to parliament to make the case for international students as the controversial immigration bill returned to the House of Commons.
Our research also highlighted that international students are ingrained in city life.
They work on placements in our hospitals and businesses; they volunteer for over 140 Sheffield charities and schools.
They also enrich the cultural life of the city through a spectacular programme of music, food, dance and language events all year round, many of which are organised through our very own Students' Union.
After publicising how international students benefit a major UK city like Sheffield, we were keen to expand this to a broader campaign with the support of all universities, students' unions and all those who are concerned about international students in the UK.
The campaign was supported by more than 160 UK universities and colleges, the British Council and the Home Office.
We forged links internationally, working closely with representatives from Temple University in Philadelphia, USA who used We Are International as an inspiration for their own #YouAreWelcomeHere campaign, set up in response to the new administration's policies on immigration.
Oxford Economics report launched at the Houses of Parliament that showed international students in Sheffield are responsible for pumping over £120 million into the city economy over a single year – that's 10 per cent of inward investment in Sheffield.
The report sparked a parliamentary debate on the importance of international students.
Campaign relaunched following the EU referendum and the decision to leave the European Union with a statement of solidarity between the University of Sheffield, Sheffield Hallam University and Sheffield College.
A survey of 62,000 ​prospective international students found that the degree to which a study destination is perceived as welcoming and safe is one of the most important factors in student decision making.
84 per cent of prospective international students (Hobsons' International Student Survey, 2017) said campaigns such as #WeAreInternational positively influenced their perception of the UK, and that the higher education sector should build upon and expand these efforts to encourage international students to keep on coming.
In Sheffield we are very proud of this campaign, the impact it has had on international students and the positive UK policy changes it has helped to facilitate.
#WeAreInternational grew organically from the University of Sheffield and developed into a campaign that others can pick up and use freely when offering a warm welcome or advocating for the rights of international students.
Professor Koen Lamberts
President and Vice-Chancellor at the University of Sheffield and Chair of the UKCISA Board
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) and the University of Sheffield announced a new chapter in the development of the #WeAreInternational campaign in 2019.
UKCISA is now driving the award-winning campaign forward – supporting it to reach even more international students across the education sector by capturing and sharing the voices of students from universities, colleges, schools, pathway providers and study abroad programmes.
The campaign is open to all who support and welcome international students.
Speaking about how students can get involved in the campaign, Sheffield Students’ Union International Students' Officer Mengya (Sissi) Li said: "When I came to Sheffield as a postgraduate student the #WeAreInternational campaign helped me feel welcome in a brand new city right from the start, giving me the confidence to run in a competitive election and represent international students.
"Sheffield is renowned for being an inclusive and welcoming place to live, something I can attest to, so it's no surprise that #WeAreInternational, one of the most impactful international campaigns, was founded at Sheffield Students' Union.
I'm excited to see the next chapter of this campaign led by UKCISA as they open it up to more people than ever before, helping them feel at home in this country regardless of where they're from."
Supporting refugees and asylum seekers

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/globalopps/home:
Spending time abroad during your time at university is an amazing opportunity.
Whether it's a summer school, semester or year it's a great chance to explore other cultures, travel and gain experiences which will help you in your future career.
Hear from some of our student ambassadors who talk about their experiences studying abroad, and why you might want to try it.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/alumni:
You are leaders.
Makers.
Educators.
Influencers.
All 300,000 of you have one thing which connects you: Sheffield.
Whether you graduated last year or decades ago, we're here to help you stay connected - to the city, to your University, and to your worldwide network of other Sheffield Alumni.
The Alumni Relations team is here to help you stay connected with your university.
If you have any questions, don't hesitate to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/giving:
When you make a donation to the University of Sheffield, you join a powerful community that's shaping the world.
Sheffield's donor community is making amazing things happen.
From life-changing student support to accelerating medical breakthroughs, it wouldn't be possible without our kind supporters - read the latest stories to find out more.
Sheffield's first major fundraising campaign needs you.
Whether you care about helping students, tackling climate change or advancing medical treatments - you've got a part to play.
If you're considering making a major gift, our philanthropy team is here to support you.
Your dedicated Philanthropy Manager will guide you through this personal journey, matching gift opportunities to your interests and values to ensure you have the biggest impact possible.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/alumni/our-alumni:
Studying at Sheffield is just the start, and our graduates go on to do amazing things and have prominent careers.
We’ve collected some of their stories to see some of the people you share an alma mater with.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/alumni/volunteer:
Your chance to inspire, guide and advise the next generation.
Prioritising students from underrepresented and disadvantaged backgrounds means your time, experience, and contacts will be given to those who need them most.
You can make a profound difference to students who most need a helping hand to achieve their full potential.
Meet some of our inspiring international volunteers, and learn more about how you can get involved - no matter where in the world you are.
Discover ways to join in around the globe
Celebrating the generosity of alumni who go above and beyond to give back to their University.
Thank you for all that you do!
Alumni Volunteer of the Year Awards
You'll expand your networks, boost your skills, identify future talent, and - most importantly - inspire Sheffield students to success.
We're here to answer any questions you may have about becoming an alumni volunteer.
Email: alumnivolunteering@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/forged/home:
Transform lives through world-leading research.
Inspire success in talented students.
Fuel a new era for our city and region.
Your passions and Sheffield’s potential are set to shape the future.
Be a part of this landmark moment in Sheffield’s history.
Every talented student deserves the opportunity to reach their full potential and get the most out of their university experience.
Research is the cornerstone of progress, driving solutions to global challenges such as climate change, healthcare and the rise of AI.
Sheffield is a proud city with a rich history of industry.
A city confidently looking forward to a new era of growth, with innovation at its heart.
Want to learn more about supporting the University of Sheffield?
Email: forged@sheffield.ac.uk Call: +44 (0)114 222 5598
To receive news and updates about Forged in Sheffield, Shaping the Future , make sure your contact details are up to date.
Update your details

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/forged/get-involved:
Wherever your passions lie, you can help shape the future by supporting Sheffield today.
Have an immediate impact with a gift today.
Your generosity will power vital research and help students in financial need.
Generate profound change in an area you're passionate about with an ambitious and transformative gift.
Join the thousand-strong community already supporting Sheffield regularly.
Together, you'll make a lasting difference for students and research.
Whether you take on a sporting challenge, host a bake sale or join our community events, fundraising for a cause that's important to you is a fantastic way of supporting our work.
What do you want your legacy to be?
Remembering the University in your Will is a powerful way to support the causes you care about long into the future.
Giving your time is a powerful way to inspire the next generation.
Your network could hold the key to student success and innovative new partnerships.
If you've got a question about how you can get involved in supporting the University of Sheffield, we're here to help.
Email: forged@sheffield.ac.uk Call: +44 (0)114 222 1071

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/giving/donate/online:
Your kindness will make a life-changing difference to students and research.
Thank you for your generosity.
To ensure the security of your gift and personal details, we use Blackbaud NXT as our online payment portal.
Many universities use this to obtain gifts, and it ensures that all your information is processed correctly and kept secure.
Make your gift via our secure payment portal
Want to provide continued support to students and research?
When you start a regular gift, you'll join the Sheffield Made community and become a powerful force for change - you'll make an impact each month and learn about the difference you're making throughout the year.
Start your regular gift today
Please note: if you live outside the UK and would like to set up a recurring gift, please use the standard form and select the 'recurring gift' option.
Payroll Giving, also known as Give As You Earn (GAYE), is a simple way to make regular donations straight from your salary, without having to give any bank details.
This is another way that you can join our community of supporters and make your donations go further.
Find out how to Give As You Earn
Start your payroll gift today (UoS Staff)
Thank you for supporting the University of Sheffield - we're so grateful for your help.
Our fundraising causes
Other ways to give
Privacy policy

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/giving/causes/mnd:
The University of Sheffield has some of the best minds in the world working on MND (ALS) research.
When you make a gift you'll bring hope to people suffering from the world's cruellest disease.
A passionate supporter of MND research at Sheffield, Gemma sadly lost her battle with MND in 2023.
Helping SITraN find a cure for MND means so much to her parents Nigel and Sharon.
MND kills six people in the UK every day, with a third of those diagnosed losing their lives within just a year.
But Sheffield research is leading the way and providing new hope.
There is currently no cure for motor neuron disease.
But there is hope.
Sheffield researchers are working to make MND history.
Professor Dame Pamela Shaw has been a pioneer in MND research and has dedicated her career to understanding and treating this devastating condition.
Professor Chris McDermott and his team work closely with people with MND to develop therapies that transform the lives of patients by giving them some independence back.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/schools/home:
Our UK Student Recruitment and Access Service provide a range of activities across all age groups to encourage engagement with the journey into higher education.
Our online hub helps schools and colleges access our range of presentations and workshops, academic sessions, as well as on-demand resources.
Our Schools and Colleges Liaison team have dedicated regional UK recruitment officers who offer personalised student-focused engagement opportunities through the year.
We recognise that everyone has different circumstances that may impact their student journey.
We might be able to provide additional support to help eligible student access education at Sheffield.
We deliver a range of engaging activities on our campus, in your school and online for students, teachers and advisers.
We offer a range of widening access opportunities across all age ranges.
We work together on a number of regional and national partnerships to widen access to Higher Education.
Why do we collect data from students taking part in our activities?
Find out more
For general enquires
Email: schoolsliaison@sheffield.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 114 222 9872
Our Schools and Colleges Liaison team

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/schools/teachers-advisors:
We have created a range of presentations and workshops that we can deliver in your school or college.
Discover more
We are delighted to offer a variety of academic sessions which range from providing students with an introduction to subject areas, an insight into lectures here Sheffield, right through to interactive activities to inspire students to consider their options.
Explore further
Here you will find relevant resources you may find useful in your role as a teacher or advisor.
The Student Recruitment team at The University of Sheffield have dedicated regional officers who offer a number of presentations and workshops that can be delivered at your school/college, online or during a campus visit.
Meet the recruitment team
If you have specific questions, please don't hesitate to get in touch with our team directly.
If you would like to find out more about the support we can offer your school or college, please sign up to our mailing list by completing this online form .
We will send you details on taster sessions, virtual events and more.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/schools/activities:
Our dedicated team can work with you to deliver a range of engaging activities virtually, on our campus and in your school, to help students make the best decisions for them regarding higher education.
We bring university to you with presentations and workshops delivered at your school or college.
Experience academic sessions introducing different subjects, university-style lectures, and essential skills workshops to prepare you for higher education.
Experience university life through our on-campus events.
Visit during open days to explore facilities and the campus atmosphere.
Join subject taster sessions in our actual teaching spaces to discover what studying specific subjects at university really feels like.
Be the first to know about activities at the university as well as support that we can provide to you and your students.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/schools/programmes:
For students who meet our widening access criteria, we offer a wide range of opportunities so that they can explore the University of Sheffield and their options around higher education.
Our Access to Sheffield Summer School is right for you if you want to prepare for university life and develop valuable transferable skills, but may not know what subject you want to study.
If you know what you’re interested in studying, our Sutton Trust Summer School gives you an in-depth insight into your subject, through one of our academic strands.
Email accesstosheffield@sheffield.ac.uk or call 0114 222 1027
Programme specific contacts
Study at Sheffield
We’re proud that our widening access programmes have been accredited by Skills Builder for demonstrating best practice in building essential skills.
We provide opportunities for students to practise and demonstrate essential skills, to develop their academic confidence and self-efficacy.
Through participation, students reflect on their own skill set and the importance of skills for success, in order to support their personal development and progression to higher education.
Find out more about Skills Builder .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/schools/partnerships:
We work with a range of partners: students, teachers, education leaders and managers, adult learners, families and supporters, charities, community organisations and employers.
The Brilliant Club runs two core programmes - The Scholars Programme and Researchers in Schools which we partner on.
Realising Opportunities is a unique collaboration of leading research intensive universities of which we have been partners since 2013.
Sutton Trust Summer Schools give students the chance to experience university life.
The Elephant Group was formed in 2018 by a group of head teachers committed to increasing access to the top third universities for the top third students in UK state schools and colleges.
HEPP is an initiative jointly funded by the University of Sheffield and Sheffield Hallam University which provides impartial information and advice on Higher Education and higher level skills.
Partnerships contact information

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/global/contact:
Up-to-date contact information for the Global Engagement team.
Contact the Department Support team: geadmin@sheffield.ac.uk
Contact the Marketing and Communications Team: gemarketing@sheffield.ac.uk
Contact the International Recruitment team: international@sheffield.ac.uk
Faculty Liaison (Health and Engineering)
Africa and Middle East
Faculty Liaison (Social Sciences)
East Asia
Faculty Liaison (Science)
South Asia and South East Asia
Faculty Liaison for Arts & Humanities and NCUK contact
Americas and Europe
Partnerships Team
Contact the Partnerships team: internationalpartnerships@sheffield.ac.uk
The Global Opportunities team undertakes hybrid working, so if you have a question, the best way to contact us is by email - globalopps@sheffield.ac.uk
Telephone enquiries: +44(0)114 215 7625
If your call goes unanswered please leave a voicemail and we will try to return your call as soon as possible.
Global Engagement University of Sheffield The Arts Tower Western Bank Sheffield S10 2TN

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/schools/contact:
For general enquiries, you can contact our Schools and Colleges Liaison Team on the details below.
Address:
The Arts Tower Western Bank Sheffield S10 2TN
Meet the Schools and Colleges Liaison team
If your enquiry is relating to Access Sheffield, contact the Access Service .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/cafesandbars/home:
We bring you tasty and nutritious food and drink across campus and at the residences, sourced in an ethical and sustainable way.
We have a wide range of food & drink offers available all across campus.
From our Mexican inspired Grill & Go burritos, to our classic Uni Arms pub grub, you're sure to find something you'll love.
Find out about our range of food and drink venues, found all across the university campus and residences
We are committed to high standards of ethical and environmental practices.
We use our power of procurement to support the local economy and to minimise supply chains.
Backed by the University, we can positively impact the communities where we source our products.
There's somewhere to eat wherever you live; Allen Court is just over the road from The Diamond Kitchen, The Edge Bar is at the heart of Ranmoor & Endcliffe, Solly Street Kitchen is round the corner from St Vincent's Place and Mappin Court is next door to Heartspace Cafe.
Our venues opening times change throughout the year, keep up to date with the latest updates here.
Love our outlets but want something more suited to an event you have in mind?
Check out our range of restaurants, event spaces and hotels below.
There's something for everybody!
Our WithUS venues
Sign up to our mailing list to find out about our latest news, offers and more from our campus cafes, hotels, restaurant and other services.
Sign up here
Want to keep up to date with the latest deals at our outlets?
Follow our social media to find out more.
Follow us on Instagram

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/about/home:
At Sheffield, we make an impact.
Our ideas and expertise make a real difference to communities, policy, our partners and wider society.
The results demonstrate our research and impact excellence across a broad range of disciplines and confirm that our research is having a significant positive impact on lives across the globe.
We're tackling social, environmental and economic challenges through ambitious thinking, collaborative working and world-leading research.
We have been awarded five Queen's Anniversary Prizes, an award given to recognise outstanding contributions to the nation.
Our alumni include Lee Child, Jessica Ennis-Hill and Hilary Mantel.
The University is an independent corporation whose legal status derives from a Royal Charter granted in 1905.
Our governance structure
Turning our ambitions into reality starts with a plan.
Discover where we are and where we want to be.
Our plan
We're working with partners to bring cultural vibrancy and a prosperous economy to South Yorkshire.
Helping shape the region

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/news:
The latest from the University of Sheffield.
Use the search above to search University news stories.
Browse the University news page for stories since October 2020
Get in touch with the University of Sheffield Media Team.
Media Team contact details
Information for journalists and filming policy
Sign up for our Sheffield Briefing email to keep up to date with the latest news from the University, our plans and ambitions for the future and work with us together to make an impact locally, nationally, and across the globe.
Current staff and students can access the University's media toolkit.
Access the toolkit

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/whatson/home:
The University of Sheffield hosts a large number of events throughout the year, such as high profile lectures, concerts, open days, art exhibitions and more.
Welcome to the University of Sheffield Player - a brand new, unique platform showcasing University of Sheffield research, events and festivals through film, podcasts and digital exhibition

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/jobs/home:
Their diverse backgrounds, abilities and beliefs make Sheffield a world-class university.
Search and apply for a job at the University.
Includes all roles available after 16 December 2024.
Search and apply for jobs
If you applied for a job at the University before 9 December 2024, you can track the progress of your application.
Sign in to access applications made prior to 9 December 2024
We're one of the UK's leading universities, with an international reputation for excellence.
Find out what some of our existing staff say about the University of Sheffield as a place to work.
Staff profiles
The University of Sheffield is committed to safeguarding and promoting the welfare of our staff and students.
Applicants will be subject to relevant safeguarding checks in line with the requirements of each role and the guidance from the Department for Education.
Safer Recruitment
Find out more about the University, your new school or department, the initiatives available to staff and much more.
Prepare for your new role

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/our-education/home:
The needs and interests of our students are at the heart of everything we do at the University of Sheffield.
This includes our teaching, assessment and feedback, our campus experience, our virtual learning environment, the student support we offer, and our approach to employability.
We continuously adapt our teaching and curricula to meet student needs, ensuring a dynamic and impactful student experience.
Find out how the University commits to providing an equitable and supportive learning experience for all students.
As staff and students we are all engaged in a common pursuit of learning and knowledge creation.
All our students gain opportunities to develop skills, attributes and career awareness through their course.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sustainability/home:
The University of Sheffield is committed to tackling the global climate emergency
We're continually working to improve the sustainability of our campus and operations.
Join Jade, one of our human geography students, on a sustainability-focused tour of our campus.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/inclusion/home:
We know that to be a world-class university we must be truly inclusive.
We are proud of our diverse community and are committed to working together to create a fully inclusive environment that promotes growth and development.
Highlighting the importance of diversity of thinking with three stories from colleagues who identify as being neurodiverse.
Celebrating the achievements of our staff, students and alumni who are Black, Asian and from other ethnic minority backgrounds.
A University-wide initiative recognising the inspiring women in our University community and sharing their stories.
Explore the support, events and activities for LGBT+ students, as well as tailored information and guidance.
Student LGBT+ life
Find tailored information, resources, and guidance to help you make the most of your time at university.
Information for BAME students
Disabled applicants and students (including those undertaking postgraduate research) can access support, guidance and information from our specialist and experienced team.
Find out more about the support available
Guidance for staff supporting disabled or dyslexic students
At Sheffield, our staff groups and communities are run by staff for staff and play a vital role in shaping the University’s approach to diversity and inclusion.
Explore our staff networks
Our Race Equality Action Plan sets out the priorities and activities the University will undertake to improve our race equality.
Find out about our approach to race equality
We're committed to enhancing the experiences of our disabled staff and students so that all are fully supported.
Read more about how we're building a supportive culture
Our Action Plan outlines how we're progressing gender equality and our current priorities
Learn more about our priorities and updated action plan
Our LGBT+ action plan outlines our approach to building an inclusive environment for our LGBT+ staff and students.
Read how we're progressing LGBT+ inclusion
We're committed to supporting positive health and wellbeing for our staff and students and that they can access the support they need.
Learn about our approach to supporting mental health
We've set out how we will build an inclusive environment for all whose religion, belief or non-belief is an important part of their identity.
Read our action plan and upcoming priorities
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Annual Report celebrates our successes over the last 12 months and identifies areas where we need to renew our efforts.
Explore the Annual Report

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/about/supporting-sanctuary:
We are committed to supporting students and staff who are fleeing war and persecution.
We have a range of scholarships, schemes and support available and we welcome those seeking sanctuary to join our Sheffield community.
The University offers five Sanctuary Scholarships for students who are experiencing forced migration due to war or persecution.
The University’s Lifelong Learning team offers the Discover Course for adults over 21 who haven’t been to university but are interested in accessing higher education in the UK.
Individuals receiving support from ASSIST Sheffield get free access to University sports facilities by presenting their ASSIST photo card at each venue reception.
Refugee and asylum seekers can access the University's Western Bank Library for free
The University offers a range of wellbeing, financial and practical support for students who have been affected by war and persecution in their home country.
SSiD Support Hub (student login required)
The University has a number of resources available for current staff who are affected by the war in Ukraine or have been forced to migrate to the UK for other reasons.
Health and Wellbeing (staff login required)
The University of Sheffield has been named a ‘University of Sanctuary’ in recognition of its support for displaced people.
Concrete rubble left behind by war could be recycled and used to help rebuild key infrastructure quicker and more sustainably, according to new research from the University of Sheffield.
Teenagers who have fled war or persecution in their home country are taking part in a new training programme, launched by the University of Sheffield, to help them become future community leaders.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/home:
This is our vision.
We will deliver life-enhancing research, innovation and education that not only transforms the lives of our graduates, but shapes the world we live in.
We believe the best way to achieve this is by fostering an ambitious, inclusive, collaborative community.
Download University vision/strategic plan PDF (4.1MB)
View video transcript
We are, and will always be, guided by our values of ambition, excellence, collaboration, inclusivity, responsibility and transparency.
Our values
At the University of Sheffield, we’re proud of the difference we've made and continue to make.
But we’ll never stop exploring new ways to do more.
Our story
Our key performance indicators and targets span the pillars of the vision.
These indicators inform target setting across the University.
Our key performance indicators
Our transformative research and enterprise will find solutions to problems facing society.
We will enable and promote a culture of excellence in innovation and entrepreneurship across the University.
Our teachers will deliver research-led programmes that inspire, enthuse and challenge a diverse community of outstanding students.
Our graduates will be equipped to stand out as confident global citizens guided by strong values, ethics and standards – able to make meaningful contributions to society.
We will build a diverse community of staff and students from a broad range of backgrounds, demographics and cultures, to create an inclusive, supportive and collaborative environment in which they can succeed and flourish.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/govern:
It is an exempt charity regulated by the Office for Students.
Explore how the University is governed and how it is managed.
The President and Vice-Chancellor is the Chief Executive and Accountable Officer.
Our University Executive Board provides leadership and management, and collectively advises the President and Vice-Chancellor.
Our Professional Services teams help deliver the University strategy.
President and Vice-Chancellor
University Executive Board
Professional Services
Faculties
The Council is the governing body, responsible for setting future direction and monitoring progress.
The University Secretary's Office supports good governance and compliance with legal and regulatory obligations.
University Council
Governance structure
Governance documents
University Secretary's Office
Policies and guidance on our information compliance, records management and archives.
GDPR and Data Protection
Privacy Notices
Guidelines for Employees
View the terms of reference for our Council, Senate, the University Executive Board, and their committees.
University Committees
The University of Sheffield was established by Royal Charter in 1905.
In common with many other universities, it is an exempt charity.
Read more about the University's charitable status

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/about/rankings:
We're a world top-100 university and a member of the Russell Group of leading UK research universities.
Our outstanding performance for excellent teaching and research, as part of a genuinely global community, is consistently confirmed by international independent assessments.
98th in the world and 12th in the UK Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025
Times Higher Education World University Rankings
We are proud to be recognised as one of the top 100 universities in the world .
We've been voted University of the Year , Best Students' Union and Best for Student Life at the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2024.
Made up of around 35,000 university reviews, the awards are the only annual university accolades based on student views.
University of the Year
Study with us - ranking, reputation and history
The most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF) results in 2021 demonstrate our research and impact excellence across a broad range of disciplines and confirm that our research is having a significant positive impact on lives across the globe.
Research Excellence Framework 2021
The University is one of the 24 universities that make up the Russell Group.
Members of this group are committed to maintaining the very best research , an outstanding teaching and learning experience and unrivalled links with business and the public sector.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework, 92 per cent of our research and impact was assessed as world-leading or internationally excellent.
Russell Group
Queen's Anniversary Prizes

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/about/world-top-100:
Based on rigorous assessments of academic excellence and global impact, our rankings performance reflects the strength of our research and teaching, and the esteem in which we are held by academics and employers worldwide.
QS World University Rankings 2026
Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings 2025
Our campus is a vibrant, inclusive and truly global environment.
More than 28,000 students from over 150 countries choose to study here.
More than 1,500 members of our staff are international.
Our place among the world’s top 100 universities reflects the transformative power of our research.
We collaborate with major multinational businesses, international organisations, global charities, and governments to tackle the world’s most urgent challenges.
Employers across the world recognise Sheffield graduates for their skills, adaptability, and global outlook - a key driver behind our international reputation and top‑100 ranking.
International students
Our rankings
Sheffield has reclaimed its position within the QS world top 100 universities

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/departments:
Discover more about the departments and services within the University of Sheffield.
Find information, news and resources for each of our academic schools.
You can browse for one using our A-Z list.
Professional services provide valuable support to staff, students, alumni, partners and friends of the University.
The University of Sheffield is comprised of five faculties.
Our world-class AMRC is leading the way in manufacturing innovation, with members such as Boeing, Rolls-Royce and McLaren.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/departments/academic:
If you cannot find what you are looking for, use the search facility at the top of the page.
You may also find the list of research centres and facilities useful.
Accounting and Financial Management – see Management School Aerospace Engineering – see School of Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery, School of Animal and Plant Sciences – see Biosciences Archaeology - see School of History, Philosophy and Digital Humanities Architecture and Landscape, School of Artificial Intelligence – see Computer Science Arts and Humanities, Faculty of Automatic Control and Systems Engineering – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering Autonomous Systems – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Biochemistry – see Biosciences Bioengineering – see School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering Biology – see Biosciences Biomedical Engineering – see School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering Biomedical Science – see Biosciences Biosciences Built Environment – see School of Architecture and Landscape
Cancer Studies – see Department of Oncology and Metabolism Catalan – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Cell Biology – see Biosciences Chemical and Biological Engineering (CBE) – see School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering, School of Chemistry  - see School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences Chinese – see see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Civil and Structural Engineering – see School of Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering Clinical Dentistry, School of Clinical Psychiatry – see The Medical School Clinical Psychology Unit Computer Science Computer Systems – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering Control Systems – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering Criminology – see Law Czech – see see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
Dentistry, School of Clinical Dutch – see see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
East Asian Studies, School of (SEAS) – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Ecology – see Biosciences Economics Education, School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, School of Electronic Control and Systems Engineering – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering Engineering, Faculty of Engineering Interdisciplinary Programmes Office – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering English, School of Environmental Science – see School of Geography and Planning
French and Francophone Studies – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
Genetics – see Biosciences Genomics – see Biosciences Geography – see School of Geography and Planning German – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
Health, Faculty of Health Sciences School – see School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery Hispanic – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies History, Philosophy and Digital Humanities, school of Human Communication Sciences – see School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery
Information – see School of Information, Journalism and Communication International Relations – see School of Sociological Studies, Politics and International Relations Italian – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
Japanese – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Journalism – see School of Information, Journalism and Communication
Korean – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
Landscape Architecture – see School of Architecture and Landscape Languages and Cultures, School of (SLC) – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Law Lifelong Learning – see School of Education Linguistics – see School of English Luxembourgish – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
Management School Materials Science and Engineering – see School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering Mathematics and Statistics - see School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences Mechanical Engineering – see School of Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering, School of Mechatronics – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering Medicine and Population Health, School of Microbiology – see Biosciences Microelectronics – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering Modern Languages and Cultures – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Modern Languages Teaching Centre (MLTC) – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Molecular Biology and Biotechnology – see Biosciences Music – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
Neuroscience – see School of Medicine and Population Health Nursing and Midwifery – see School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery
Ophthalmology and Orthoptics – see School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery
Pharmacology – see Biosciences Philosophy - see School of History, Philosophy and Digital Humanities Physics and Astronomy - see School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences Physiology – see Biosciences Plant Sciences – see Biosciences Politics and International Relations - see School of Sociological Studies, Politics and International Relations Population Health – see School of Medicine and Population Health Portuguese – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Psychology Pure Science, Faculty of – see Science, Faculty of
Robotics – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering Russian – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies
Science and Engineering Foundation Year (SEFY) – see School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering Science, Faculty of Sheffield Centre for Interdisciplinary Biblical Studies (SCIBS) Sheffield Methods Institute – see School of Education Social Sciences, Faculty of Sociological Studies - see School of Sociological Studies, Politics and International Relations Spanish and Latin American Studies – see School of Languages, Arts and Societies Software Engineering – see Computer Science Sorby Geology Group – see School of Geography and Planning Speech Science – see School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery Systems Engineering – see Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Town and Regional Planning – see School of Geography and Planning
Urban Studies and Planning – see School of Geography and Planning
Work Psychology, Institute of
Zoology – see Biosciences

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/departments/faculties:
Links to the University's five faculty websites.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/departments/professional-services:
A list of the University's professional services departments.
You can also find out more about the professional services leadership team on their individual profiles.
Academic Programmes Office Accommodation and Commercial Services Accommodation Services Admissions Service Alumni Relations - see Campaigns and Alumni Relations Appeals and complaints procedures Audio Visual Services
Campaigns and Alumni Relations Careers and Employability Service Ceremonies Office - see Corporate Events Chaplaincy City, Culture and Public Engagement Cleaning Services - see Facilities Management Community Relations Complaints and appeals procedures Conferencing - see WithUS Corporate Communications - see Marketing, Admissions, Recruitment and Communications (MARC) Counselling Services - see Student and Academic Services
Data protection Disability and Dyslexia Support Service Drama Studio - see Performance Venues
Energy and Environment – see Sustainability at Sheffield English Language Teaching Centre Estates and Facilities Management Events - see What's on Events team - see Corporate Events Exchanges - see Global Opportunities and Exchanges
Finance and Commercial Freedom of information
Global Engagement Global Opportunities and Exchanges Governance and Management Green Impact – see Sustainability at Sheffield
Hospitality - see WithUS Human Resources Health and safety Health Service - see University Health Service
Information Commons Internal Communications - see Marketing, Admissions, Recruitment and Communications (MARC) International Exchanges Unit - see Global Opportunities and Exchanges International Office International Partnerships IT Services
Library - see University Library
Marketing - see Marketing, Admissions, Recruitment and Communications (MARC) Marketing, Admissions, Recruitment and Communications (MARC) Media and Public Relations Team
National Technician Development Centre for Higher Education News Nursery
Outreach - see Schools and colleges
Parking Services Partnerships and Regional Engagement - see Research, Partnerships and Innovation Performance Venues Planning, Projects and Business Intelligence - see Strategic Planning and Change President and Vice-Chancellor Print and Creative Services Procurement Professional Services Property Services – see Estates and Facilities Management Public Engagement Public events - see What's on Public relations - see Media and Public Relations Team
Recruitment - see Marketing, Admissions, Recruitment and Communications (MARC) Registrar - see University Secretary's Office Regional Engagement Registration and tuition fees Research, Partnerships and Innovation Room Bookings
Safety Services - see Health and Safety Security Services Sheffield International - see A global university and International Partnerships Sport and Physical Activity Strategic Planning and Change Strategy and Governance - see University Secretary's Office Student Administration and Academic Affairs Student and Academic Services Student Appeals, Complaints and Conduct - see Complaints and Appeals Procedures Student Health, Wellbeing and Support Student Recruitment, Marketing and Admissions - see Marketing, Admissions, Recruitment and Communications (MARC) Student Registry - see also Student and Academic Services Student Services Information Desk (SSiD) - see also Student and Academic Services Sustainability at Sheffield
Transport Services
University Executive Board (UEB) University Health Service University Library University Secretary's Office
Vice-Chancellor - see President and Vice-Chancellor Visitors, Information for
What's on WithUS

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/registration/home:
Welcome to registration at the University of Sheffield.
A step-by-step outline of everything you need to do in order to complete your registration at the University as a home student.
Registration for new home students
A step-by-step outline of everything you need to do in order to complete your registration at the University as a new international student.
Registration for new international students
If you're a continuing student, visit the Student hub for everything you need to know about registering for the new academic year (student login required).
What to do if you have to arrive at University after the official registration period has ended on 29 September 2025 .
Late registration
Information on the different registration statuses you might have, and what actions you need to take to become fully registered with the University.
What your registration status means
Essential information for continuing students on choosing your modules for the next academic session.
Module choice (student login required)
The deadline for being in Sheffield and registered as a student is 20 October 2025, but some courses have earlier deadlines.
Check if your course has an earlier start date
Guidance for if you’re registering outside of the main September registration period (eg if you're a PGR, Study Abroad or Exchange student, or on a CPD course).
Registration at other times of the year
Information about tuition fees for new students.
This gives information on modules offered by different departments across the University.
Directory of modules
A comprehensive timetable of when and where each unit of study will take place.
Teaching timetables (student login required)
View the structure of your course of study.
Programme regulations
Read the University's Registration declaration.
Registration declaration

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/about/uni-year:
Sheffield has been voted University of the Year, Best Students' Union and Best for Student Life at the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2024.
We're delighted to have been voted University of the Year by the people that matter most: our students.
The Whatuni Student Choice Awards are informed by more than 39,000 student reviews.
Here's what some of our students said about us.
Student life at the uni of Sheffield is great, along with the SU!
I would not change my experience for anything.
Charlotte
It’s an amazing uni and I feel like Sheffield is home to me.
Trusha
The people are so nice, there’s always stuff going on and I feel very heard and valued.
Jemima
Read more student reviews
Our SU is central to our student experience.
Home to over 350 student-led societies, it offers first rate entertainment and is dedicated to representing and supporting Sheffield students.
“Thank you so much to all of our students who chose to get involved and review us.
As a Students’ Union, we strive to ensure that our students feel represented, empowered, and have the best possible time at University.
Every year we provide thousands of opportunities for students to positively shape their future and have fun.
It’s wonderful to read the reviews in this year’s awards and understand just how important these opportunities are to our student community.”
Lily Byrne, President of the University of Sheffield's Students' Union
Explore our courses
See why our SU is the best in the UK
Explore our guide to Sheffield

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/power-language-apps-multilingual-world:
Although only 36% of UK adults speak more than one language, Dr González-Fernández's research offers a promising solution, suggesting that language-learning apps aren't just alternatives to traditional methods but powerful complementary tools that can significantly enhance teaching and learning.
Mastering a second language is a critical skill in today’s globalised and multilingual world, yet current estimates predict that only around 36% of UK adults can speak more than one language.
While traditional teaching methods are useful, language acquisition is a long-term process that isn't always sustained through the education system or by individual learners.
However, new research suggests that modern computer or mobile assisted language learning apps can enhance this process, offering an additional way for people to continue their studies.
In recent years, language-learning apps like Duolingo have risen in popularity across the world, but their usefulness in promoting second language development remains largely unknown.
Addressing this gap in understanding, and finding better ways to support second language learning and teaching challenges, is long overdue.
Senior Lecturer in Applied Linguistics and TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) Dr Beatriz González-Fernández from the School of English at the University of Sheffield has been exploring the effectiveness of app-based language learning compared with traditional classroom instruction.
Her research focuses on the acquisition and teaching of general language proficiency and vocabulary knowledge in second and foreign languages.
Through her studies, we now know that apps are not just promising alternatives for accessing language learning, but also powerful complementary tools that can significantly support both teachers and learners.
But how are these findings challenging damaging misconceptions about app-based language learning and improving teaching practices?
In 2022, Dr González-Fernández was awarded an international grant competition by American language learning company, Duolingo, to research the effectiveness of the platform.
Duolingo has over 500 million registered users and around 40 million monthly active users, making it the most downloaded education app worldwide.
The participants involved in Dr González-Fernández’s study were 337 adult Spanish speakers learning English at a basic proficiency level in an app-based (221 learners) and classroom instruction (116 learners) setting.
Challenging general views, the study found that app-based learning can outperform classroom instruction in effectiveness and efficiency across some language aspects, and that app-based learners generally reported higher levels of interest and motivation for the course.
Dr González-Fernández’s research also revealed that learners using Duolingo outperformed classroom-based learners in receptive grammar and vocabulary knowledge, while learners in traditional classroom instruction did better in developing listening skills.
This suggests that instead of treating apps as substitute instructional methods, we should better consider and employ them as complements to traditional second language learning classroom teaching.
“Duolingo was actually in some aspects of language learning more effective than classroom instruction overall, which was not expected.
As well as linguistic development, I also examined the learner's motivational development in these two settings.
I found that the Duolingo learners were more motivated in general than classroom learners and sustained this motivation throughout the study.
I think this could be down to the personalisation of content offered by apps, and all those gamified features like experience points, leader boards, and competing with friends.
Although learner’s individual preference for app-based and classroom instruction plays an important role” explains Dr González-Fernández.
Following the 16-week study period, Dr González-Fernández investigated learners' longer term uses and perceptions of the Duolingo app.
This data was divided into themes such as habit formation, linguistic awareness, confidence, and change of perspectives.
“In terms of direct impact to learners’, we saw improvements across all of the themes we investigated.
For example, many reported a higher transition from passive to active learning, providing evidence of long-term behavioural change and deeper engagement with global linguistic acquisition and cultural contexts” adds Dr González-Fernández.
Dr González-Fernández presented her findings to company employees at Duolingo HQ in May 2024.
Post-keynote survey data was collected where attendees reflected on the usefulness of the project findings for their job at Duolingo, and the potential impact on their work.
All respondents agreed that the findings were beneficial for the development of Duolingo and could improve the language courses overall.
They also concurred that specific areas for improvement could be identified in light of the findings, and that the results made them think about potential improvements to the app.
“Duolingo is interested in two types of impact - external and internal.
External impact involves establishing credibility from the work Duolingo is doing, letting people know about the work and research being done with the platform, and its quality” explains Dr González-Fernández.
“Internal impact involves information that highlights areas for improvement.
Duolingo claimed that my study had significant external impact, including various public reports, academic journal articles, presentations for staff at the company and presentations for international English teachers.
My research has also had internal impact insofar that it showed confirmation of the effectiveness of the platform, and identified an area where improvements would be needed, namely the listening provision” explains Dr González-Fernández.
“Based on evidence from my study (as well as other internal studies) that listening provision could be improved, Duolingo have invested significant funding in improving this area of their courses.
Some of the new features included to support the development of listening skills are: Duolingo radio sessions, listening episodes, mini podcasts, and more recently an interactive video call with AI Lily.
They have some initial evidence that these improvements have helped learners' listening development.
My research supported these changes and improvements by identifying issues, their extent, and the need for improvements to those areas in the language course, as well as specifying potential solutions” adds Dr González-Fernández.
Many teachers often dismiss language-learning apps as ineffective for overall language development, sometimes even viewing them as competitors rather than valuable supplementary tools.
According to Dr González-Fernández, these misconceptions prevent teachers and material developers from fully exploiting the potential of what these apps offer.
As a result, they also miss opportunities to connect language learning with students' interests and new developments.
This scepticism among language teachers and scholars often stems from a lack of clear understanding regarding the extent of apps' effectiveness and how they truly compare to other language learning and teaching methods.
Earlier this year, Dr González-Fernández published an article in the Modern English Teacher (MET) magazine with recommendations for improved teaching practice based on her findings.
MET is a magazine written by teachers for teachers that brings methodology, practical ideas and topical discussions to classrooms across the world.
Based on previous contributions to this magazine, the recommendations provided in the article are expected to impact some teachers’ attitudes towards the possibilities of apps for language learning as well as their teaching practice.
As well as the publication in MET, in March 2025, Dr González-Fernández delivered a workshop based on her work with Duolingo to English language professionals at the TESOL Convention in the US.
The TESOL Convention is a teacher-centred forum organised by the TESOL International Association, the most trusted and largest body worldwide dedicated to English language teaching.
“Before I started the workshop, I asked the attendee teachers to anonymously evaluate how effective they considered language learning apps to be.
The vast majority of them reported rather negative views of language learning applications’ effectiveness for language development.
At the end of my workshop, I gave the attendees a questionnaire to record its impact, and most of them reported that the study had challenged their perspectives on language learning apps and that they were willing to implement changes to their teaching practice based on my findings” explains Dr González-Fernández.
100% of participants reported a challenged view on the effectiveness of language learning apps and an improved understanding of their usefulness.
Consequently, the participants now felt better equipped to integrate the findings and implications into their language teaching or learning practices, specifically gaining a clearer awareness of how to effectively use apps to support and complement their methods, as well as identifying concrete improvements for their approach.
Dr Beatriz González-Fernández
Senior Lecturer in Applied Linguistics and TESOL
“Through offering practical recommendations and models for the use of apps in their teaching practice, we were able to change attendees’ perceptions of the efficacy of language learning apps, and offer a better understanding of how to use them to support and complement their teaching practice.
Three teachers also contacted me after the workshop and stated that they were going to implement my recommendations for integrating language learning apps into their teaching practice, and I will be in touch with them shortly to evaluate the effectiveness of their new practice” adds Dr González-Fernández.
Dr González-Fernández is now expanding her research and its impact to benefit a wider range of second-language organisations, languages, and learners.
She is doing this by leading national and international outreach and training workshops for teachers and students at traditional language teaching institutes.
Additionally, she's broadening the findings from her original work with Duolingo to other languages by collaborating with modern language organisations, and she's applying her language-learning approach to new, diverse learner groups, such as refugees and asylum seekers, by partnering with language education organisations like NGOs and charities.
Second/foreign language vocabulary acquisition, development, teaching and testing.
Written by Anna Blagg (Research Marketing and Communications Coordinator)
For further information please contact: mediateam@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/news/new-scanner-collaboration-boost-sheffields-world-leading-neuroscience-research-and-transform-patient:
A new cutting-edge total-body PET scanner is set to transform how a range of diseases are diagnosed and treated.
Scientists from the University of Sheffield will play a central role in the new UK-wide medical imaging platform, strengthening the institution’s world-class medical research that will bring benefits to patients across Yorkshire and the north of England.
The University of Sheffield, together with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, is a key partner in the ANGLIA network, which will host a new £5.5m total-body PET scanner in Cambridge.
This collaboration will make the UK’s first-of-its-kind national PET imaging platform.
The new scanner, funded by the UKRI Medical Research Council (MRC), will be part of the National PET Imaging Platform (NPIP) for drug discovery and clinical research.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a powerful technology that images living tissues and organs at a molecular level, helping to investigate how diseases arise and progress.
Unlike current technology, the new total-body PET scanner is more sensitive and can achieve a full-body scan in a single session, exposing patients to considerably lower doses of radiation.
This means more patients, including children, can participate in clinical research and trials.
Central to ANGLIA’s geographical reach and scientific programme is the University of Sheffield’s close links with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, the Northern BRC Operations Network, and the Northern Health Science Alliance, making this new technology accessible to the region.
The collaboration will particularly benefit research at the University of Sheffield’s Institute of Translational Neuroscience (SITran).
SITran is world-leading in its investigation of neurodegenerative disorders like motor neuron disease (MND), dementia, Parkinson’s and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and has a strong track record of over 20 ongoing clinical trials, many in collaboration with Cambridge and UCL.
Imaging scientists from Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, who are experienced in PET imaging, will also play a crucial role in the Network, and further complement the existing collaboration between the University of Sheffield and Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust in this area.
Li Su, Professor of Neuroimaging at the University of Sheffield , said: “Being one of the founding institutes of ANGLIA will boost the existing PET imaging research programs in Sheffield.
“Through collaboration with ANGLIA and Cambridge, where significant radiochemistry investment is planned, we would also be accessing more novel PET radiotracers, which is a major area that different institutes can work on together.”
The scanner, supplied by Siemens Healthineers, will be the focus of the ANGLIA network, which includes three universities—the University of Sheffield, University of Cambridge and UCL —each paired with local NHS trusts.
Franklin Aigbirhio, Professor of Molecular Imaging Chemistry at the University of Cambridge, will lead the ANGLIA network.
He said: “This is an exciting new technology that will transform our ability to answer important questions about how diseases arise and to search for and develop new treatments that will ultimately benefit not just our patients, but those across the UK and beyond.
It will also help us diagnose and treat diseases at an even earlier stage, particularly in children.”
The scanner will be located at Addenbrooke’s Hospital in Cambridge and is anticipated to be installed by autumn 2026.
The network, supported by UKRI, also includes partnerships with biotech company Altos Labs, pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, and Alliance Medical.
The collaboration will also focus on enhancing training and research capacity, with a dedicated fellowship scheme to increase the representation of researchers from Black and other minority ethnic backgrounds in medical imaging.
The National PET Imaging Platform (NPIP) is funded by UKRI’s Infrastructure Fund and delivered by a partnership between Medicines Discovery Catapult, MRC, and Innovate UK.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/news/south-yorkshire-host-landmark-national-summit-drive-clean-energy-superpower-ambition:
The free-to-attend UK Clean Energy Summit 2025 , hosted by the University of Sheffield and its Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC), will be held at the Magna Science Adventure Centre in Rotherham, South Yorkshire, on 11 and 12 September.
As the UK government advances its mission to make energy cheap, clean and secure, the summit will focus on accelerating the journey to net-zero while stimulating economic growth, creating high-value jobs and attracting significant investment.
The conference and exhibition will explore the role of research and development, industry innovation and effective government policy in achieving the UK’s clean energy goals.
Speakers at the summit include:
Professor Koen Lamberts, Vice-Chancellor at the University of Sheffield who will be speaking at the event, said : “This national summit will address some of the most pressing questions facing the UK right now: how do we capitalise on the economic dividend of clean energy, how does the transition create real jobs and investment and how can we all unlock genuine growth and achieve ongoing sustainability?
“We are committed to working in lockstep with our many partners, harnessing our world-leading clean energy research and innovation to answer these critical questions as we advance our shared ambition of becoming a global clean energy superpower.”
The choice of Magna as the summit venue is particularly symbolic.
This unique events space, set within a former industrial steelworks, is located near the M1 in the heart of South Yorkshire - a region boasting the UK's largest clean-tech cluster.
The summit will showcase the latest advancements from both industry and academia across a diverse clean energy landscape, including:
Professor Ben Morgan, interim Chief Executive Officer at the AMRC, also a speaker at the event, said: “The UK Clean Energy Summit 2025 is more than a conference; it’s a powerful convening of minds dedicated to turning the nation’s net zero ambition into a reality.
“At the AMRC, we're already putting our manufacturing expertise to work on clean technologies like SMRs, hydrogen and sustainable aviation fuels to build a safe, secure and clean energy future for all.
But to truly accelerate this transition, collaboration is key.
“The summit will bring together brilliant people from industry, policy and academia to focus on the massive opportunity that the clean energy transition presents for the UK to prosper – drive economic growth, create high-value jobs and collectively shape our clean energy future.”
Attendees can expect a programme featuring keynote speeches from political and industry leaders and panel discussions.
These sessions will delve into the major challenges and opportunities for unlocking substantial growth and ensuring long-term sustainability within the clean energy sector.
A significant focus will also be placed on the vital role that UK regions, particularly those in the North, can play in driving the clean energy transition.
The summit will provide ample opportunities for networking among delegates, culminating in a special dinner featuring a soon to be announced high-profile speaker.
The UK Clean Energy Summit is hosted by the University of Sheffield and its Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC) .
The University is renowned for its world-leading clean energy research and development , collaborating closely with industry partners to build a greener future, create jobs and drive economic growth.
The event is further supported by the South Yorkshire Mayoral Combined Authority and the High Value Manufacturing Catapult, underscoring a strong shared commitment to regional and national progress in clean energy.
Book now: https://cleanenergysummit2025.uk/
UK Clean Energy Summit 2025
Browse upcoming public lectures, exhibitions, family events, concerts, shows and festivals across the University.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/news/shelf-festival-words-announces-lineup-its-34th-edition:
Off the Shelf Festival of Words, one of the longest running literary festivals in the UK, will return to Sheffield for its 34th edition from 10 October - 10 November, bringing together the best of local, national and international literary talent for the 2025 programme of events.
Delivered by the University of Sheffield , this year’s programme promises to be as dynamic and eclectic as ever and will play host to over 60 live and online events across the city, including household names such as Olivier award winning actress Alison Steadman (Abigail's Party, Gavin and Stacey, Pride and Prejudice, Fat Friends ), comedian and Sheffield native Graham Fellows (best known as John Shuttleworth) former ITN news presenter John Suchet , historian Lucy Worsley will be discussing Derbyshire’s Bolsover Castle and TV and West End theatre actor, Nigel Planer ( Young Ones , Shine on Harvey Moon , The Comic Strip Presents, Evita ) will talk about his new memoir.
A welcome return to the festival is in store for historian and broadcaster Tracy Borman , a specialist in the Tudor period and British monarchy.
Journalist and broadcaster Stuart Maconie will also be making a highly anticipated return.
Poet Laureate Simon Armitage and band LYR are set to take the stage for a special evening of poetry and music.
The event will begin with Armitage reading from his celebrated works and newest books, Dwell and New Cemetery .
Following this, the acclaimed trio LYR will perform.
Comprised of Armitage, singer-songwriter Richard Walters, and multi-instrumentalist Patrick J Pearson, the band has made a significant mark on the contemporary music scene with critically acclaimed albums, sold-out tours, and major festival appearances.
Audiences will get to spend an evening with one of the nation's most celebrated voices, Lemn Sissay OBE, as he brings his acclaimed book, Let the Light Pour In , to the stage.
Known for his powerful and profound work as a BAFTA-nominated author, activist, performer, and Sunday Times number one bestseller, Sissay promises to captivate audiences reading from his new poetry works.
Author Jamie Taylor 's book, Studio Electrophonique: The Sheffield space age, from The Human League to Pulp , tells the fascinating story of how Sheffield's unique "space age" sound was launched from a local mechanic's home.
Through original interviews with artists like Jarvis Cocker, Martyn Ware, and Mark White, Taylor captures the spirit of a generation that sought new musical frontiers and, in doing so, shaped the electronic sound that would define the 1980s.
Mick Herron , the award winning author celebrated for his witty and gripping Slough House series, is back with a much-anticipated new novel, Clown Town .
Herron's previous novels have topped the Sunday Times Bestseller lists and are the basis for the award-winning Apple TV series, Slow Horses .
He’ll be discussing Clown Town , a spy novel that promises all the Herron trademarks: sharp wit, biting satire, and unputdownable storytelling.
The author of the International Booker Prize-shortlisted Cursed Bunny , Bora Chung , delivers a masterful work of literary horror with her new novel, The Midnight Timetable .
Hear her discuss this bone-chilling, witty, and deeply political novel and how this has solidified Chung’s place as a master of modern horror.
Best-selling Japanese author Mizuki Tsujimura , whose books have sold over 10 million copies and have been adapted into high-profile films and manga, will be joining the festival.
Audiences will have the unique opportunity to hear her read from and discuss her new book, Lost Souls Meet Under a Full Moon .
Nearly 15 million girls are forced into marriage each year, a heartbreaking reality that Sonita Alizada knows all too well.
At just 10 years old, she was nearly sold into marriage herself.
Refusing to accept this fate, Sonita channeled her experience into her powerful rap video, "Daughters for Sale," which brought her story to global attention.
Now, Sonita shares her journey from the streets of Afghanistan to international stages as a rap artist and human rights activist, fighting for a world where every girl's voice is heard and her future is her own.
Join award-winning local writer Sunjeev Sahota in conversation with acclaimed writer and broadcaster Kenan Malik as they discuss Malik's essential book, Not So Black and White .
The book offers a historical look at the concept of race and argues that current discussions on race and culture often overshadow more pressing issues of inequality and class.
This is a unique opportunity to hear these two great minds challenge common assumptions and delve into today's heated debates on race, culture, and privilege.
The festival also includes Sheffield writer Helen Mort , Off the Shelf commissioned a poem from the award-winning poet to celebrate 250 years since the birth of Jane Austen .
The poem, A House for Jane , takes the idea of stanza-as-room to build Jane Austen a series of imaginary spaces in a conversation between past and present.
Helen will read her new poem and from her other work and discuss Austen’s legacy.
Sheffield’s own Poet Laureate Beth Davies will also be speaking at the festival, she’ll be reading some of the forty best poems of the last forty years, gathered from The North, the UK’s inspirational poetry magazine produced by Sheffield’s The Poetry Business.
Ruth McDonald , Race Equality Business Lead at Sheffield City Council will be curating a project dedicated to Black writers whose powerful words have profoundly shaped our world.
This Black History Month celebration will showcase powerful readings from work by exceptional writers and there will be daily opportunities for local voices to read work by poets, song writers, authors and rappers in Sheffield’s Winter Gardens.
Professor Vanessa Toulmin, Director of City, Culture & Public Engagement at the University of Sheffield, said: "The University of Sheffield is proud to deliver a festival with such a rich history and a stellar national and international reputation.
"Our aim is to curate a programme that not only reflects our institutional and city strengths but also appeals to a broad spectrum of tastes.
Each year, we attract ever more distinguished literary talent alongside some beloved household names, reinforcing the Festival's integral place in Sheffield and the UK's cultural calendar.
This year's exceptional lineup continues that tradition, cementing our shared ambition to contribute to Sheffield’s cultural vibrancy.
"It’s a genuine thrill to see local communities embrace and engage with the festival and this year’s programme is a true reflection of our city—diverse, vibrant and welcoming to all.
We invite everyone to join us; whether you're a lifelong book lover or new to the festival, there is something here for you.
Whether you're a seasoned ‘Off the Shelfer’ or simply curious about the written word, we can't wait for you to join us for an inspiring month to celebrate books, words, and ideas."
The full programme and tickets are available on the Off The Shelf website starting Friday 15 August at 12 noon.
Printed programmes will be available at venues throughout Sheffield.
Tickets can also be obtained in person or by telephone (0114 249 6000) from Sheffield Theatres Box Office or by visiting: www.offtheshelf.org.uk
University of Sheffield's Off the Shelf Festival of Words

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/news/breakthrough-raises-hopes-strep-vaccine-could-save-half-million-lives-globally:
New research from the University of Sheffield and the MRC Unit The Gambia at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine has, for the first time, identified the specific antibodies that may protect children from Strep A - a bacterial infection that kills around 500,000 people year globally
The study tracked children in The Gambia, and discovered that while maternal protection fades, young children rapidly develop immune responses to parts of the bacteria, highlighting crucial insights for vaccine development
These findings, published in Nature Medicine , provide vital insights for creating a safe and effective Strep A vaccine, which could save hundreds of thousands of lives, particularly in low and middle-income countries
The new research from the University of Sheffield marks a significant step towards preventing Strep A, a common bacterial infection which often causes a mild sore throat or skin infections - but can sometimes be life-threatening.
In low and middle-income countries hundreds of thousands of people die each year after contracting the infection.
This increased risk in countries such as The Gambia is often linked to heart damage resulting from repeated infections.
While deaths from Strep A are relatively uncommon in more affluent nations by comparison, it can still pose a serious risk.
For example, a deadly Strep A outbreak in the UK and Europe in late 2022 resulted in hundreds of deaths , including many children.
By tracking how children in The Gambia develop natural immunity to Strep A, the research team was able to identify the specific antibodies that are linked to protection from the potentially fatal infection.
Working in partnership with the Medical Research Council (MRC) Unit The Gambia at London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the Sheffield research team has published its findings today in Nature Medicine .
Dr Alex Keeley, a Wellcome Clinical PhD Fellow in Global Health at the MRC Unit the Gambia and the University of Sheffield’s Florey Institute of Infection, led the research.
“Our findings represent a significant step towards a safe and effective vaccine that could save around half a million lives here in the UK and around the world,” said Alex.
“Historically we have not had the understanding of how people develop natural immunity to Strep A, making the development of a potentially life-saving vaccine incredibly challenging.
“Now, for the first time in humans, we’ve been able to observe how antibodies that would be made following vaccination may be preventing infections and show how these antibodies may be working against Strep A.”
The study looked at how antibodies - our natural defenses against infection - develop in people in The Gambia from birth and throughout their lives.
It found that while infants are born with some maternal protection against Strep A, that quickly fades away.
Young children rapidly develop antibody responses to various parts of the bacteria after exposure to Strep A.
Identifying this key window for developing immunity is a critical discovery for future vaccine strategies.
“It has long been recognised that a lack of understanding of natural immunity to Strep A is a significant barrier to developing a vaccine,” Alex continued.
“Now we know how crucial the first few years of life are in developing immunity to Strep A, we can gain a much deeper understanding of how this immunity is developed.
“We hope this will lead to vaccine trials in different parts of the world to ultimately prove that vaccines can provide safe and effective protection against Strep A.”
Fatouamta Camara, a scientist from The Gambia who played a key role in delivering the study, explains the potential impacts of the team’s work : “In The Gambia, Strep A carries a devastating burden on children and adults in their prime years.
“Beyond causing illness, its impact ripples through families and communities, perpetuating cycles of poverty and reducing quality of life.
A vaccine offers hope as a powerful tool to prevent these infections, protect our communities, and improve health outcomes, enabling children and young people to thrive.”
The research project initially began as a collaboration between the Florey Institute of Infection and leading vaccine manufacturer, the GSK Vaccine Institute for Global Health (GVGH).
This gave Dr Keeley the opportunity to train in immunoassays - laboratory tests that measure antibodies and other immune responses in a sample.
He was able to then train a small team of scientists, and conducted the study at the MRC Unit The Gambia.
This  partnership led to the findings reported in the newly published Nature Medicine study.
Professor Thushan de Silva, Co-Director of the Florey Institute of Infection in Sheffield and a Principal Investigator at the MRC Unit The Gambia, supervised the research.
He said: “This study reflects the value of working across institutions to deliver high-quality and impactful research in global health.
It also highlights the importance of Wellcome Trust support for Clinical PhD programmes, which enable the next generation of scientists to train and develop in internationally collaborative environments.”
Read the study in full

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/whatson/current:
Public events take place at the University of Sheffield throughout the year.
Whether you have never attended one of our events, or you are a regular, you are always welcome to come along and join us for a true cultural feast.
Past public lectures

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/graduation/undergraduate:
These pages are for undergraduate students due to graduate in July 2026.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/giving/donate:
Thank you for choosing to support the transformational power of education and research at the University of Sheffield.
Make a gift online using your debit or credit card via our secure online payment portal, Blackbaud NXT.
Donate online now
Donors based in the UK can also set up a tax-efficient regular gift via their employer using the Government's Payroll Giving scheme.
For more information visit the GOV.UK webpage or contact us on giving@sheffield.ac.uk .
Why choose a regular gift?
If you'd like to make a transformational gift to the University, we'd be delighted to talk to you.
You can also get in touch to discuss gifts of stocks and shares.
If you're a higher rate or additional rate tax-payer giving in this way enables you to claim full tax relief to the market value of your shares.
Contact Hannah V.
Jordan, Associate Director of Fundraising Email: h.v.jordan@sheffield.ac.uk
If you'd like to speak to a member of the giving team please call or email us, we'd love to hear from you.
We can also take gifts by card over the phone and help you set up or amend regular gifts by direct debit.
Call: +44 (0) 114 222 5598 Email: giving@sheffield.ac.uk
The impact of your gifts
Our fundraising promise
Making a gift from overseas

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/visitors/home:
Key information for any visitors needing to travel to and navigate around the University.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/payments/home:
Choose a service below to make a payment.
Pay using a debit or credit card.
Click here to pay by card
Pay using a variety of UK or International cards, bank accounts or e-wallets.
Click here to pay by Flywire
Pay using a variety of international cards, bank accounts or e-wallets.
Click here to pay by Convera
Click here to pay an overdue charge
Click here to pay a future charge
Change card details for payment of future tuition or accommodation fees.
Click here to update card details
Change bank account details for payment of future tuition or accommodation fees.
Click here to update bank account details
For queries about how you are paying your fees, when your fees are due, if you need an extension and more.
Answers to common queries about fees
Pay a non-student/commercial invoice.
Click here to pay an invoice
Help is available by emailing incomeofficehelp@sheffield.ac.uk
Students who have been instructed to make a repayment by a member of University staff.
Click here to make a repayment
For information on how to make a donation to the University of Sheffield.
Make a donation
Make payment for University products, conferences and events.
Visit the Online Store
We hope our payments page will direct you to the relevant payment portal quickly.
If you can't find what you need the please get in touch to let us know by emailing onlinepayments@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/policies:
Read or download University of Sheffield student policies.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/harassment-sexual-misconduct/home:
We encourage you to share concerns about any incidents of worrying or inappropriate behaviour you have experienced or witnessed.
How to share concerns and make a disclosure
Disclosures you make relating to an incident of harassment or sexual misconduct will remain confidential within the University, except in specific circumstances.
Confidentiality and information sharing
What to expect if you make a report, including information about the different resolution options available.
What happens if you make a report
If you make a report of harassment or sexual misconduct, there are several options for resolving your concerns that you may be offered.
University resolution options
If you've been affected by any form of harassment or sexual misconduct, support is available.
Support for those affected by harassment or sexual misconduct
It can be difficult and stressful to be accused of inappropriate behaviour.
Support is available if you need to talk to someone.
Support if you've been accused
We have made a commitment to share data relating to the disclosures that we receive, and the actions that we have taken in response.
Reports, data and research
Policies and procedures relating to the University’s response to incidents and reports of harassment and sexual misconduct.
Our guide to freedom of speech and academic freedom outlines the University's commitment to protecting and promoting freedom of speech and academic freedom within the law.
In January 2022, the University of Sheffield signed the Can’t Buy My Silence university pledge.
This means we do not use non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) in relation to complaints of bullying, harassment, discrimination or sexual misconduct .
Since September 2024 the Office for Students has prohibited universities from using NDAs in relation to student allegations of harassment and sexual misconduct.
All staff and students are required to undertake regular training to understand their role in preventing, identifying and responding to cases of harassment and sexual misconduct.
Training and role responsibilities
An overview of the terminology, language and definitions we use when referring to harassment and sexual misconduct.
Definitions we use
Information and guidance for staff on the Bullying, Harassment and Sexual Misconduct policy and how the University prevents and responds to allegations of bullying, harassment, sexual misconduct, discrimination and victimisation.
Bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct: information for staff (staff login required)
Comprehensive information which sets out our policies and procedures, information about reporting harassment and sexual misconduct, and details of support available for students who have been affected by harassment and/or sexual misconduct.
Harassment and sexual misconduct: an overview for students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/library/home:
Our world-class library delivers an outstanding student and researcher experience
StarPlus is the University Library online search tool, designed to allow you to search, find and read the Library’s print and online collections.
The Library has many places you can study – find the ideal space for your learning.
University Library, Western Bank, University of Sheffield S10 2TN
+44 114 222 7200
library@sheffield.ac.uk
Get answers to frequently asked questions through our dedicated Library Help platform.
You can also live chat with a member of Library staff if you need further assistance.
Find answers
Follow us on Bluesky
Eric Pattison, an alumnus of the School of English, left an extraordinarily generous gift to the University in his Will which will transform library resources for all.
This year, SCHA hosted several student work placements which consisted of a variety of projects.
Read on to hear more about what they got up to…
Western Bank Library 21 July – 14 December 2025.
The exhibition looks at Peter's architectural journey through his writings, research and practice.
Also offers the rare chance to see the amazing, detailed model of Sheffield city centre in 1900.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/contact/home:
Get in touch with the University and find out more about how to study, work or partner with us.
You can contact the University at the following address:
The University of Sheffield Western Bank Sheffield S10 2TN UK
Information for visitors
Our switchboard can connect you to a named individual or help you find the appropriate department if you're not sure who you need to talk to.
If you're a member of University staff looking for the restricted-access internal phone directory then you'll find it at the top of the page under My services > Telephone directory.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/contact/social-media:
There are hundreds of official University and University-affiliated accounts.
A selection are listed below.
Our digital team monitors our central social media accounts.
Accounts run from other areas of the University may not always be monitored.
We try to respond to all reasonable enquiries made via social media as soon as possible, although we can’t guarantee a response to every one we receive.
Official University Facebook and X accounts are monitored 9am-5pm, Monday to Friday.
If you require a response outside of these hours, please refer to these contact details .
If you are concerned about your security or safety then please call the the University control room on 0114 2224085
There is also further guidance for staff on monitoring and managing social media accounts.
We support and encourage the use of social media (social networking websites, blogs, microblogs, and other online communications) to help meet our aims and objectives.
We maintain an official presence on several popular social media services, including Facebook and X.
Members of the University community also use social media to stay connected with the University, to communicate and conduct research, deliver teaching, connect with one another, communicate about University courses and events, share news and information, and announce activities and campus events.
The University is not responsible for comments or posts made by visitors to our accounts and we reserve the right to remove any content that we consider inappropriate.
This includes commercial content whose primary purpose is to sell a product, a service, or other such practices, as well as content that harasses, abuses, threatens, or in any other way violates the rights of others.
We also reserve the right to remove posts containing links.
When posting online, please bear in mind that your account details appear next to your comments and may be visible to other users on the sites.
The University upholds the terms of service standards administered by any of our social media accounts.
All users are encouraged to and adhere to these.
Guidelines written by University departments advising on best practice and behaviour should also be adhered to:
These guidelines are reviewed periodically.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/contact/comments:
Find the most appropriate way to get assistance and give feedback on the website.
If your enquiry is about studying at the University, your offer, or applying for a CAS to study at the University contact The Admissions Team .
If you have an enquiry about your student visa or require immigration advice contact the International Student Support Team .
If you're a new student with a question about registering with the University, please visit the registration webpages for more guidance.
You can also contact the Student Administration Service using their enquiry form or by telephoning +44 114 222 1288.
If your enquiry relates to an academic discipline, you should contact the relevant academic school or department for further information.
If you're enquiring about support for students, refer to the support web page for a list of services.
If you're a member of staff or student at the University and would like a link to be updated or corrected, you can contact the owner of the site by consulting the site owners directory .
If the suggestions above are inappropriate and you'd like to report an IT system or web page as being broken, first check the IT Services status page to see if it is a known issue.
You can also find out what help is available from IT Services .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/privacy:
This policy explains what types of personal information will be gathered when you visit the University of Sheffield's website, and how this information will be used.
Please note that this policy applies to the University's main web pages (i.e.
those in www.sheffield.ac.uk and www.shef.ac.uk ).
Other sites run by the University may carry their own privacy policy and/or provide additional information relating to their activities, which will supersede or supplement this privacy policy.
If you follow a link to any other website, please check their policies before you submit any personal information to those websites.
On some parts of the website, you may be asked to provide some limited personal information in order to enable the provision of certain services (e.g.
prospectus ordering, registering with a society, applying for a vacancy etc).
The University may store this information manually or electronically.
By supplying this information you are consenting to the University holding and using it for the purposes for which it was provided.
Information provided will be kept for as long as is necessary to fulfil that purpose.
We also collect information about your computer, including where available your IP address, operating system and browser type, for system administration and to report aggregate information to our webmasters.
This allows us to ensure that content from our site is presented in the most effective manner for you and for your computer.
Personal information provided to the University by you will only be used for the purposes stated when the information is requested.
Personal information will not be sold to third parties, or provided to direct marketing companies or other such organisations without your permission.
Personal information collected and/or processed by the University is held in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act 1998.
Demographical and statistical information about user behaviour may be collected and used to analyse the popularity and effectiveness of the University's website.
Any disclosure of this information will be in aggregate form and will not identify individual users.
We collect data relating to the demographic and interests of our users via tools such as Google Analytics and cookies set by Google advertising networks.
This data is used in aggregated form to help improve the site and the University’s marketing efforts
Information which you provide to us will ordinarily be stored on our own secure servers.
We also work with third party contractors, some of whom host and operate certain features of the website.
Accordingly, information that we collect from you may be collected in or transferred to a destination outside the European Economic Area ("EEA").
That information may be processed by staff operating outside the EEA who work for us or for one of our contractors.
By submitting personal information, you agree to this transfer, storing and processing.
We will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy.
We may disclose your personal information to third parties if we are under a duty to disclose or share such information in order to comply with any legal obligation or to protect the rights, property or safety of the University, its members or others.
Most of our web pages use "cookies".
A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we place on your computer or mobile device if you agree.
These cookies allow us to distinguish you from other users of our website, which helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and also allow us to improve our website.
The cookies we use fall into the following categories:
For more detailed information on the cookies we use on the University's main web pages (i.e.
those in www.sheffield.ac.uk ) and the purposes for which we use them, see our cookie statement .
Please refer to individual websites for further information about the use of cookies on other web pages on the sheffield.ac.uk domain.
We may use cookies set by DoubleClick that allow the advertising network to identify users across multiple sessions purely for advertising purposes.
This technology may be used to target ads based on user behaviour, report on advertising campaign performance, and to control how often certain ads are seen by users.
You can amend your cookie preferences for this website at any time by changing your cookie settings:
The Data Protection Act 1998 gives you the right to access information held about you.
For further information about this right and how to exercise it, please see the University’s Policy on Data Protection.
From time to time, we may use your information for new, unanticipated uses not previously disclosed in our privacy policy.
If our information practices change at some time in the future we will post the policy changes on this page.
If you are concerned about how your information is used, you should check this page periodically.
If you feel this site is not following its stated information policy, you may contact us at dataprotection@sheffield.ac.uk or write to:
University Data Protection Officer The University of Sheffield First Floor Arts Tower 12 Bolsover Street Sheffield S3 7NA
Cookie and similar technologies policy

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accessibility:
We want everyone who uses our website to be able to find, read and understand our content.
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Sheffield main website and applications across the extensive wider University domain.
This website is run by the University of Sheffield.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
Responsibility for the main website sits across the Digital team in Marketing, Admissions, Recruitment and Communications and the Web team in IT Services.
The main website pages reflow to fit the resolution and orientation of your device.
Pages are responsive up to 300%+ using browser zoom and 200% when enlarging default text size.
In this accessibility statement we refer to browser plug-ins and other tools that may make your experience of web content more comfortable or productive.
These suggestions are provided in good faith from reputable sources but please note that plugins and software are used at your own risk.
The University of Sheffield is not responsible for any issues arising from the use of tools or plugins over which they have no influence or control.
Plugin suggestions are for the Chrome browser but similar (or identical) plugins exist for other browsers.
You can magnify text by increasing the default font size in your browser settings (or with browser plugins – for example A+ Font SizeChangerLite for Chrome ).
Or you can use the inbuilt browser zoom function – CTRL + (Windows) or CMD + (Mac).
Using a mix of both techniques can give fine-tuned viewing experiences.
Get magnification and reflow by changing the browser default font size and default display size in the accessibility settings menu
Pages have been designed so that users should be able to change font size and colours within the browser or using browser plug-ins such as HighContrast (Chrome web store) .
Pages have been designed using navigation landmarks to allow screen reader users to understand and access content more quickly.
Keyboard access is generally strong with the "skip to main content" link across all pages and a strong visual indicator of tab focus.
Submenus can be accessed by hitting the enter key when the menu item is highlighted.
To allow for full keyboard navigation of all focusable interactive elements in macOS Safari and Firefox, you'll need to make sure the your keyboard settings are adjusted .
The heading structure of most pages sampled is logical and hierarchical, allowing assistive technology users to navigate quickly to any part of the page – for example using a browser plugin such as HeadingsMap or inbuilt screenreader functionality.
A few pages have missed heading levels (for example level 2 and 3) in some sections.
All links should open in the same browser window, except for file download links (Google and Microsoft Word documents and PDF files) and links to external websites.
You can find useful guidance on adjusting your laptop or phone to suit your needs on these resources: MyComputerMyWay or Scope guidance on phone accessibility features .
Most of the page content can be accessed by text-to-speech tools, including:
Exceptions – where known – are noted in the Non-accessible content section.
You can explore some of our recommendations for tools that can make your experience better .
Accessibility features are in place for the University’s core digital learning tools such as Blackboard Learn, Blackboard Collaborate, Echo 360 (Encore), Google Meet, Kaltura, PebblePad and Turnitin.
There are several key accessibility challenges that we are planning to fix.
This section summarises the main issues that affect you.
The technical section on non-accessible content has more details if you need them.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact:
Our helpdesk can connect you to a named individual or help you find the appropriate department if you require specific information.
If you need information on this website in a different format or via an alternative service please contact us and ask for an alternative format.
We'll review your request and get back to you within two working days.
Please be aware that the people reviewing the request may not be the owners of the content or the service you are trying to access and will do their best to seek out the owners as quickly as possible.
Some requests will be easier to fulfil than others and take a little more time – we can discuss this with you.
If you are planning to visit the University, you can find our address, contact details and information for visitors .
You can find specific guidance for disabled students and visitors , such as access information for all our buildings and services, the Disability and Dyslexia Support Service and safety procedures.
If you cannot view the map on our information for visitors page, call or email us for directions.
If you have reported a problem with our website or asked for an alternative format and you are not happy with our response, please contact us by form, email or phone .
This will help us improve our systems.
If you are still not happy then please email us at digital.help@sheffield.ac.uk and we will look into the problem.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you're not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
The University of Sheffield is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 – AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The non-compliant areas of our website are reviewed as part of our website development work roadmap.
We have reviewed all issues identified in the latest accessibility audits (April 2025 for the public website and June 2022 for our internal intranet sites).
From November 2021 we added actions into our backlog and development roadmaps to remedy the issues.
The next site audit is scheduled for 2026.
On several pages, the headings are not nested correctly.
Headings should be nested, and levels should not be skipped.
This can cause confusion for some users as they are unaware of the visual hierarchy of headings.
This makes it difficult to navigate.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.3.3 Information and relationships.
Further training and guidance for website editors to encourage them to use the correct headings will help address this.
We've updated high-traffic web pages but this is still inconsistent on pages across the domain.
On some pages, there are elements that title or categorise other content which have not been marked up as headings.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.3.1 Info and Relationships.
We've added this to the review schedule and notified a third party where this was related to an embed.
There are form fields that are not associated with their visual labels.
The labelling method used means that the labels are inappropriately overridden and the purpose of the form fields may be unclear to users.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions.
We've added this to the review schedule.
A button in the undergraduate prospectus course page does not meet the the required contrast ratio of 4.5:1 when receiving focus.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast.
At 320 x 256px and 100% zoom, the course page heading and section homepage is clipped.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.4.10 Reflow.
There is custom focus indication that does not meet the contrast ratio on some components.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 2.4.13 Focus Appearance.
On several pages, there are decorative images with alternative text.
The alt text is not needed – it adds audio clutter.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.1.1 Non-text content.
We have removed the image alt text in templates where we can guarantee that the images used are decorative.
We have reviewed and updated our guidelines so that editors understand that if an image is decorative, it should have an empty alt.
A review of the highest visited pages took place in July 2021 and the alt text was updated.
We have updated our guidance and image upload forms to help editors understand how to write good alternative text and also that not all pages require an image.
We have identified some additional images where an alternative text is not required and have added the removal of these to our review schedule.
Text should not be embedded in images.
This can make the content inaccessible.
For example, screen readers rely on the text being included in text alternatives, which are commonly not effective for communicating multiple sentences or structured text.
As well, the text appears pixelated when accessed with screen magnification software.
There are images of text.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.4.5: Images of Text.
We have updated our guidance to help editors understand why it is best to avoid images with embedded text.
If a relationship between elements is expressed with visual cues, it also needs to be programmatically determined.
This enables assistive technology to communicate the relationships to users.
Content may otherwise seem unstructured or disorganised.
There has been an attempt to implement a nested list on some pages.
A new nesting is started in a separate <li> element for a group of related list items.
However, they semantically belong to the previous <ul> element.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.3.1: Info and Relationships.
This has been added to the review schedule above.
At 200% zoom, the course page navigation menu controls are cut off and it is not possible to scroll to the elements on.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.4.4 Resize text.
Our videos are keyboard operable.
Most of the videos across our website are hosted on the Kaltura digital media hub or YouTube.
Any videos published using Kaltura since 21 September 2021 have automatic captions applied.
Staff are advised they can retrospectively generate captions for videos published before this date.
However, we have a number of known accessibility issues.
For more details see the Kaltura section of our page on the accessibility of our digital learning tools .
We plan to address the below issues by implementing updated web accessibility training and guidelines from September 2025.
Videos must have accurate and informative audio descriptions or media alternative.
There are prerecorded videos without audio descriptions or media alternative, such as a transcript.
The video content relies on perceiving the visuals.
This may particularly disadvantage low vision and blind users who may be excluded by the reliance on the visuals.
Users may be unable to access the information in the video.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.2.3: Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded).
Note that this WCAG A success criterion permits transcripts, unlike its AA counterpart (Audio Descriptions) which requires audio descriptions.
Videos must have accurate and informative audio descriptions.
There are prerecorded videos without audio descriptions.
Note that this WCAG AA success criterion requires audio descriptions, unlike its A counterpart (Audio Description or Media Alternative) which permits transcripts.
Pre-recorded videos require captions for users with limited or no hearing.
Some of the videos use autogenerated captions.
Although the accuracy of these is reasonable and they generally reflect the spoken words in the video, they lack an indication of who is currently speaking.
This can be particularly difficult when speakers change multiple times.
We know there are examples of this with our videos.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.2.2: Captions (Prerecorded).
There are prerecorded videos with captions that are auto-generated.
However, the captions are slightly inaccurate.
This may particularly disadvantage deaf users who may be excluded by the inaccuracy of the captions.
Users might be misinformed or confused by the captions.
Interactive elements need a programmatically determined name, role, and value.
These properties must also be accurate and appropriate.
There are iFrame elements that have an inappropriate accessible name.
This may particularly disadvantage users that interface with the accessibility properties of elements, such as screen reader and voice recognition users.
That the accessible name is inappropriate may confuse or mislead users.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value.
Improving this for video iFrames has been added to the review schedule above.
On iOS devices, the Kaltura video player for Safari users exhibits the following behaviour:
We have investigated this and attempted to use the plays inline attribute but we don't have control over adding that from our end.
We will continue to investigate if there is a way to remedy this.
At 320 x 256px and 100% zoom, a button on some videos is lost and there is no alternative to this functionality.
We will raise this with the third party video supplier.
The structure of some elements of the course finder on the homepage have not been programmatically determined.
There are elements on course pages that are visually communicated as being key and value pairs but this structure has not been programmatically determined.
These embeds are not fully accessible.
Issues include interactive elements do not receive keyboard focus; drag and drop cannot be adjusted with keyboard or screen reader; keyboard focus is trapped; functional image has no text alternative; elements use list semantics inappropriately; meaningful visual structure is not represented by reading order; colour is relied upon to communicate information; and regular text does not have sufficient contrast.
We have raised these issues with the internal business owner of the product and are awaiting a fix.
The Hotjar feedback plugin is not fully accessible.
It contains a colour contrast error and creates a repeated text issue when disabling Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).
Hotjar has confirmed they are aware of the issues but currently don't have a timeline for when these aspect of the surveys will become compliant.
Users must be able to pause, stop, or hide, any content that automatically moves, scrolls, or blinks.
There is automatically moving content in the Discover Uni widget that cannot be controlled.
This may disadvantage several user groups.
For example, the content may move faster than screen readers can announce it, keyboard users may struggle to navigate through the content, and it may be cognitively overloading for various users.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 2.2.2: Pause, Stop, Hide.
Discover Uni has confirmed they will be updating the widget in due course, including implementing the necessary improvements to accessibility, but it's not yet clear when it will be fully compliant.
The focus order is not managed when this widget is removed from the page.
This may particularly disadvantage keyboard users who often navigate by tabbing through the interactive elements.
The illogical focus order may make the page difficult to understand and interact with.
Some images within the widget are decorative as they do not communicate any unique or meaningful information.
We have raised these issues with the supplier of the product and are awaiting a fix.
Both the primary and secondary navigation contain headings that visually look like headings, but they are not marked up as such.
In all cases, the headings are marked up as links, and are not communicated as a heading to assistive technology users.
Furthermore, the headings on the navigation submenus do not form a logical structure.
This fails checkpoint 1.3.3 Information and relationships.
The group of accordions is wrapped in a <dl>, and each accordion button is a <dt> and the contents is a <dd>.
This does not communicate what is being shown visually and may confuse assistive technology users who may be expecting different content.
This has been reviewed but on investigation we found that the patch used to swap <dt> and <dl> tags to <div> resulted in all accordion functionality and styling being lost.
Rebuilding the accordions from scratch has been added to the review schedule above.
That the expandable state is not programmatically determined may confuse or mislead users.
This fails WCAG checkpint 1.3.1: Info and Relationships.
This has been added to the review schedule.
News card visual and programmatic reading order puts the date before the card heading.
However, this is not an appropriate reading order as it is unclear to a non-visual user which content the date refers to.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.3.2: Meaningful Sequence.
When a screen reader user first lands on a field, it reads ‘Search query, edit, required, invalid entry”.
The user is told that their error is invalid before they have entered any information.
This fails checkpoint 4.1.1 Parsing.
There is a <figure> element that has been used inappropriately to wrap the <table> element.
This might convey wrong information to assistive technologies about the page content structure.
As well, it might be mistaken that some important illustrations, diagrams, or photos have been missed.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 1.3.1: Info and Relationships.
If a relationship between elements is expressed with visual cues, it also needs to be programmatically determinable.
There are elements that are visually communicated as being quotes.
However, this structure has not been programmatically determined.
As quote content is not stored as a single field in our database, it is not possible for us to distinguish where non-speech quote marks have been used - e.g.
when writing feet and inches, ditto marks and programming language markup.
So globally changing all quotes on the website to use <q> </q> tags would result in content not being marked up appropriately.
For this reason we have been advised by our accessibility auditors that it is preferable to continue to keep quotes marked up as they are currently.
There are off-screen interactive elements that receive focus which may confuse or frustrate users.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 2.4.3: Focus Order.
There are interactive tab heading elements on course pages that receive focus but which do not provide any visual cue.
Course finders do not have a visible label to indicate the purpose of the control, such as "Select prospectus year".
This fails WCAG checkpoint 2.4.7: Focus Visible.
Some interactive third-party video elements do not have an accessible name which may confuse or mislead users.
This fails WCAG checkpoint 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value.
The University commenced a project in January 2018 to build a new, more accessible website and to review and migrate the content to this new website platform.
This has evolved into a programme of work that covers the public website, Staff and Student hubs (intranets) and wider sites not hosted on the main University content management system.
It is therefore disproportionate to fix accessibility problems from the legacy systems in conjunction with building and migrating appropriate content.
The two disproportionate burden statements outline the scale of the work and expected timescales.
Disproportionate burden assessment - website and intranet
Disproportionate burden assessment - non-CMS sites
Audio descriptions are not available for all our time based media.
For example, videos on our accommodation web pages and some returning to campus videos.
This fails checkpoint 1.2.4 Audio description or media alternative and 1.2.5.
We will review and update guidance for content creators and editors so that audio and media alternatives are provided.
Embedded videos hosted on YouTube, Vimeo and other media players include non-accessible elements that are native to the video platform.
For example this means buttons to play videos are not descriptive enough for screen reader users as the context of the video is not clear; headings are not marked up semantically and accessible name not defined for volume slider.
This fails WCAG 2.4.6 AA (Headings and Labels).
There are some PDF documents on the website (such as the archive policy documents for 2016 to 2018) which are inaccessible but are out of scope for the accessibility regulations because they are not in active administrative use.
Internal facing content (intranet and extranet) published before 23 September 2019 that has not undertaken a major revision.
We know that some of third-party content linked from our websites and applications is not accessible.
The accessibility regulations do not apply to third-party content that is not funded, developed, or controlled by the University, and many of these sites have their own accessibility statements.
We will work with our suppliers to make sure they know about any accessibility issues we find.
Items which have been added to the review schedule and completed:
Improved website dashboard launched for website CMS editors to further encourage review and checks of pages.
H1 heading option removed on some pages to ensure only one H1 is used
Accessibility course launched for staff website CMS editors.
Expanded alternative text guidance integrated to image upload/edit form.
Website editors are now required to tick to confirm any website PDF or document is accessible prior to upload.
Text on images guidance for website editors published.
Guide to accessible and inclusive communication for staff launched.
Dropdown secondary navigation menus are now accessible using the keyboard.
Single 'Related links' now render as a paragraph instead of a list Added an ARIA label for logos
Accordion items are now marked up as expandable Improved text colour contrast on green call-to-action button
Main homepage now has H1 header
Postgraduate taught prospectus headings structure and nesting corrected for all courses
Footer links are now marked up in a single list
This statement was originally prepared on 22 September 2020 and was last reviewed and updated on 21 July 2025.
We update this statement at least annually.
The next website accessibility audit is due before the end of September 2026.
Any subsequent actions will be reviewed and updated in this statement by the end of 2026.
This public website was tested in August 2021, September 2023, against the WCAG 2.1 AA standard, and April 2025 against the WCAG 2.2 AA standard.
Our search results page and internal intranet were tested in July 2022 against the WCAG 2.1 AA standard.
The testing was carried out as below.
We conducted a headline overview test with external consultants Ability Net sampling a range of pages on visitor journeys using a combination of manual testing and automated checkers.
This was a functional review that identified accessibility issues as they are experienced by users who rely on assistive technology or need to personalise web content to meet their needs.
The review focussed on reusable components and templates in order to identify accessibility issues that would need to be addressed for the site to be compliant with accessibility standards.
It included a review of a sample of pages against ten accessibility criteria on each page and identified the components and templates that are reused across the site.
These criteria are aligned to WCAG W3C Easy Checks methodology which will form part of the compliance monitoring process for the Public Sector Web Accessibility Regulations.
There was also functional accessibility testing of components found to be causing accessibility issues during the initial review.
Whilst this testing is grounded in the WCAG 2.1/2.2 level AA standards, its primary purpose is to identify issues that cannot be found with automatic checkers and provide recommendations on how to resolve or mitigate these issues.
Testing was carried out using a variety of tools, including assistive technologies and NVDA screen reader in Firefox browser.
Internal intranet pages:
We also do ongoing in-house manual testing using a range of tools such as Axe and an automated accessibility checker from Funnelback, the provider of our onsite search tool.
We are working with our student Disability Champions (disabled students) and disabled staff to review key journeys across the University website, virtual learning platforms, Staff hub and Student hub.
We will focus on visitors who do not regularly use a mouse.
We have communicated accessibility good practice across the University organisation, run training and provide guidance for making content accessible.
We launched an accessibility course for CMS website editors.
This is mandatory for all new trainees and is being taken retrospectively by existing editors.
We will review and update the guidance and training provided to staff on how to create accessible content, with a focus on video and documents.
We plan to do this by June 2025.
To help students and visitors gain support with accessing the site, we will review suitable options for signposting to accessibility guidance, such as My Study My Way , so that students and visitors can adjust their operating system to meet their specific needs.
We have reviewed the results of our own and external accessibility audits from September 2020, August 2021, June 2022, September 2023 and April 2025.
We have scheduled new actions to our issue backlog, roadmap and sprints to remedy the issues, and some are complete .
We will review our familiarity with ARIA and other accessibility coding techniques.
We have embedded accessibility testing within our release and QA process and now run over 550 checks on any new deployment.
A Disability Equality Strategy and Action plan, which aims to improve the experiences of our disabled staff and students was launched in Spring 2022.
The institutional live disability equality action plan details the progress of the actions in the plan, including improving digital accessibility and meeting WCAG 2.2 AA standards.
Accessibility statement - jobs portal
Disproportionate burden assessment - jobs portal
Accessibility statement for SITS / eVision
Disability and Dyslexia Support Service
You can contact us via our feedback form if you have any problems.
Be as specific and detailed as you can, and please also tell us what you like and find useful.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/foi:
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOIA) gives a general right of access to all types of recorded information held by the University of Sheffield, sets out exemptions from that right, and places obligations on the University when responding to requests for information.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/procurement/modern-slavery:
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as human trafficking, forced labour, servitude, and slavery, all of which involve depriving a person of their liberty for personal or commercial gain.
We recognise our duty to take a robust approach in eradicating slavery and human trafficking throughout our supply chains.
This annual statement outlines the steps the University of Sheffield has taken in the last financial year and those we intend to take to address the issues of Modern Slavery in our supply chains.
Incorporated by Royal Charter in 1905, the University of Sheffield is a public research University and an exempt charity under the Charities Act 2006.
With a turnover exceeding £850m for the financial year ending July 2024, the University qualifies as a commercial organisation under The Modern Slavery Act 2015 (Transparency in Supply Chains) requiring us to report annually on our efforts to eradicate modern slavery from our supply chain(s).
The University has over 27,000 students, 8,500 staff and strategic partnerships with local, national, and global organisations.
Our academic schools are grouped into five faculties:
In addition, the Advanced Manufacturing Group (AMG) is a network of world-leading research and innovation centres collaborating with government agencies to support manufacturing companies globally to drive innovation and sustainability.
Faculties and the AMG are supported by Professional Services, led by our Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Human Resources.
Supply Chains
Our supply chains deliver goods and services that support research, teaching, and operations, including, but not limited to:
Travel
The supply chain includes multi-nationals, SMEs and private individuals.
We recognise that modern slavery and human trafficking can occur at any level of our supply chain, both domestically and internationally.
The University is a member of the North Eastern Universities Purchasing Consortium (NEUPC) , itself a part of the national UK Universities Purchasing Consortia (UKUPC) .
These consortia facilitate collaboration on ethical procurement and best practices in tackling modern slavery.
We engage on modern slavery and sustainability issues with the wider university sector through our membership of the Higher Education Procurement Association (HEPA) and representative membership of the national Responsible Procurement Steering Group.
Spending money with a social and ethical conscience, supporting SMEs, focussing on renewable energy, and ensuring the goods and services we are procuring are free from modern slavery and human trafficking are just some of the aspects the University’s Procurement team focuses on.
To support our commitment to ensuring modern slavery and human trafficking do not exist in our supply chains, the University maintains and regularly reviews the following policies:
In 2025, the University will further develop a specific Modern Slavery Policy.
Our terms and conditions require all suppliers to comply with these policies as a condition of their contracts with the University.
We undertake a structured due diligence process to mitigate Modern Slavery risks, including:
During the financial year 2025/2026 we will:
To measure the effectiveness of our work, we will develop and introduce the following KPIs:
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and is reviewed annually.
It was approved by the University Executive Board and signed by:
Professor Koen Lamberts President and Vice-Chancellor For and on behalf of the University of Sheffield 15 April 2025

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/research:
Our research has a global reputation.
It influences policy, changes lives and helps us to understand the world so that we can make it better.
Our courses are informed by that research.
These exceptional people are drawn to Sheffield by the opportunity to work at the frontiers of knowledge, on research that has real impact.
In some cases, you might be taught by the academics involved.
You’ll be introduced to the latest ideas.
You will also get a clear sense of how your subject or your chosen profession might evolve in the near future.
Most important of all, we want you to ask questions of your own, so we teach you how to inquire in a focused, objective, systematic way.
For example, all our masters students carry out research projects.
A very high percentage of those projects involve collaborations with our partners in industry and the professions.
Our courses are structured like this because we want you to be a genuine master of your subject, not just someone who has absorbed a lot of facts.
We want you to understand the processes by which we advance knowledge and how knowledge is turned into real-world applications.
But research at Sheffield isn’t just a means to an end.
This questioning spirit, the need to understand, is also a state of mind, a way of seeing the world that will enrich your life for years to come.
We believe this discipline makes Sheffield one of the best places in the world to study.
If you'd like to learn more, you can discover our centres of excellence and explore research features .
More about our REF results​​​

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/visiting:
If you would like to come and study at the University of Sheffield for a short period without enrolling on a course, and you're currently studying towards an undergraduate or postgraduate degree elsewhere, you may wish to consider applying as a visiting student.
A visiting student is anyone who studies a module or selection of modules, a semester or a full year of a taught course, or who conducts research at the University, but who doesn't undertake a full degree course and therefore doesn't qualify for the award of a University of Sheffield qualification.
The maximum duration of a period of visiting study/research is normally 12 months.
You can find details of the modules currently offered by the University in our Directory of Modules:
Directory of Modules
This directory contains a list of the University's academic schools.
Click or tap on a school to see the modules it offers and their credit values.
Visiting students can study a maximum of 120 credits in a year.
Modules where the code begins with a 1, 2 or 3 are those studied by Sheffield undergraduate students.
The number indicates the year of study in which Sheffield students normally sit these modules, so modules with codes beginning 3, for example, usually require considerable prior experience in the subject area.
If you'd like more information about a particular module, contact the school that offers it:
List of academic schools
You can apply to study at Sheffield as a visiting student using our online application form:
Alternative Routes and Programmes Online Application Form
Please include with your application:
If any of your certificates or transcripts have been issued in a language other than English, you should include with them official, authenticated English translations.
You can attach supporting documents to your online application, either when you apply or by logging back into the form using your email address and password.
You can log in to your application at any time and add additional documents, even after it has been submitted.
Your application will be considered by the relevant academic school(s).
When they've made a decision we'll write to you to tell you what this is.
If we're able to offer you a place, we'll send you an offer letter confirming the details of the study for which you've been accepted, including the period of registration at the University and the tuition fees.
As a visiting student you'll be able to attend all the classes associated with the agreed programme.
If you wish, you can also be assessed in the same way as students studying for a University of Sheffield qualification, for example through coursework or examinations.
Some schools may include as a condition of their offer the requirement that you complete assessments.
When you've finished, upon request we'll provide a certificate of attendance and/or a transcript confirming the modules you've studied and the results of any assessment.
These can be either issued to you or forwarded to your own institution.
Fees for visiting students are charged pro rata of the standard Sheffield fee (Home or Overseas as appropriate).
Sheffield students study 120 credits per year.
Therefore if you study, for example, 60 credits you will be charged half the full-time fee for one year's study.
Standard tuition fee rates are set out on our Student Fees webpages:
Modules where the code begins with a 4, 5 or 6 are those studied by Sheffield postgraduate taught students, but visiting postgraduate taught students can choose modules from both our undergraduate and postgraduate curricula.
Full-time Sheffield masters students normally study 180 credits per year (including the dissertation/research project).
Therefore if you study, for example, 90 credits you will be charged half the full-time fee for one year's study.
You have to be registered on a PhD at another institution to undertake research as a visiting student.
In the first instance you should contact the academic school in which you'd like to undertake research to discuss your plans.
When you're ready to submit a formal application, you can do so using our online application form:
When you've submitted the form it will be considered by the relevant academic school(s).
If we're able to offer you a place, we'll email you an offer letter confirming the details of the research for which you have been accepted, including the period of registration at the University and the tuition fees, where applicable.
When you've finished your period of registration, upon request we'll provide a certificate of attendance.
You can register for up to three months without a tuition fee being charged.
Subject to school and faculty approval, in exceptional circumstances the fee-free registration period may be extended to a maximum of twelve months, providing you are either:
If this is not the case, you'll be required to pay tuition fees for the registration period beyond the initial three months.
For example, if you study for another six months after the fee-free period, you'll be charged half the full-time fee for one year's study.
Postgraduate research tuition fees
The University of Sheffield welcomes applications from incoming Worldwide Universities Network (WUN) visiting research students under the Research Mobility Programme (RMP) to join us for short study periods of up to three months.
WUN Research Mobility Programme
All visiting students are required to demonstrate that they have sufficient English language to study at the University.
For International students, this is also a requirement of the visa application process.
English language requirements for undergraduates
English language requirements for postgraduates
If you require a visa to study in the UK, the type of visa you apply for depends on how long you will spend in the UK.
Visiting students studying in the UK for more than six months must apply for a Student visa.
To apply for this type of visa, students need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number.
The CAS number is arranged by the institution where the student intends to study, and confirms that they have accepted an Unconditional offer of a study place.
You can find information about how and when the University of Sheffield will arrange your CAS number, and what you need to do, on our CAS application webpages:
CAS applications
Visiting students studying in the UK for six months or less can choose to apply for a Student visa or a Visit visa.
The Admissions Service will email you after you've accepted an Unconditional offer with information about each type of visa so you can decide which one best suits your needs.
Visiting students studying in certain science and engineering schools may require ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) clearance from the UK government before they can arrange their visa to study in the UK.
We'll let you know if this applies to you.
Academic Technology Approval Scheme
Visiting students are able to apply for University accommodation, although we can't guarantee them a place.
We'll tell you more about this if you accept an offer of a study place.
Semester dates
Living costs
Ask us a question

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/inclusion/race/bame-students:
Developed in collaboration with our BAME student community, these pages brings together tailored information, resources, and guidance for all undergraduate and postgraduate students to help you make the most of your time at university.
Information, resources, and guidance to help you make the most of your time at university.
Sheffield is a diverse city that caters for people of all backgrounds, so there’s lots to discover beyond campus.
Find out about current Sheffield students' experiences by chatting to some of our BAME students.
​We recognise that everyone has the potential to progress to higher education, but may have different circumstances and barriers to overcome.
We offer opportunities and support to help you access education at Sheffield.
From scholarships and awards to bursaries and loans, there are various sources of funding for taught students that can help with your studies.
The University has been awarded funding for three projects which aim to tackle persistent inequalities that create barriers for Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) students to access and take part in postgraduate research.
This page brings together tailored information to help anyone looking for advice on life at Sheffield, religious support, or opportunities to connect with the Muslim student community.
Muslim students
We’re committed to improving the culture and experience of students and staff for whom religion, belief or non-belief is important.
The Religion, Belief and No Belief (BNBR) Life Centre supports anyone, whatever their identity, religion, belief or non-belief.
Religion, Belief and No Belief (BNBR) Life Centre
Support and advice if you're an international student coming to study at Sheffield.
Support for International students
We have a range of scholarships, schemes and support available for those seeking sanctuary.
Support for students seeking sanctuary
Information and support for those affected by the conflict in Israel, Gaza and the Middle East
We use the acronym BAME to refer to people from Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic groups within the UK, while recognising its profound limitations in grouping together diverse experiences.
We continue to monitor our progress to identify specific challenges faced by particular ethnicities and ensure these are addressed.
This approach helps us progress race equality while avoiding unnecessary racialisation.
Celebrating the achievements of some of our Black, Asian and other minority ethnic staff, students and alumni.
Portraits of racial diversity
What we’re doing to improve our race equality and culture for all staff and students.
Race equality at the University
Let us know your thoughts on the BAME student web pages.
Your feedback will help us improve the information and guidance on these web pages.
Share your feedback

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/inclusion/religion-belief-and-no-belief/muslim-students:
Developed in collaboration with our Muslim student community, these pages brings together tailored information, resources, and guidance to help you make the most of your time at university.
Information, resources, and guidance to help you succeed personally and academically throughout your university journey.
Sheffield is a diverse city that has a well established Muslim community, so there’s lots to discover beyond campus.
The Muslim chaplaincy in the Belief, No Belief and Religious (BNBR) Life Centre provides support and advice for Muslim students and staff living and working in Sheffield.
Deciding whether to take out a student loan can be a confusing time due to differing financial rulings in Islam regarding the matter of riba (interest) in loans.
Student funding and sharia law
The Aziz Foundation Scholarships provide Masters scholarships to support British Muslims.
The Avicenna Foundation aims to help the Muslim community through provision of access to further education to enhance employment and work experience opportunities.
Developed in collaboration with our BAME student community, this page brings together tailored information, resources, and guidance to help you make the most of your time at university.
We were the runner-up for the Aziz Inclusion Award in 2023, which celebrate institutions that have demonstrated excellence in accommodating British Muslim students.
About the Aziz Inclusion Award
Let us know your thoughts on the Muslim student web pages.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses:
Use our search to find the right course for you.
Course regulations
We offer degrees with a foundation year for people who don't have the usual qualifications.
Foundation year degrees from Lifelong Learning
Explore our guide to Sheffield to get a glimpse of what you could enjoy if you choose to study here.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/register-your-interest:
If you're interested in studying at the University of Sheffield and would like to be added to our mailing list to hear about events and what it’s like to study with us, please complete the details below.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate:
A masters or PhD at Sheffield will deepen your knowledge in your chosen area, develop your skills and push you to realise your full potential.
Sign up for our mailing list to hear about postgraduate events and to learn more about what it’s like to study with us.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/visit/events:
As soon as details of the next online postgraduate open day are confirmed, we'll publish them here.
In the meantime, why not register your interest in postgraduate study?
There’s a lot to consider when researching and choosing where to study.
Every Wednesday, Sheffield Live sessions cover all different aspects of University life to help you as you go through your application journey with us.
Full list of Sheffield Live online events
Want to see the campus in person?
Visit Sheffield and undertake guided tours of our campus for prospective postgraduate students.
Postgraduate campus tours
Take a virtual tour – explore the University with our student vloggers, including our campus, facilities, Students' Union and more.
Meet our expert staff and students at a postgraduate study fair in locations across the UK and online as an alternative to open days, to make it easier for you.
Our team will be attending Postgraduate LIVE study fairs study fairs in London, Manchester, Oxford, Birmingham, Liverpool and Sheffield this year.
Our student ambassadors are the best people to tell you about what studying at Sheffield is like.
Start a conversation or search for their answers to your questions.
Chat to a postgraduate student
Check the schedule for any upcoming events for PhD students.
Sheffield Live online events
Find us at PhD study fairs and exhibitions - future dates will appear on this webpage.
In addition to the above, some of our schools organise events for prospective postgraduate students:
For further information about our postgraduate events, contact our UK/EU Recruitment Team or ask us a question .
+44 114 222 9872
study@sheffield.ac.uk
Find postgraduate taught courses
International students: events in your region
A masters from Sheffield means in-depth knowledge, advanced skills and the confidence to achieve your ambitions.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/register-your-interest:
If you're interested in postgraduate study at the University of Sheffield and would like to be added to our mailing list to hear about events and what it’s like to study with us, please complete the details below.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/education/lifelong-learning:
We offer degrees with a foundation year for mature students who are returning to education.
We value life and work experience, and lack of traditional entry qualifications is no barrier to entry.
Our courses are designed to give mature learners without standard university entry qualifications the best possible preparation for success on the course of their choice.
If you're considering a return to education, register now and join us at one of our upcoming events to find out more about life as a mature student at the University of Sheffield.
Studying for a degree or a certificate at university is an investment in your future.
Both the government and the University provide financial support to help cover the costs of your studies.
Help and advice is also available to help you understand what is available.
Discover is a free short course designed to inspire adults who haven’t been to university to progress with their learning.
The Wave 2 Whitham Road Sheffield S10 2AH
Follow lifelong learning on social media:
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
If you're thinking of studying at the University of Sheffield and need more information, you can call or message us on live chat.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/visit-us/take-virtual-tour:
Let our student vloggers take you on a virtual tour of our campus, facilities and more - or explore using our interactive map.
Sam and Hannah take you on a tour of our campus.
Take a tour around all the best spots in the city of Sheffield.
Discover the best Students' Union in the UK.
Join Usama, as he gives you a guided tour of Sport Sheffield.
There is something for everyone, from social sport sessions to elite athlete training.
Student vloggers Aleena and Khyati take you around Ranmoor/Endcliffe.
Student vlogger Ryan takes you around our city accommodation.
Open days

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/visit-us/self-guided-tours:
Take a tour of the campus at your own pace.
If you'd prefer to tour the campus on your own, you can use our self-guided tour leaflet.
On open days, copies of this leaflet are available to collect from our general information stand in the central exhibition, and from our information hubs around campus.
To navigate your way around campus you can use our interactive campus map .
To find out more about our buildings and facilities you can listen to our campus tour podcast, which is linked in the drop-down menu below.
Listen to our graduate tour guides as they show you around the campus on your self-guided tour.
Have a look around the No 1 Students' Union in the UK (Whatuni Student Choice Awards) where there is plenty of space to socialise, eat and study.
This multi-purpose venue is an internationally-recognised conference centre and music venue, as well as being used for lectures and graduation ceremonies.
Firth Court was opened in 1905 by Kind Edward VII and Queen Alexandra and is currently home to the School of Biosciences.
The Dainton and Richard Roberts Building are home to the Faculty of Science.
The East wing was renamed Richard Roberts after our Nobel Prize winning Alumnus.
Across the road from the building is the University Arms, a real-ale pub for University staff, students and visitors alike.
It serves hearty meals and has a great beer garden.
Western Bank Library and the Arts Tower are both Grade II listed buildings.
Western Bank contains 1.2 million texts and has 730 study spaces and backs onto Weston Park, making it a relaxed and tranquil place to study.
The Arts Tower was opened in 1966 by the Queen Mother and is mainly an administration block although the School of Architecture still occupies the top floors.
Bartolomé House is home to our School of Law and the Geography building is home to the School of Geography and Planning, although most geography and planning teaching takes place in other buildings across campus.
Sport & Physical Activity is housed in Goodwin and is where you can get involved in club sport, BUCS league and campus league.
This new four-storey building provides interdisciplinary teaching facilities for a range of Social Science subjects, as well as around 500 study spaces open to all students.
The Management building contains new, collaborative working spaces and lecture theatres used by multiple disciplines.
The school is a Triple Crown accredited business school and works with some of the worlds biggest organisations such as O2 and Satander.
Endcliffe and Ranmoor are where most of our first year students live and are a short walk into campus.
Both accommodation sites offer a wide range of options, from standard to deluxe rooms, and are all self-catered.
Our Medical School is adjacent to the Royal Hallamshire Hospital and is just 5 minutes away from the Students' Union and central campus.
This is where you will receive a lot of your teaching if you're studying medicine, dentistry or any other health related courses.
The Alfred Denny Building is home to our School of Biosciences.
It’s also home to the Alfred Denny Museum, which contains specimens of animals from across the globe and letters from Charles Darwin written to Henry Denny (Alfred Denny’s father).
The Disability and Dyslexia Support Service provide support to students who have an impairment or condition that can make it difficult to undertake study-related tasks.
The Hicks building is home to the Departments of Physics and Astronomy and the School of Mathematics and Statistics.
The building is named after mathematician and physicist William Hicks - the first Vice Chancellor of the University.
The Information Commons is the University’s state of the art learning centre.
It is a fully integrated learning environment combining both library and IT services, with approximately 120,000 in-demand texts, around 1,300 study spaces and over 500 PCs.
Designed by well-known Berlin architect Sauerbauch Hutton this building provides office, meeting and seminar space for History, English and Modern Languages, as well as exhibition spaces for more general use.
Previously the Victoria Wing of Sheffield's Jessop Maternity Hospital, the University has been careful to retain the look and feel of this building which is intrinsically linked with the city.
It now houses offices and practise/teaching rooms for the Department of Music.
This £81 million building – our largest ever investment in teaching and learning – has created a fantastic place for modern interdisciplinary teaching.
As well as containing specialist Engineering facilities the building houses a range of lecture theatres, seminar rooms, open-plan learning spaces, library services and social spaces available to all students.
Our main city accommodation site is Allen Court which is conveniently located to our campus and to the city centre.
St George’s was built in 1821.
It was purchased and converted into a lecture theatre by the University in 1994, following its closure several years earlier.
It also provides accommodation for some students on the upper level.
Mappin Street houses the Frederick Mappin Building, a grade II listed building is named after Sir Frederick Mappin, who was one of the key instigators in the creation of the University.
It now houses the Faculty of Engineering along with the Sir Henry Stephenson and Sir Robert Hatfield Buildings.
Among other buildings, Mappin Street is also home to the School of Journalism, Media and Communication, a building that houses state-of-the-art broadcast studios, multimedia newsrooms, breakout spaces, bright new offices, and a  common room.
For more information about getting here, park and ride and places to stay, see our information for visitors pages.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/education/lifelong-learning/events:
Talking to us is one of the best ways to get a feel for lifelong learning and to hear answers to any questions you may have.
We'd love to meet you at one of our events, open days, taster workshops or other events we're attending.
If you’re considering a return to education, we’d love to welcome you at one of our events where we’ll answer any questions you have.
Attend our Discover course to get a taste of life as a mature student.
Join us for a tour of the Western Bank Library.
Get a flavour of some of the subjects and themes we teach as part of our foundation year courses.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/countries/european-union/eu/visitus/bookavisit:
If you have any questions or queries please get in touch with us, you can find out more about being a Sheffield student by talking to one of our Student Ambassadors or get more information specific to your country or region by contacting a member of the team.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/2026:
This page shows an A-Z list of undergraduate courses starting in the academic year 2026-2027 .
You can also search all available courses .
Returning to education?
Lifelong learning runs degrees with a foundation year for people who don't have the usual qualifications.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/2025:
This page shows an A-Z list of undergraduate courses starting in the academic year 2025-2026 .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/courses/2025:
This page shows an A-Z list of postgraduate taught courses starting in the academic year 2025-2026 .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/courses/distance-learning:
Advance your career from any location with an internet connection.
Our postgraduate distance learning courses give you access to internationally renowned academics and innovative learning materials.
Drawing on your own experiences as a professional educator, you will gain a deep understanding of applied educational research methods and acquire the skills to be a critical researcher.
Guided by expert staff, you'll also choose your own independent research project.
Enhance your professional performance by developing a deeper understanding of planning, teaching and assessment strategies, new technologies and links between practice, theory and research.
This online, part-time course supports practising healthcare professionals aspiring to work in the clinical research delivery workforce.
At the University of Sheffield, you'll learn from leading experts in the field, all while enjoying the flexibility to fit your studies around your professional commitments.
Develop your research, evaluation, and analytical skills to understand the social determinants of health with our online course.
Accredited by the Agency for Public Health Education Accreditation (APHEA), this program offers a flexible approach to advancing your expertise in public health.
Become a specialist in treating patients with vision and ocular motility issues.
This is the only vision and strabismus course for eye care practitioners that is taught entirely online.
Develop the skills and knowledge a professional statistician needs to solve problems in a range of industries.
Develop your understanding of a variety of statistical techniques and explore the mathematical concepts, models and tools of the finance industry.
This course is for library and information professionals at any stage of their career who are seeking to enhance their professional skills and knowledge.
You’ll critically reflect on and develop your own professional practice, while engaging with the latest research and practice in the field.
Learn from internationally-renowned academics and use innovative learning materials.
Resources could include: specially commissioned learning materials, books, journals and multimedia resources.
Stay in regular contact with tutors and other students from all over the world through email, forums and discussions.
Advance your career while you work.
Study anywhere in the world, and at a time that suits you.
Search all available postgraduate taught courses

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/medicine/intercalation:
Enhance your undergraduate Medicine studies at the University of Sheffield.
We welcome applications from internal and external medical students to study either a BSc Medical Sciences (Research) or a BSc Medical Sciences (Surgery).
You could also choose an intercalated masters degree.
Intercalation is an opportunity to delve deeper into a specialism that interests you.
You'll get the opportunity to enhance your research skills, critical scientific thinking and academic writing.
Chose from our current intercalated BSc courses which include a mixture of teaching and extended research projects.
If you've completed at least three years of your medical degree you can study from our wide range of masters courses.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/countries/european-union/eu:
Welcome to students from the EU.
Current students tell us about their time in Sheffield.
We have a number of official representatives of the University of Sheffield in Europe.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/parents:
Supporting your child through university is an exciting, sometimes daunting, journey.
From guidance on making that important decision, to helping them adjust to a new way of living and studying, we will guide you through the process.
Discover a Russell Group university with a welcoming community in an affordable student city.
Find out what Sheffield is like at our next open day.
Receive helpful information about undergraduate fees, funding, wellbeing, the application process and so much more.
Join our weekly online sessions to get an insight into different aspects of University life.
We've pulled together all the information you need to help guide you through the application process
We have a global reputation for exceptional teaching, impactful research and an outstanding student experience.
A major city with a strong sense of community.
As one of the safest and most affordable cities in the UK, Sheffield is a great place for student life.
Sheffield graduates are an asset to any employer.
We help students work out what they want to do and how to get there.
Find out how you can support your child as they move into University accommodation.
Funding university
Scholarships are available to help fund your child's study and enhance their learning experience.
Scholarships
As a student at the University of Sheffield, your child will have access to a wide range of support and opportunities to help them while they study with us.
There are three main exam periods for the typical undergraduate student: autumn, spring, and resits.
There are differences between your relationship with the University and the one you had with schools.
Student confidentiality
An outline of the student support services available whilst your child is at University.
Student support

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit:
Are you interested in undergraduate study and want to visit us?
We’d love to meet you!
We have lots of on-campus and online events throughout the academic year that you could get involved with.
Before you make your application you'll have the chance to attend our on-campus open days, which usually take place between June and November.
Come and visit our campus, city and student accommodation on a student led tour.
Once you've been made an offer, we’ll invite you to an offer holder day.
You'll get to see more of your chosen department, meet staff and students and learn more about your course.
Our Sheffield Live sessions take place online every Wednesday and cover different aspects of University life.
There'll be workshops on writing your personal statements and we'll share tips for applying to Russell Group universities and competitive courses.
Our online subject taster sessions help you experience what it is like to study at the University of Sheffield.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/campus-tours:
Get a feel for student life at Sheffield, guided by one of our student ambassadors.
Visit the main university buildings, student accommodation and sports facilities.
If you can’t make an open day or an offer holder day, campus tours are a great way to get an idea of what it’s like to study here.
The main tour takes in our award-winning Students’ Union, library facilities, and some of our larger academic buildings.
You can also extend your tour to take in our award-winning student accommodation or our sports facilities.
Our tours can last up to a full afternoon, which does involve a fair amount of walking, inside and outside.
Please wear comfortable shoes and dress for the weather.
Campus tours don’t include course talks or visits to specific academic departments.
To find out more about your course or department, we recommend attending an open day , an offer holder day , or one of our online subject information sessions .
Please let us know on the booking form if you have any mobility or accessibility requirements.
We have a step-free campus tour route and can arrange a tour of a ground floor accessible room at our student accommodation with advance notice.
Please be aware that Sheffield is quite a hilly city and our tours cover a fair amount of ground - around a mile or so for the main campus tour.
If you’ve come by car, it would be possible to drive to our student accommodation for the accommodation tour, or we may be able to make alternative arrangements.
If you’d like to discuss your requirements with us first, please contact the Campus Tour team by telephone ( 0114 222 9872 ) or email ( myday@sheffield.ac.uk ).
Join a campus tour, led by one of our team of student ambassadors.
Book a campus tour
How to get here, where to park, when to arrive, and what to expect on the day.
Read the campus tour FAQs
Attend one of our on-campus open days to see what Sheffield is like before you make your application.
These usually take place between June and November.
Book an open day
If you've been made an offer, you’ll be invited to an offer holder day.
You’ll see more of your chosen department and get to speak to staff and students to learn more about your course.
These days often include sample lectures or demonstrations.
Learn more about offer holder days
Designed to help year 12 and 13 students and mature learners experience what it's like to study at university.
Subject tasters are available from October to December and February to July.
View the next on-campus and online sessions
Explore the Sheffield campus at your own pace with an audio guide to the main buildings, provided by some of our recent graduates.
Take a self-guided tour
Accompany our student vloggers on a video tour of our campus, facilities, accommodation and the city of Sheffield.
Take a virtual tour
Taking place every Wednesday, these online information sessions include in-depth subject talks and student panels on various aspects of university life at Sheffield.
View upcoming Sheffield Live sessions
If you have any further questions or queries, get in touch with the Campus Tour team:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/offer-holder:
Once you've been made an offer, we'll invite you to an on-campus offer holder day.
You’ll take part in subject activities, meet staff and students and learn more about your course.
You'll also receive invitations for online activities delivered by your subject and central university services.
Offer holder days are for those currently holding offers for undergraduate courses at the University of Sheffield.
To book your place : follow the link in your invitation email.
Whether it's your first trip to Sheffield or not, the offer holder day provides a great opportunity to spend time with your subject area, gain a greater insight into your course, and take a closer look at the fantastic facilities and support services that form part of your wider Sheffield experience.
Much more than just a one-hour course talk, many subjects will offer taster lectures or seminars, extended Q&A sessions or panels with current students.
Some subjects may offer lab tours or demonstrations.
There will be opportunities for 1:1 conversations with subject staff and current students.
Discover why Sheffield offers one of the best student experiences in the UK at the central exhibition.
Find out everything you need to know about Sheffield including study abroad opportunities, student finances, sport and societies, disability support and more.
Pick up guides, talk to the experts and explore the ways we can support your time at Sheffield.
The best way to find out about our world-class facilities is to see them for yourself.
Take student-led tours of our campus and facilities - from our top-voted Students’ Union to our world-class libraries and outstanding sports facilities.
Free bus tours of our award-winning accommodation are also available.
For a more detailed schedule, please see the offer holder day guide .
For answers to frequently asked questions about the day, visit the offer holder day FAQs .
The Access+ Travel Bursary is available to eligible students who are travelling to attend an offer holder day.
Your offer holder day guide
Offer holder day FAQs
Find an undergraduate course

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/talk-sheffield:
If you've applied for an undergraduate course and have questions about university life, use our Talk to Sheffield chat service.
Have you applied for an undergraduate course at Sheffield and want to find out more?
You can book a 15-minute chat with our UK Student Recruitment team and Access Service to discuss what it's like to be a student at the University of Sheffield.
UK applicants can book an appointment with the members of staff below.
All sessions are recorded for safeguarding purposes.
International applicants can book an appointment with the dedicated Regional Manager for their country/region.
International applicants book now
Book a chat with Lydia
Book a chat with Hannah
Book a chat with Alishba
Book a chat with Sophie
Book a chat with Seetal
Search for an undergraduate course

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/requirements:
This page provides an overview of the standard requirements for entry to the University.
This includes academic requirements, designed to ensure students are capable of succeeding on their chosen course, and general requirements that apply to everyone.
You must be proficient in written and spoken English, normally demonstrated by grade 4 or grade C or above in GCSE English Language or an acceptable English language qualification .
Because of the nature of certain subject areas, some courses require higher levels of achievement in English Language, or achievement in other GCSEs (for example GCSE Mathematics).
Details of any additional GCSE requirements are included in our course entry requirements, available in our online undergraduate prospectus .
We welcome applications from students studying a range of UK, European and international qualifications at Level 3 or above that offer suitable preparation for study at the University.
Details of the qualifications that we consider for entry can be found on the following pages:
All courses require you to achieve certain grades in your qualifications, and some require prior study and knowledge of specific subjects.
Individual course entry requirements are listed in our online undergraduate prospectus .
The entry requirements listed in our paper prospectus may change.
You should check the online prospectus for up-to-date information before you submit your application.
Entry requirements for some courses may also change for late applicants (those applying after the January UCAS deadline).
We offer a range of foundation years which offer guaranteed progression to our degree courses upon successful completion.
For engineering and some science courses, we offer foundation years designed to provide the science preparation necessary for entry.
Science and Engineering Foundation Year
Through Lifelong Learning, we also offer foundation courses in a range of other subjects designed for students who have non-standard qualifications, who have had a sustained period out of education or whose studies have been significantly disrupted.
Degrees with a Foundation Year
International students can apply for an International Foundation Year programme at the University of Sheffield International College.
Upon successful completion, students can progress to an undergraduate degree.
The University requires all applicants to be capable of undertaking a period of high-level study leading to a degree qualification.
Our Fitness to Study Policy
We have specific procedures for the declaration of criminal convictions.
Courses in medicine, dentistry, speech science, orthoptics and social work also require you to undergo a full Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
Criminal convictions procedures and DBS check requirements

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/application:
Applications for undergraduate courses should be submitted via the UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) website:
Full instructions on how to apply are available on the UCAS website.
If you're still at school or college in England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland, please ask your teachers for advice on the UCAS application process.
The UCAS code for the University of Sheffield is S18 SHEFD .
There's no campus code.
If you need to contact UCAS directly, you can do so by phone, email or social media:
UCAS contact details
Before completing your UCAS application form, please check the University's admissions requirements:
University of Sheffield admissions requirements
Applications for undergraduate degree courses starting in September 2026 should be submitted between:
2 September 2025 and 14 January 2026 to be guaranteed equal consideration with other applicants
15 January and 30 June 2026 for further consideration, although we may not be able to consider your application if all the places on the course you've applied for have been filled
If you're applying for entry to the MBChB Medicine or the BDS Dental Surgery, you should submit your application by 15 October 2025.
If you don't want to begin your studies straight away, you can defer your entry for a year.
For example, you could apply in autumn 2025 for entry in September 2027.
We welcome applications for deferred entry, and treat them on an equal basis with other applications.
Applications for deferred entry are considered under the conditions for entry in the UCAS application year in which they're submitted, and applicants must satisfy these conditions by the end of that application year.
If you're applying for entry in September 2027, for example, you must have met the conditions of your offer by 2 September 2026 (31 August for Medicine and Dentistry).
We're happy to consider applications for entry to the second year of an undergraduate course.
You should normally have met the Sheffield course's standard A Level requirements (or equivalent).
You should also show us that you've undertaken and successfully completed a programme of study equivalent to the first year of the course that you're applying for.
We reserve the right to determine whether you've covered an equivalent area of study.
In assessing this we may ask you to provide further information on your studies to date, including course syllabuses.
Please note that some departments do not accept any transfers into Year/Level 2.
If you've experienced issues of a personal, social or domestic nature that have affected your post-16 studies, you can let us know by completing our Disrupted Studies form:
Offers of a place are made in good faith by the University and are based on the information you provide at any point during the application process.
False statements or omissions of relevant information may lead to the withdrawal of an offer or a place.
Further information is available on the UCAS website when you apply.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/assess:
We look for students who are motivated and inquisitive, and have the necessary academic preparation and personal attributes to benefit from the University's learning environment.
Your application will be assessed primarily, but not solely, by reference to your prior and predicted academic achievements.
It will be individually assessed by experienced admissions staff who have been appropriately trained and can exercise discretion in interpreting the range of evidence you have provided.
In assessing your application, we may consider:
We take account of other available information, to give ourselves as complete a picture as possible of your potential to succeed on our courses:
For details of the contextual information we consider in the application process, and more information about additional consideration and alternative offers, see our Access Sheffield pages.
For most courses interviews are not a prerequisite for admission, but some departments interview to further assess the motivation and personal qualities of applicants.
Departments which interview include Medicine, Dentistry, Orthoptics, Human Communication Science (for entry to Speech Science) and Social Work.
Other departments may also interview applicants.
Departments which interview will provide a clear explanation of the reasons for, and structure of, the interview.
We aim to process decisions as quickly as possible.
However, given the volume and quality of applications we receive, we're not always able to make a decision immediately.
At busy times of the application cycle, particularly towards the October and January deadlines, there may be delays processing applications, both at UCAS and within the University.
Where we're not able to make a decision for some time, we'll contact you to explain the situation.
Some departments don't begin considering applications until after the 15 January deadline.
Departments which interview will not make a decision until the interviews have taken place.
In both cases, you should receive a letter or email from the department explaining the procedure.
When we've made our decision, we transmit this to UCAS.
You can view the status of your application through the UCAS Hub .
We'll also send you an email to let you know that we've made our decision.
If we've made you an offer, this email will confirm the details of the course on which we've offered you a place, and include information about course content and tuition fees.
All our offers are made by trained admissions selectors/tutors.
We're committed to making offers that are appropriate to each applicant and therefore selectors have the discretion to formulate and vary the level of offers.
We make offers wherever we believe an applicant is capable of benefitting from, and successfully completing, the course.
All offers are subject to our Terms and Conditions .
We only make Unconditional offers to applicants who have already met all the academic requirements for entry to their chosen course.
We believe that Unconditional offers for those who haven't yet sat their exams are not in the best interest of applicants, with UCAS research showing that those holding them are more likely to miss their predicted grades.
By achieving your best in your exams, you'll be well prepared for the demands of degree-level study, and you'll be giving yourself the best chance of success at whatever you choose to do after your degree.
Most offers will be based upon the portfolio of qualifications being taken in Year 13 or the last year of secondary education, and will normally be conditional upon achievement in three A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
We recognise that some UK schools and colleges may not be able to offer their students the required range of qualifications and subjects.
If this is the case for you, please ask your school or college to indicate any limitations in provision in the reference part of your UCAS application.
We understand that some applicants may have had their number of A Level subjects restricted through specific personal circumstances.
If this is the case for you, you should contact us as early as possible to discuss the suitability of your qualifications and the circumstances that have impacted on your studies.
Offers may also be conditional on other, non-academic, conditions such as the receipt of a satisfactory Disclosure and Barring Service check.
We're keen to ensure that all our applicants have an equal opportunity to demonstrate their skills, their achievements and their potential.
If you're from a group currently under-represented in higher education, you've participated in one of our outreach programmes, or you've taken additional qualifications to supplement your Level 3 studies, you may be eligible for an alternative offer equivalent to one or two grades below the standard A Level entry requirements for your course.
More information is available on our Access Sheffield pages .
If you have any questions about your offer you should contact the Admissions Service .
Once you've been made an offer, we'll invite you to an on-campus offer holder day .
We feel it is important that unsuccessful applicants have the opportunity to receive feedback on their application.
However, it's not possible to provide every applicant with feedback, so we only provide feedback in response to requests made to the Admissions Service .
Once feedback has been issued, we may not be able to respond to additional requests for information on the same application.
We recognise that there may be occasions when applicants wish to make a complaint about the way in which their application has been treated.
Where applicants feel they may have a cause for complaint, they are invited to consult our formal Appeals and Complaints Procedure for Applicants .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/results:
For all applicants, we require evidence of the qualifications upon which the offer of a place is based.
If you're taking one of the following qualifications, and you'll complete your exams after you have applied to the University, UCAS should provide us with your results automatically.
Where UCAS don't provide us with your results, you'll need to supply them to us yourself by emailing confirmresults@sheffield.ac.uk .
If you have paper certificates/transcripts, please attach to your email high quality scanned colour copies or colour photographs.
If your exam board offers an online qualifications verification service, please also grant the University of Sheffield access to this.
If your exam board doesn't have an online verification service, we may ask them to send an official email confirming your qualifications to confirmresults@sheffield.ac.uk .
If you supply your results yourself, we may ask you to present the original paper copies of your transcripts/certificates when you come to register at the University.
We'll email you to let you know if we need you to do this.
Official translations of qualifications documents are also a requirement of the UK government's visa regulations.
The translation should be on official letter-headed paper, clearly state that it is an accurate translation of the original, and include all of the following pieces of information:
The translation should be done by an official translator/translation service.
We won't accept translations by agents unless the agency offers a recognised translation service and the translator can demonstrate appropriate credentials, for example NAATI, CATTI or NAETI.
English language modules studied as part of the agent's degree course, for example TEM-4 or TEM-8, are not considered appropriate credentials.
If you narrowly fail to satisfy the academic conditions of our offer, we may still be able to confirm your place.
This will depend on whether we have any places left on the course you've applied for, any extenuating circumstances that may have impacted on your studies, and whether we believe you're sufficiently prepared for the course.
If there are places remaining once the bulk of results have been received in August, your application will be reviewed by the Admissions Tutor in the light of your final results.
If you fail to satisfy the academic conditions of your offer and we can't confirm your place, or if you change your mind about the course you want to study at Sheffield, you have the option to search our vacancies and apply through Clearing.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/tuition-fees-2025:
An overview of fees and costs if you're starting your undergraduate studies in September 2025.
We will confirm information for 2026 entry soon.
In common with other UK universities, the University of Sheffield charges different tuition fees depending on whether students are classed as home or overseas for fee purposes.
Overseas fees
If you are an overseas student or are unsure whether you are classed as one, you will need to find out about your fee status.
Fee status
If you choose to study abroad, spend a year in employment, or a year in industry, your fee may be reduced.
If you are paying your own tuition fees, please find out more in the Payment plans: Self-funded students section of these pages:
Home fee-paying students may be able to get a loan from the government to cover the full cost of your tuition fees for each year of your course.
You can also apply for a maintenance loan to contribute towards your living costs.
Government loans
You'll also need to consider the costs associated with studying at university and plan your budgets accordingly using our money tools .
There are a range of funding sources available to help you cover your living costs:
Government loans and support
Fees and funding for international students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/funding/living-costs:
Before coming to university, it’s important to consider the costs associated with university life.
Before you work out how you are going to spend your money, you will need to understand what level of income you are going to have.
As a student, you may receive income from a range of sources, including funding from the government (home fee-paying students), bursaries (home fee-paying students), scholarships, family or friends, your own savings, or a part-time job.
You can visit our funding web pages or use our Student Funding Calculator to help you work out how much you may be entitled to if you haven’t done this already.
Undergraduate fees and funding
Funding for postgraduate taught courses
Student Funding Calculator
Your living costs will vary depending on your lifestyle but we do have some guidance to help you work out what your own expenses may look like.
It's important to be aware that prices may change during your studies for a range of reasons, such as the rate of inflation or due to increased demand.
If you are moving away from home, the cost of accommodation is a really important factor to consider when looking at your finances.
Most students are guaranteed a room in our University accommodation, as long as they apply before the deadline.
Your rent covers your utility bills, contents insurance and internet.
There is a range of accommodation to choose from to suit different budgets; rent figures can be found online.
University of Sheffield accommodation - rents
A TV Licence is not included in your rent and you should check whether you need to pay for one.
TV Licence
Money Saving Expert - Do I need a TV licence?
You can also choose to live in private accommodation; many students choose to do this after their first year of university.
Smart Move Sheffield is run by the University and all properties on their search facility have been inspected by Sheffield City Council.
Remember, if you choose to live in private accommodation, your bills may not be included - make sure you factor this into your budgeting.
Smart Move Sheffield
Even if you are planning to live at home, your family may be expecting you to contribute financially - make sure you discuss this with them before planning your budget!
Depending on where you live, you may need to catch public transport to travel to University.
If you are planning to commute via train, consider whether it would save you money to buy a railcard.
It’s worth noting that some student bank accounts may include this when you open a student bank account with them - please refer to the section subtitled ‘ Opening a student bank account ’ for more information.
16-25 Railcard
There are also a range of student tickets for the bus and tram in Sheffield that may be suitable for you.
Find out more information on the local travel websites.
Travel South Yorkshire - Student tickets and passes
First Bus - Students
Stagecoach - Student bus tickets for Sheffield
Supertram - Tram tickets and prices
When looking at the type of student tickets you can purchase, consider how often you will need to be on campus - remember that our University accommodation is within walking distance!
You can earn rewards for travelling to the University on foot, by bike or by using public transport using the BetterPoints app.
BetterPoints
If you commute by car, you may also want to consider car sharing: you could share with a coursemate or check out apps like Spareseat, a ride-sharing app for UK students.
You could also use an app like this when planning journeys to family or friends.
Spareseat
For clarification about what is included in your tuition fee and what costs are excluded from this that you may need to consider, you can find out more information on our website.
Tuition fees and additional costs
Don’t forget that you may be able to use University resources to help reduce costs, ie check the University Library’s catalogue for textbooks you may need for your course which may be available to borrow at no cost.
You could also check out book shops or online stores to see if textbooks are available second-hand.
You may also find it useful to visit your department or course page to check for details of any specific costs.
You should also consider any other costs, such as food, toiletries, clothes, laundry, social activities, your mobile phone and insurance.
If you have children, childcare costs or nursery fees also fall into this category.
Costs can vary depending on where you shop, what you buy, and the other ways that you spend your money.
Save the Student publish the results of their annual National Student Money Survey, providing figures for expected average living costs based on information that current students have provided.
Some key average costs are highlighted below:
Please refer to their website for more details about the figures and tips and advice on spending.
Save the Student - Student living costs in the UK 2025
Tips:
Money Saving Expert - Supermarket shopping tips
Which?
- Supermarket price comparison
University of Sheffield accommodation - Community Fridge
Community Fridge Network Map
GeniUS reward scheme
Swap Shop
NHS Low Income Scheme
NHS Prescription Prepayment Certificate (PPC)
Save the Student - Student contents insurance
If you are an international student, you will also need to consider additional costs, such as those for a visa or travel to another country.
The British Council provides some information on their website for international students considering coming to the UK to study.
British Council - Cost of studying and living in the UK
Once you know your income and have considered what outgoings you are going to have, you can start to plan your budget in more detail.
When making a budget, it’s important to work out what you need to spend your money on first before considering what you may want to spend your money on.
If you find that your outgoings exceed your income, consider whether this can be increased, eg through part-time work, or whether you can reduce your expenditure in some areas.
Know your income
Costs
We have a Money Planner that you can use to help you with your budgeting.
Alternatively, your bank may have a tool you can use or there are various platforms online that have budgeting tools available; there is also a lot of great support online to help you with budgeting and provide advice on how to be financially savvy.
Money Saving Expert
Save the Student
Blackbullion (you will need to register to access articles on this site)
It's also important to consider what you may do in the case of an unforeseen issue or emergency: having some emergency savings helps you to prepare for unexpected expenses, so we'd encourage you to account for putting some money away into savings on a regular basis within your budget if you can.
Student bank accounts are designed for those in higher education.
It’s worth checking out what is available as student bank accounts can often include benefits which can really help you out.
Sites like Money Helper, Money Saving Expert and Save the Student have useful web pages to help you compare the accounts that are available.
Money Helper - Student and graduate bank accounts
Money Saving Expert - Student bank accounts
Save the Student - Best student bank accounts
If you do change your bank account, remember to keep your student finance details updated so that any money you’re expecting goes to the right place!
The offers available to international students may vary so check terms and conditions for full details.
Save the Student - Top UK bank accounts for international students
Student discounts are offers on a product or service that are only available to students.
Usually you will need to show a student ID or Totum card, or sign up using a university email address.
Totum
You can find student discounts at a range of shops and services, including streaming services such as Spotify.
Have a look online to see what’s available - if in doubt, ask!
Money Saving Expert - Student discounts and deals
Save the Student - Student discounts
Student Beans
UNiDAYS
The University provides information and updates from the University in response to the rising cost of living.
Find out more information about all the support on offer from the University and Students’ Union on the University web pages, including details about free facilities and Students’ Union offers and discounts.
Cost of living support for students
Scams can come in many forms but generally they involve someone trying to steal something (often money) from you.
It’s important that you know how to spot the signs of a scam and the most effective methods to protect yourself and your money.
The University has some information for our students about protecting yourself from scams on our web pages.
Protecting yourself from scams and fraud
Money Helper also has a really helpful beginner’s guide to scams.
Money Helper - A beginner’s guide to scams
You may also find the following information useful:
The latest edition of the Student Money Matters magazine by the National Association of Student Money Advisers (NASMA) can be found on their web pages: this usually includes articles related to student finance, budgeting, and managing your money.
Student Money Matters
If you need to discuss your financial situation with someone, you can contact the Student Advice Centre in the Students' Union (both prospective students with an offer and current students).
Student Advice Centre
They have also provided some useful money management information online, available to all.
Student Advice Centre - Money Management
If you are a prospective student and have any other general enquiries, you can find out more information about the different ways of contacting us on this web page .
Money tools
Additional funding for undergraduate study
Additional funding for postgraduate study

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/funding/calculator:
Using a few details, we'll estimate how much money you could get towards your study and living costs, and suggest funding that you may be eligible for.
If you are a current student, please refer to the previous Student Funding Calculators on the Student Hub (student login required).

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/loans:
Government loans are available for eligible home fee-paying undergraduate students to cover tuition fees and contribute towards living costs.
Key points
The information on this page relates to the academic year 2025-2026 for Student Finance England .
Information for the academic year 2026-2027 will be added when available.
Students from the devolved nations can find out more information from the websites below:
Wales - Student Finance Wales
Northern Ireland - Student Finance Northern Ireland
Scotland - Student Awards Agency Scotland
You can check your tuition fees by using the University’s undergraduate fees lookup tool.
Undergraduate fees lookup
You can find out more information about tuition fees on our web page.
Undergraduate tuition fees
Eligible home fee-paying students can apply for a tuition fee loan from the UK government to cover the cost of their fees.
For students from England, the agency is Student Finance England.
Part-time students may be able to get a loan if their course has a ‘course intensity’ of 25% or more (‘course intensity’ means how long your course takes to complete each year compared to an equivalent full-time course); the majority of part-time undergraduate courses at the University of Sheffield are studied at 50% intensity.
The government website has a full list of eligibility criteria.
Gov.uk - Student finance for undergraduates - Eligibility
The tuition fee loan is not based on household income.
You will need to reapply for a tuition fee loan each year.
The University will review tuition fees each year and they may increase for each year of your study in line with inflation (RPIX), as specified by parliament.
However, if there is an increase, the tuition fee loan available will automatically increase to reflect any changes.
For more information about how to apply for your loan, refer to the government website.
Gov.uk - Student finance for undergraduates - How to apply
Each year you take out the loan, the government pays the money directly to the University in three instalments.
The first instalment is paid after you register with us.
NHS funding may be available if you’re studying to become a doctor or dentist and you’re studying a five or six-year undergraduate course (you can apply from year five).
NHS funding
Eligible home fee-paying students can apply for a maintenance loan from the UK government to contribute towards their living costs.
The amount of maintenance loan that you receive will depend on your household income .
For more information about household income, refer to the government website.
Gov.uk - Student finance for undergraduates - Household income
The amount you receive also depends on where you are going to university (whether this is in London or not) and whether you will be living at home or away from home .
Students aged 60 or over on the first day of their course may receive reduced maintenance support.
The maximum amount available for the academic year 2025-2026 for full-time students studying at a university outside of London and away from home is £10,544 per year.
You can use the government’s student finance calculator to estimate what you could receive.
Gov.uk - Student finance calculator
You will need to reapply for a maintenance loan each year.
For more information about how to do this, refer to the government website.
Each year you take out the loan, the government pays the money directly to you in three instalments.
You will receive slightly less in your final year of study because the Student Loans Company stops paying you after the last day of term.
Gov.uk - Student finance for undergraduates - Continuing full-time students
Loan repayments will usually commence from the April after course completion at the earliest and only when your income is over the repayment threshold set by the government.
For more information, refer to the government website.
Gov.uk - Repaying your student loan - When you start repaying
Your tuition and maintenance loans are added together so you make one monthly payment.
Your repayments will be taken out of your salary at the same time as tax and National Insurance if you’re an employee.
Your payslips will show how much has been deducted.
If you're self-employed, you'll pay through HM Revenue and Customs.
Gov.uk - Repaying your student loan - How to repay
How much you repay depends on your income.
You’ll repay a percentage of your income over the repayment threshold set by the government.
For students from England starting their studies on or after 1 August 2023, the current repayment threshold is £25,000.
Your monthly payments will be calculated as 9% of income above the repayment threshold.
Your repayments are based on what you earn, not what you owe.
If your wages drop, this is reflected in your repayments.
For example, using the current repayment threshold for students from England who start their studies from August 2023 onwards, if you earn £30,000, you will repay 9% of the £5,000 you earn above the £25,000 threshold (£450.00 per year or £37.50 per month).
Further details on repayments can be found on the government website.
Gov.uk - Repaying your student loan
You can choose to make extra repayments towards your student loan.
Gov.uk - Repaying your student loan - Make extra repayments
For students from England starting their studies on or after 1 August 2023, loans are written off 40 years after the April you were first due to repay.
You’re charged interest from the day your first student finance payment is made to you or to your university until your loan has been repaid in full or cancelled.
Interest is added to your balance each month.
The interest rate on loans for students from England starting their studies on or after 1 August 2023 will be based on the Retail Price Index (RPI).
During some periods, an interest cap may be applied to ensure you’re not being charged a higher interest rate than the average found in the commercial market.
Gov.uk - How interest is calculated - Plan 5
If you are a student parent, carer, have adult dependants, or have a disability, then you may qualify for extra funding.
As a reminder, the information on this page relates to Student Finance England .
Full-time home fee-paying students with children in registered or approved childcare may be eligible to apply for a Childcare Grant to help with these costs.
Gov.uk - Childcare Grant
You may also be eligible for a Parent's Learning Allowance to help with course related costs.
Gov.uk - Parents’ Learning Allowance
Both the grant and the allowance are based on your household income, are paid on top of your other student finance, and you do not have to pay the money back.
Apply as part of your main student finance application.
Full-time home fee-paying students with an adult who depends on you financially may be eligible to apply for the Adult Dependants’ Grant.
Gov.uk - Adult Dependants’ Grant
The grant is based on your household income, is paid on top of other student finance, and doesn’t have to be paid back.
If you have a disability or specific learning difficulty, such as dyslexia, you can apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA).
This can be on its own or in addition to any student finance you get, though you must at least be eligible to receive student finance.
The type of support and how much you get depends on your individual needs - not your household income.
For part-time students, your ‘course intensity’ can affect how much DSA you get (‘course intensity’ means how long your course takes to complete each year compared to an equivalent full-time course).
Gov.uk - Disabled Students’ Allowance
Full-time students can apply as part of their main student finance application.
Part-time students will need to fill in a form.
Find out more information on the government website.
Gov.uk - Disabled Students’ Allowance - How to apply
More information about the support available for disabled students at the University of Sheffield can be found on the Disability and Dyslexia Support Service (DDSS) web pages.
Disability and Dyslexia Support Service (DDSS)
If you are travelling abroad as part of your studies with us, you can find out more information on the Global Opportunities web pages about the support available.
Global Opportunities - Funding and finances
Students who are undertaking a placement year/year in industry can find out more information about funding on our web pages.
Funding on a placement year
Guidance about additional funding and how to manage your money can be found on our web pages.
If you are a prospective student and have any other general enquiries, find out more about how you can contact us .
Undergraduate scholarships
Bursaries

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/scholarships:
Scholarships are available to help fund your study and enhance your learning experience.
We're working with the Unite Foundation to offer free accommodation for up to three years of study to students who are from care.
Care leavers accommodation scholarships
We're working with the Unite Foundation to offer free accommodation for up to three years of study to students who are estranged.
Estranged students accommodation scholarships
Many departments offer scholarships, some of them sponsored by industry.
Check course listings and department websites to find out if they are offering anything for students starting in your year.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/bursaries:
If you're a home fee-paying student on a course that attracts undergraduate funding, you might qualify for a bursary.
You don't have to pay this money back unless your circumstances change.
A bursary is money from the University and it doesn’t have to be paid back.
It’s in addition to government funding.
The information on this page relates to 2025 entry, we will confirm information for 2026 soon.
If you are a current student, please refer to the details about bursaries for previous years’ entry on the Student Hub.
Bursaries (student login required)
If eligible, you'll receive this bursary for each year of your course, including a year spent studying abroad should you choose to do this.
We use the details you submit to Student Finance England or equivalent assessing agency (for undergraduate means-tested maintenance support) and UCAS to assess your entitlement for the University of Sheffield Bursary Scheme.
You do not need to apply for this bursary.
If you’re eligible, we'll email you after you start your course and you will receive the awards as detailed below.
The first instalment will be paid within the first term, usually during October or November.
Exact payment dates will be confirmed in a bursary confirmation email.
If you think you are eligible to receive a bursary but have not been contacted by the start of November , please contact us.
Bursaries are subject to change each year.
To be considered for the University of Sheffield Bursary Scheme, you must be eligible for and have applied to Student Finance England (or equivalent regional funding body) to receive a tuition fee loan and maintenance loan via the undergraduate funding system.
If you do not wish to take out a loan, you can still apply for a household income assessment to be carried out by Student Finance England (or equivalent regional funding body) and request a £0 loan - this allows us to assess you for the bursary without you receiving any loan.
The University of Sheffield Bursary Scheme is split into three main areas.
You may be eligible for more than one of these but you can only receive either point 2 or 3, not both - so the maximum award available is £1,250.
1.
You'll automatically receive this bursary if your household income is £40,000 or less.
2.
If your household income is £25,000 a year or less and you live in one of the country’s most deprived areas (as defined by the government), you'll receive £250 a year.
Or
3.
If you live within the Sheffield City Region, in an area where it’s not common for people to go to university, and you achieve ABB (or higher) at A Level or equivalent, you'll receive £250 a year.
This award does not take household income into account.
Use our Student Funding Calculator to estimate how much you could receive.
We reserve the right to reclaim any awards that students are no longer eligible for.
For full terms and conditions, please refer to our web page.
Full bursary terms and conditions
If you think you are eligible to receive a bursary but have not been contacted by the start of November, please contact us.
Contact the Student Fees and Funding Team (student login required)
If you're studying a full-time Lifelong Learning course within the School of Education, you may be eligible for a bursary of up to £1,250 that is based solely on your household income.
Fees and financial support for students studying a full-time Lifelong Learning course
Students studying a part-time Lifelong Learning course within the School of Education may also be eligible for a bursary.
Fees and financial support for students studying a part-time Lifelong Learning course
The University is committed to supporting students with additional responsibilities or particular circumstances at home.
Bursaries of up to £10,000 per year of study are available depending on your circumstances, regardless of where you live and household income.
If applicable, these awards are instead of the University of Sheffield Bursary Scheme.
The following students are eligible:
Students with a household income of £40,000 or less may be eligible to apply for additional awards.
We offer scholarships to eligible home fee-paying students with a household income of £50,000 or less.
You will need to submit an application in advance of beginning your studies with us.
Find out more information on our web page.
Experience Sheffield Scholarships
We're working with our Students’ Union to provide students with funds to help with the costs of taking part in societies and other Students’ Union led activities.
Once you’re a student at the university, you can find out more details on our web page.
Participation Grant (student login required)
Global Opportunities can provide you with information about funds available to support you with your costs if you are taking a year abroad.
Global Opportunities - Scholarships for Study Abroad
Eligible students, including bursary recipients, can apply for up to £300 to reimburse expenses that relate to an employability opportunity.
Eligible opportunities include volunteering, networking and interviews.
Current students can find out more information online.
Equal Opportunities Fund (student login required)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/additional:
Information about additional funding opportunities for undergraduate students.
If you are a prospective student, make sure you’ve visited our undergraduate fees and funding hub, which includes signposting to information about government loans and support, bursaries, scholarships and funding for international students.
Undergraduate fees and funding ​
There are a range of really helpful existing websites to help you identify and search for funds available to support you with your studies - the below are only suggestions.
There are a few sites that act as a search engine for funding opportunities and may save you time searching for individual schemes.
Examples of specific funding opportunities available:
If you are looking at this page because you are undertaking a Postgraduate Diploma in Education (PGDE), which is funded by the undergraduate funding system, you can find out more information about bursaries and scholarships on the government web pages.
Get Into Teaching - Bursaries and scholarships
Many students choose to work part-time.
As well as boosting your finances, working whilst studying has a range of benefits, such as improving your employability skills.
The University recommends that students on full-time courses work no more than 16 hours per week during term time.
The University Careers and Employability Service runs the Employability & Placements Hub based in the Students’ Union and advertises a range of employment opportunities on Career Connect, the University’s job board.
Careers and Employability Service - prospective students
Careers and Employability Service - current students (student login required)
Career Connect (student login required)
There is also an Equal Opportunities Fund for current students, where, if you meet the Equal Opportunities eligibility criteria, you can apply for up to £300 per academic year to reimburse expenses incurred when taking part in an opportunity that develops your employability.
In addition, current students who have worries about affording formal clothing for upcoming job interviews, assessment centres, or a new job can get a free referral to The Suit Works, a Sheffield not-for-profit organisation that offers free outfits from their huge range of pre-loved formal wear, with clothes for all shapes, sizes, and tastes.
Just drop into the Employability and Placements Hub in the Students’ Union, where staff will help you with the referral.
It is expected that you will have secured sufficient funding before you start your course to support yourself and pay your tuition fees for the duration of your studies.
If you are a prospective student, please refer to the undergraduate fees and funding hub for signposting to information about government loans and support, bursaries, scholarships and funding for international students.
However, as a student at the University of Sheffield, there is some additional funding available to eligible students, including:
Current students can find out more about the existing funding schemes on our web pages.
Funding and financial support from the University (student login required)
In addition, leading up to the publication of undergraduate and postgraduate results, academic departments can award prizes in recognition and celebration of academic achievements.
Prizes are usually performance-based against set criteria, such as getting the top mark in a unit of study.
They often (but not always) come in the form of a monetary award, a book voucher, or a medal.
Prizes are discretionary and may not be awarded every year.
Prizes for academic achievements (student login required)
If you are a prospective student and have any other general enquiries, contact us .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/money-tools:
Our online tools will help you plan your finances and could make your money go further.
Use our online calculator to find out how much support you could get.
Our money planner is an interactive tool that allows you to generate your own budget for the year.
From the time you begin to plan your studies at University right through to your final year of study, the Money Timeline pinpoints when you can expect to receive money and how best to manage your finances.
There are key dates and resources to bear in mind when budgeting, as well as advice from graduates.
Money Timeline
If it's urgent or you can't find answers, call us on +44 114 222 9754.
We're available from 10am until 4pm, Monday to Friday; outside of these times, complete the relevant online form.
For help with bursaries, scholarships and financial support:
For general advice, support and representation:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/guarantee:
If you’re studying full time and for the full academic year, we guarantee you a safe, comfortable place to live in university accommodation with other University of Sheffield students.
For us to guarantee you a place to live, you must apply for accommodation before the deadline of September 3rd 2025.
If Sheffield is your firm choice, you can start applying from March.
Our guarantee includes students who join us through Clearing or who have chosen the University as their insurance choice, the most important thing is to submit your application before the deadline outlined in the accommodation guarantee.
Returning students
Returning international and postgraduate students are also guaranteed accommodation suitable for single occupancy, if you’re studying a full-time course lasting more than one year.
We also have an offer for returning students each year.
There are a few exceptions
Family accommodation
Demand is really high for family accommodation, and we have limited places.
If we can’t allocate you a family home, we’ll do our best to advise you, and connect you to local private accommodation providers.
Exchange and Visiting students Study bedrooms are available for students here for just one semester, but numbers are limited so apply as early as possible.
The Accommodation office will always help where we can, and we’re here to answer questions when you need us.
Call: 0114 222 4488 (option 2)
Explore your living options

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/chat:
Start a conversation, view their content or search for their answers to your questions.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/inclusion/lgbt/students:
Support, events and activities to help LGBT+ students to get the best out of their student life.
An outline of the support available for LGBT+ students within and outside the University.
There are lots of LGBT+ committees, societies and events you can get involved in during your time at university.
LGBT+ student groups and events
Sheffield has a wide variety of LGBT+ events, clubs and inclusive spaces throughout the city.
LGBT+ life in Sheffield
These guides can help you to understand topics relating to gender and sexual identity.
Stonewall: List of LGBTQ+ terms
Identiversity
We believe in celebrating, recognising and understanding LGBT+ experiences, history and culture both within and outside of Sheffield.
LGBT+ experiences and history
Find out about current LGBT+ Sheffield students' experiences.
Chat to students from our LGBT+ community

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/applying/postgraduate-taught:
We have a global reputation for excellence in learning, teaching and research.
We offer over 300 postgraduate taught courses in a wide range of subject areas including social sciences, engineering, arts and humanities, science, medicine and dentistry.
Many courses have a wide choice of modules, so you can plan your study to suit your interests and career aspirations.
It is important to apply as early as possible as demand for places on postgraduate taught Masters degree programmes often exceeds the number of places available.
You do not need to wait for final examination results or references before you apply for a study place.
You can apply for a postgraduate taught course using our Postgraduate Online Application Form .
There is no application fee to apply for Postgraduate Taught Masters degree programmes.
All postgraduate taught Masters degree programmes at the University of Sheffield begin in September each year.
We do not have an intake in January or February.
Further information can be found in our prospective postgraduates section.
High entrance requirements for postgraduate taught Masters degree programmes at Sheffield reflect the quality of the University.
The University of Sheffield has been welcoming students from all over the world for many decades and we have a lot of experience in assessing and understanding the many different international qualifications.
As part of our English language requirements , you may be required to take an internationally recognised English language test such as IELTS.
Choose your country or region to get more information on the entry requirements you will need to meet.
The University of Sheffield International College provides Pre-Masters programmes specifically for international students who want to progress to the University of Sheffield.
Upon successful completion, students can progress to an postgraduate degree.
Students can choose to study a Pre-Masters in the following subjects:
● Pre-Masters in Business, Social Sciences and Humanities
● Pre-Masters in Science and Engineering
Postgraduate Taught applying essentials

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/undergraduate-postgraduate-study:
Whether you want to further your interests in academia or set yourself up for your future career, there are lots of benefits to choosing the city you know and love for your masters.
Ready to take the next step?
Take a look at our postgraduate course listings for detailed course information, including programme duration.
Find your course
How you apply, fund, and study for a postgraduate taught degree is all very different to an undergraduate degree.
In most cases, you can simply apply for a postgraduate taught course through the University website using our Postgraduate Online Application Form.
You don’t need to have completed your undergraduate studies to apply.
If you are an international student, you can apply directly or through a representative for your postgraduate taught degree.
How to apply for postgraduate study
Student loans work differently at postgraduate level.
If you’re a home student interested in studying a postgraduate masters, you can apply for one loan that can be used towards paying your tuition fees or your living costs - it’s up to you how you choose to spend it.
Sheffield graduates may be eligible for a discount up to £2,500 on tuition fees .
We offer a range of scholarships to help afford your studies.
Take a look at our postgraduate funding hub to find the option that's right for you.
We’re committed to creating a fully inclusive environment at Sheffield.
There are dedicated networks for LGBT+ students, BAME students and those with disabilities to ensure you feel supported and can thrive throughout your studies.
Register your interest to be added to our mailing list.
We’ll keep in touch with upcoming events and more information on what it’s like to study with us.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/apply/applying:
You can apply for postgraduate study using our Postgraduate Online Application Form.
Postgraduate Online Application Form The form has comprehensive instructions for you to follow, and pop-up help is available on each page.
Direct-entry applicants to Part 2 of the RIBA-accredited MArch Architecture (undergraduate masters course) should apply using the form available on the School of Architecture's webpages:
Applying for MArch courses (RIBA Part 2)
Watch our 'Applying for postgraduate study' video to learn more about the application process at the University of Sheffield.
This 11-minute talk covers what to do before you apply, the application process itself, and what happens after you've submitted your application.
The form is divided into two parts.
Part 1 is for personal information, including English language ability, and previous education and employment.
You have to complete all of the mandatory fields in this part (marked with a *) before you can go on to Part 2.
Part 2 is where you select the course or courses you want to apply for.
You can apply for a total of three different postgraduate courses.
You'll need to include certain documents to support your application, for example evidence of your previous qualifications, and a personal statement.
You can supply these simply by uploading them to the relevant sections of your application.
You can find more information about the supporting documents you'll need, and how to supply them, on our Supporting Documents webpage:
Your application will only be submitted to us when you click the 'Submit Application' button.
If you've forgotten to fill in any sections, you'll be prompted to go back and complete them at this stage.
When you've successfully submitted the completed form, we'll confirm this on-screen.
We'll also send you an email confirmation.
If you want to apply for more than one course, you don't need to submit them all at the same time.
Each course choice has its own 'Submit Application' button.
If you have any problems completing your online application, please contact us:
See our key dates webpage for application deadlines:
Deadlines for postgraduate courses
When we've created your applicant record, we'll send you a second email to confirm this.
This email will include your applicant and choice numbers, as well as information about what happens next.
You can find more information about what happens after you submit your application, and about preparing to study at the University of Sheffield, on the After You Apply webpage:
Start a conversation with us
Applying essentials

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/apply/after:
After we receive your application, we'll create an applicant record for you.
When this is ready we'll send you an email containing your applicant and choice numbers.
You should normally receive this email within two working days.
We'll then send your application for academic consideration.
You can check the progress of your application at any time simply by logging back into your online application .
If we need to contact you we'll do so by email, so please make sure that you check the email account you used for your application, and that this account is set to trust messages coming from @shef.ac.uk and @sheffield.ac.uk addresses.
You may wish to add admissions@sheffield.ac.uk to your address book to avoid important messages being marked as spam.
If you change your email address, please let us know by emailing us at admissions@sheffield.ac.uk , including your full name and applicant number.
For most taught courses, it normally takes academic departments around four weeks to make decisions on applications.
It can take longer at busy times.
For some of our courses, we may invite you to attend an interview with staff from your academic department.
You can find information on what to expect in an interview in our guidance:
Interviews
When we've made our decision, it will appear in your online application, and we'll also send you an email to confirm this.
If we've offered you a study place, we'll provide you with an official electronic offer letter detailing any conditions and the amount payable for the tuition fees.
The offer letter will be attached to our email and also available for you to download from your online application .
If we haven't offered you a study place and you would like feedback on this decision, you should contact the academic department directly in writing.
You can find their contact details under the relevant entry in our postgraduate taught course listings.
If we make you an offer, it will be either Conditional or Unconditional.
A Conditional offer means that there are requirements that you need to meet before you can start the course, for example a certain English language score, or a minimum grade in your current studies.
An Unconditional offer means that there are no further academic requirements that you need to meet.
If we've made you a Conditional offer, the conditions will be stated in your offer letter.
When you've met these conditions, you should upload to your online application documents that prove it.
When you've met all the conditions of your offer, we'll provide you with a new, Unconditional offer letter.
The standard deadlines for meeting the conditions of your offer are provided on our key dates and deadlines page.
If this is the case for your course, it will be indicated in your offer letter.
If you have any problems attaching documents to your online application, please contact us .
We normally determine the final mark of an international degree by calculating the average of all the module marks, weighted by credit value.
For module marks assigned as a range, we use the mid-point of the range.
Note that the average we calculate may differ from the average shown on your transcript.
An Unconditional offer has no conditions.
You just need to let us know whether or not you want to accept or decline our offer of a study place.
In most cases, you can accept or decline the offer of a study place via your online application .
If you're not able to do this, please let us know your decision by emailing us at admissions@sheffield.ac.uk .
When you accept an offer, you also accept our Terms and Conditions upon Acceptance of an Offer .
Except where indicated in the offer letter, there are no specific deadlines for accepting an offer.
However, we encourage applicants to make a decision within three months of receiving an offer.
Also, the sooner you accept an offer, the sooner you'll be able to make other arrangements (for example your accommodation or visa).
You can accept only one Unconditional offer of a place.
If you've received Unconditional offers for more than one course, you'll need to choose which course to accept.
You should then decline the other offers.
If you're an International applicant, we'll normally ask you to pay a deposit on your tuition fee after you accept an Unconditional offer.
We'll tell you more about this, including how you can pay, in your Unconditional offer letter.
Tuition fee deposits
If you want to withdraw from the application process, please contact us .
We'll then update your application record.
If we've offered you a study place and you will be unable to attend at the start of your course, you may be able to defer your entry to the next admission point.
Most postgraduate taught courses have one admission per year, at the start of the autumn semester in September/October.
For most courses, you can request a deferral through your original online application by clicking on the 'Request Deferral' link in the 'Your Applications' section.
Requesting a deferral will deactivate your current offer, so you should only request one when you're sure that you can't start on the original start date.
If you aren't sure, we would advise you to submit a new application for the next admission point, when applications open for that year.
If the academic selectors approve your request, we'll send you an amended offer letter with a deferred start date.
You should submit your deferral request by the deadline published on our key dates webpage.
You can defer your application a maximum of two times.
If want to defer for a third time, we'll ask you to re-apply.
Deferral requests are reviewed by our admissions selectors, then we'll let you know the decision.
Please note that we can't always review deferral requests when we receive them, and we can't issue deferred offers until after the new admissions year has begun, usually in September.
We'll acknowledge receipt of your request within two weeks.
University of Sheffield offer-holders are entitled to access the members area of our website, MUSE (My University of Sheffield Environment).
Using MUSE is the easiest way to book to attend departmental open days, apply for University accommodation and scholarships and, when the time comes, complete pre-registration tasks.
After we've issued your offer, we'll email you with a username and invite you to activate your account.
More information is available on our webpages:
MUSE for offer-holders
When you have accepted your Conditional or Unconditional offer, you can apply online for University accommodation.
You can find more information, and view the full range of accommodation available for postgraduates, on our webpages:
This page also includes links to further information about the visa application process.
If your offer letter says you'll require ATAS clearance to study on your course, you can find more information on our ATAS webpages:
Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS).
If you've accepted your Unconditional offer, we'll email you with pre-registration information about four weeks before the start date of your course.
You can also access pre-registration tasks via your MUSE account.
If you have not received your pre-registration email by three weeks before your course starts, please contact preregistration@sheffield.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/deadlines:
This page lists the standard key dates and deadlines for applications to postgraduate courses.
We advise you to apply for your CAS number by this date.
If you apply for your CAS number after this date and will be applying for your visa from outside the UK, we would advise you to use a priority visa application service.
We won't arrange a CAS number if you apply for your CAS number less than 3 weeks before the latest possible start date for your course, unless you tell us you'll be applying for your visa inside the UK, or using a priority visa application service.
We won't arrange a CAS number if you apply for your CAS number less than 3 weeks before the latest possible start date for your course, unless you'll be applying for your visa inside the UK, or using a priority visa application service.
A few courses starting in September use different dates from those listed.
If this is the case for your course, it will be indicated on our webpages and/or in your offer letter.
If your course starts at a different time of year, these dates will not apply to your application.
However, we would advise you to follow an equivalent timescale for your start date, for example by applying for your CAS number no later than three weeks before your course starts.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/fees-lookup:
There are a few ways you can check the fees for postgraduate taught courses at the University of Sheffield.
The fee for each postgraduate taught course can be found on each course listing page.
Course listing page
You can use this tool to find your fees directly by searching for your course or by the relevant department/school.
Fee lookup tool
For queries about fees, or if you can't find your course, please use this form to contact the Student Fees Team.
Contact the Student Fees Team

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/scholarships/ukri:
UK Research Councils are a major source of financial support for research postgraduates.
Applications for Research Council scholarships are made through the University, either through a central process, via the academic department or directly through a Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) or Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT).
A summary of the opportunities available at the University of Sheffield are outlined below.
We recommend that prospective students contact their intended school in the first instance to find out what opportunities may be available.
Please also check your eligibility for Research Council scholarships prior to application.
Eligibility criteria for Research Council-funded scholarships
Scholarship opportunities for each Research Council can be found below:
The White Rose College of Arts and Humanities is a Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) of the Universities of Leeds, Sheffield and York.
WRoCAH is responsible for the distribution of Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) funded studentships for these universities and for the co-ordination of a doctoral training programme
There are two main types of WRoCAH Scholarships (Visit the WRoCAH webpages for further information):
The AHRC also work with key partners to make Collaborative Doctoral Partnership (CDP) Awards.
These are recruited on a project by project basis and any that are available are advertised on the PhD Projects Directory .
The Yorkshire Biosciences DTP awards Project and CASE scholarships supported by the BBRSC and the partner Universities of Leeds, York and Sheffield.
Students are recruited to pre defined projects.
Details about the application process can be found on the DTP webpages
The BBSRC funds projects in collaboration with external companies.
These are recruited on a project by project basis and will be advertised on the PhD Projects Directory .
The University benefits from a large DLA grant from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council to support Research Studentships within their portfolio .
These are allocated to departments and to certain projects (including Collaborative DLA awards which are run in conjunction with an industrial collaborator).
Applications for 2026 entry to the EPSRC DLA will open in late October.
Please visit the EPSRC DLA webpage for more information.
The University of Sheffield also recruits to several EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs).
These EPSRC-funded Centres bring together diverse areas of expertise to train engineers and scientists with the skills, knowledge and confidence to tackle today's evolving issues, and future challenges.
They also provide a supportive and exciting environment for students, create new working cultures, build relationships between teams in universities and forge lasting links with industry.
Students are funded for four years and include technical and transferrable skills training, as well as a research element.
Many centres leverage additional studentships from other sources (eg university funding, EU funding, industrial funding, private funding etc).
CDTs recruiting students based at Sheffield include:
EPSRC iCASE awards
The EPSRC works with key partners to fund Industrial CASE awards.
The majority of these awards are made directly to students by eligible departments within the University.
Projects recruiting with EPSRC funding will be advertised on the PhD Projects Directory .
Economic and Social Research Council funding for PhD scholarships at Sheffield is predominantly awarded by the White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership .
This is a partnership between the seven Universities of Leeds, York, Sheffield, Bradford, Hull, Sheffield Hallam and Manchester Metropolitan.
The White Rose DTP awards a number of Pathway, Interdisciplinary, Advanced Quantitative Methods (AQM) and Advanced Data Analytics (ADA) awards through a central competition.
Applications to the competition for 2025 entry are now closed.
Funding is also awarded via supervisor-led Collaborative Awards which are currently closed.
Information about all awards can be found on the White Rose DTP webpages .
The Discovery Medicine North (DiMeN) Doctoral Training Partnership allocates Medical Research Council funds across the Universities of Leeds, Liverpool, Newcastle and Sheffield.
Recruitment to this Doctoral Training Partnership is via project applications, details of the recruitment round for 2025/26 entry can be found on the DiMeN webpages .
ACCE (Adapting to the Challenges of a Changing Environment) is a NERC funded Doctoral Training Partnership with the Universities of Sheffield, Liverpool and York and the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology.
At Sheffield, students are recruited to the DTP from the Departments of Animal and Plant Sciences, Mathematics and Statistics, Geography, Civil and Structural Engineering and Archaeology.
The AURA Centre for Doctoral Training is jointly supported by the Natural Environment Research Council and the Engineering and Physical Science Research Council.
The ECOSOLUTIONS Doctoral Focal Award combines science, policy, and societal engagement to transform chemicals policy and management, enabling a safe, sustainable chemicals sector and non-toxic environments.
The STFC provides fundings to students at Sheffield, predominantly to students within the Department of Physics and Astronomy.
Please contact your department directly for details on potential STFC funding opportunities.
If you have any questions about scholarships please see our FAQs or email pgr-scholarships@sheffield.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/research:
92 per cent of our research is rated in the highest two categories (Research Excellence Framework 2021)
Ranking, reputation and history
A PhD is the highest academic degree that can be achieved through study, involving up to four years full-time (or up to eight years part-time) working towards a presentation of original research in the form of a thesis that offers a significant, original contribution to knowledge.
You'll manage your project with the support of an expert supervisory team, and undertake a tailored doctoral training programme to develop the advanced skills and expertise you will need.
Outside of the core PhD programme you will be encouraged to take advantage of broader opportunities such as teaching, publishing, communicating your research, developing professional networks, and interacting with industry partners or external organisations.
You'll be a key part of the academic community in your department and beyond, and be prepared for a wide range of career options both within and outside of academia.
Our University has a reputation for world-class teaching and research excellence across a variety of disciplines.
This scale of expertise offers researchers a variety of opportunities for collaboration and supervision.
Our research is world leading.
We work closely with our partners to ensure that the work we do delivers economic and societal benefit to the UK and the wider world.
We believe that whatever your research interest might be, we have a broad base of expertise to help you realise your ambition.
Research with impact
Our brilliant PhD students make Sheffield what it is – a research powerhouse, a multidisciplinary community, a place where ideas matter.
We want you to bring your ideas and your enthusiasm for your chosen discipline.
Your supervisor is here to get the best out of you.
They will offer advice and work with you to identify the training and development you need to achieve your goals.
You’ll be able to benefit from their research expertise and gain new perspectives from your innovative research.
Our facilities accommodate varied working patterns, contributing to a great work-life balance for Sheffield PhD researchers.
You will also have access to a first-class student support infrastructure.
We invest in our physical infrastructure of award-winning library and student facilities, laboratories and industry-ready research centres to ensure that we provide you with the world-class resources you expect.
Our talented postgraduate researchers are making a significant contribution to global issues, working on projects that are changing the world around us.
We are a member of the Worldwide Universities Network (WUN), a global higher education and research network made up of 23 universities, spanning 15 countries on five continents.
Research away from the University
An inspiring PhD community
Research at Sheffield
Supervisor support

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/supervisor-support:
They'll offer advice and work with you to identify the training and development you need to achieve your goals.
You'll benefit from their research expertise and you'll gain new perspectives from your innovative research.
Most important of all, your supervisor is a colleague and mentor.
They’ll motivate you to become a confident researcher, someone who’s ready to try things that haven’t been done before.
You’ll also be challenged to contribute beyond your research by undertaking placements, outreach or public engagement work, gaining teaching experience or developing business ideas.
Use our tool to contact a supervisor or familiarise yourself with their work.
Support services for students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/development:
To help you prepare for what's ahead in your research degree and future career, we're here to support you in your professional development.
We offer award-winning specialist training, one-to-one careers advice and mentoring from academics and professionals.
Your supervisor will work with you to identify your needs and create a personalised doctoral development programme.
This might include taking taught modules alongside your research to help you achieve your goals.
We’ll make sure you learn skills relevant to you and your career plans.
Whatever your discipline, you can take a break from your research to go on placement in the UK or overseas.
This could be with a private company, a hospital, a museum, a government department or an Non-Governmental Organisation.
We’ll help you look for potential employers.
If you want to develop your research skills, we can offer expert guidance, including:
There are lots of training opportunities on offer and I’ve attended sessions on media training, presentation skills, open access publishing, careers, CV guidance and also writing funding proposals.
Dr Christine Wallis
Formal Doctoral Researcher
If you have an idea for a business, a public engagement event or a non-profit enterprise we’ll offer support and advice.
We have a dedicated enterprise team working full-time to help students develop their ideas.
Sheffield is an innovator in the field of public engagement and there are many opportunities for you to get involved.
You could even set up your own project.
There are many opportunities at Sheffield to present and share your research through seminars and conferences.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are one of the longest standing schemes available for industry collaboration.
Research students are typically funded to work with businesses to solve problems identified by the industry collaborator.
We're committed to supporting research staff by enhancing their experience of working at the University and contributing to their career development.
Our innovative Think Ahead programme is a framework for the continuous professional development of our researchers, supporting individual career ambitions in and beyond academia.
It brings together staff and doctoral researchers from various disciplines for professional development opportunities.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/community:
As a PhD student at Sheffield you're welcomed into a diverse, supportive community of researchers from all over the world.
In return, we give you an all-round experience that enhances your earning potential and inspires you to think big.
You will meet like-minded people who are passionate for research across the entire University.
You’ll gain free, personalised skills training, expert careers advice and become part of an inspiring, collaborative group of researchers from across the disciplines.
Our student ambassadors are the best people to tell you about studying at Sheffield.
Start a conversation with one of our ambassadors or search for their answers to your questions.
Chat now
Our global reputation is down to staff and students working together towards a common goal.
If you're ready to do research that matters, we want to hear from you .
Postgraduate research is a life changing experience: intellectually, professionally and personally.
You’ll be supervised by experts and work with researchers who have an international reputation for excellence.
We'll take your individual needs into account to give you the best possible experience.
We promise you a structured programme of professional development and quality contact time with your supervisor.
You can also get free English language support from the English Language Training Centre as part of the programme.
99% of Sheffield staff who took part in the last Research Excellence Framework were involved in internationally recognised, internationally excellent or world-leading research.
We use our research power to tackle big problems: global issues such as climate change and sustainable development; national concerns such as how to make our society fairer for everyone.
Professional development

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/scholarships/doctoral-loans:
Students from Wales can find out more information about postgraduate doctoral loans on the Student Finance Wales web pages .
Eligible home fee-paying students can apply for a postgraduate doctoral loan from the UK government to help fund their studies.
Whether you qualify for a postgraduate doctoral loan depends on your course, your age, and your nationality or residency status.
You will not be able to get a postgraduate doctoral loan if you already have a doctoral degree, or a qualification that’s equivalent or higher.
You will also not be able to get a postgraduate doctoral loan if you’ve received or will receive Research Council funding (for example, studentships, stipends, scholarships and tuition fee support).
There are additional criteria that may mean you are not eligible for a postgraduate doctoral loan.
For more information about eligibility, please refer to the government website.
Gov.uk - Doctoral loan - Eligibility
Your course must be a full, standalone doctoral course, have started on or after 1 August 2018, last between 3 to 8 academic years, and be provided by a university in the UK with research degree awarding powers.
It can be full-time or part-time and taught or research-based (or a combination of both).
You can apply for a loan if your doctoral programme includes an integrated master’s degree (even if you already have a master’s degree).
You must register for a full doctoral degree.
You can qualify for a loan if you are undertaking distance learning, depending on whether you meet the relevant eligibility criteria.
You must be under 60 on the first day of the first academic year of your course.
The academic year is a period of 12 months starting on:
Whether you qualify for a loan depends on your nationality or residency status.
A postgraduate doctoral loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate doctoral course.
The amount you’ll get is not based on your income or your family’s.
If you are starting your course in the academic year 2025-2026, you can borrow up to £30,301.
A lower amount of loan is available if you are already registered on a course:
You can apply for a postgraduate doctoral loan in any year of your course but if you apply after your first year, you might not get the maximum amount.
For more information on what you’ll get, please refer to the government website.
Gov.uk - Doctoral loan - What you’ll get
The loan will be divided equally across each year of your course.
The loan will be paid directly to you.
After your application has been approved, you’ll be sent a letter with your payment dates.
You can also check them in your online account.
The loan will be paid directly to you in three instalments of 33%, 33% and 34% each year.
You get the first payment after your course start date, once the University confirms that you’ve registered.
Applications usually open in the May or June before you start your course.
You only need to apply once for a postgraduate doctoral loan for your course.
You need to apply within 9 months of the first day of the last academic year of the course.
For more information, please refer to the government website.
Gov.uk - Doctoral loan - How to apply
Loan repayments will usually commence from the April after course completion at the earliest (or the April 4 years after the course started if you’re studying part-time and your course is longer than 4 years) and only when your income is over the repayment threshold set by the government: this is currently £21,000 a year for postgraduate loan repayment plans.
You’ll repay a percentage of your income over the repayment threshold set by the government (currently £21,000 for postgraduate loan repayment plans).
The doctoral loan repayment will be calculated at 6% of income above the repayment threshold.
Repayments will be made concurrently alongside repayment of any outstanding undergraduate student loan.
Gov.uk - Repaying your student loan - How much you repay
Your postgraduate doctoral loan will be written off 30 years after the April you were first due to repay.
The loan's interest rate will usually be calculated at the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 3%.
This interest will accrue from the date the first loan instalment is paid.
For more information about how the interest is calculated, please refer to the government website.
Gov.uk - How interest is calculated - Postgraduate loan
As a reminder, the information on this page relates to Student Finance England.
Students from Wales can find out more information online:
Wales - Student Finance Wales - Disabled Students' Allowance
Postgraduate students will need to fill in a form.
For more information about paying your tuition fees as a postgraduate research student using a doctoral loan, refer to our web pages.
Tuition fees for postgraduate research home students
Living costs Additional funding for postgraduate study
Tuition fees for postgraduate research home fee-paying students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/scholarships/profiles:
Explore profiles of our PhD researchers to find out about life as a PhD student and how, for some, a scholarship helped their studies.
For her research Yuhua is conducting research to better understand the factors that influence digital inclusion for active and healthy ageing among older people.
For her PhD Patricia is doing a comparative study involving the role of marketplaces for urban development, in the direction of supporting more socially just outcomes for disadvantaged urban communities.
For her research project Kezia is exploring 2-D metal-organic nanosheets as new generation photoactive materials in organic bulk heterojunction solar cells.
For her PhD Sarah is researching the Roman migration patterns based on skeletal, archaeological, and written evidence.
Safirun is doing a PhD that focuses on sustainable rice cultivation by looking at the biological nitrification inhibitors in paddy rice cultivars.
For his PhD, Sourabh is investigating various additive manufacturing strategies, including selective laser melting and binder jetting for processing nickel superalloys.
His research Yashwanth Kumar aims to design cosolutes that help to make formulations with longer shelf life.
This could help biopharmaceutical companies to come up with antibodies, vaccines, drugs that are stable for a long time.
Gemma is researching how the right to privacy of celebrities is balanced with the right to freedom of expression following the conclusion of the Leveson Inquiry.
Mahmoud is conducting research on quantum computation.
For her PhD project Cher aims to investigate the role of oral microorganisms in the initiation of cardiovascular disease.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/apply/routes:
There are three ways to apply for doctoral research.
Find out who's doing the kind of research you're interested in and familiarise yourself with their work.
Find a research supervisor
Department websites also provide research supervisor details.
Departments advertise PhD projects throughout the year.
Many projects are funded.
You might find that a research project comes with a supervisor attached.
Even so, it's worth finding out as much as you can about your supervisor before you apply.
Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) are a radical alternative to the usual PhD.
They're designed to produce skilled individuals who can tackle the major challenges of our time.
The programmes take three to four years to complete and combine taught modules with original research.
They lead to a full PhD or Engineering Doctorate (EngD).
You can apply direct to a CDT or in some cases to the University, which includes writing a proposal.
Find a training centre
Department websites also advertise the latest CDT opportunities.
Some of our departments offer PhDs with Integrated Studies.
You spend an initial year taking taught modules and a short research project, so you learn the research skills you'll need before progressing to a PhD.
Check department websites for the latest course details.
Ideally, you should start planning and investigating funding opportunities at least a year before you want to start your studies.
There are lots of different types of scholarships available, from partial fee scholarships to full awards covering fees and maintenance.
There are also other sources of external funding.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/apply/applying:
You can apply for postgraduate research using our Postgraduate Online Application Form:
Postgraduate Online Application Form
The form has comprehensive instructions for you to follow, and pop-up help is available on each page.
If you are a graduate in Medicine and wish to apply for an MD research degree, you'll need to apply via a different route.
To make an MD research application, please visit the Medical School webpages:
Medical School
You'll need to include certain documents to support your application, for example evidence of your previous qualifications and a personal statement.
You can supply these simply by uploading them to the relevant sections of your online application.
Applying Essentials

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/apply/proposal:
Once you know what kind of PhD you're applying for, it's time to start writing.
If you're applying for research within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities and the Faculty of Social Sciences, you will normally be required to provide an outline research proposal.
This should fit with existing research interests and expertise within the academic department to which you're applying.
Check the department's webpages for information about any specific requirements, but the proposal should normally be about 500–1000 words in length and cover the following areas:
This is known as your ‘research question'.
It could be a theory you want to test, or a more open question, but be precise.
You should include a title for your thesis in the proposal.
What are you hoping to achieve with your research?
Why do you think it's worth doing?
How does it fit into the context of current thinking on the subject?
Will your research contribute something new?
How will you go about answering your research question?
For example, will you use a survey or case studies?
You need to set out a workable methodology, and a timetable that shows your research can be completed in the time available to you.
Describe the materials, equipment, training and travel you need, their availability/feasibility, and where they fit into your methodology.
If you're applying to join an existing project or a Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT), you might not have to write a proposal.
Each project or CDT is different.
Check our funded projects directory , department webpages and our Centres for Doctoral Training for more information, and if possible discuss your plans with your proposed supervisor before you apply.
You should upload your research proposal as a supporting document in your online application:
Information about other supporting documents you'll need is available in our guidance:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/apply/after:
It normally takes academic departments around six weeks to make decisions on research applications.
If you haven't received a decision on your application after eight weeks, we recommend that you contact the academic department directly.
You can find their contact details via our find a PhD webpage.
Before we make our decision, we may invite you to attend an interview with staff from your academic department.
A Conditional offer means there are requirements that you need to meet before you can start the course, for example a certain English language score, or a minimum grade in your current studies.
An Unconditional offer means there are no further academic requirements that you need to meet.
The standard deadlines for meeting the conditions of an offer are provided on our key dates and deadlines page.
You can accept only one Unconditional offer of a place.
If we've offered you a study place and for unforeseen circumstances you can't attend at the start of your course, you can ask to defer your entry.
You can request a deferral through your original online application , by clicking on the 'Request Deferral' link in the 'Your Applications' section.
Your request will be forwarded to the academic selectors for a decision.
A change of start date is at the discretion of the University.
It isn't automatically given and you may be asked to make a new application.
More information is available on our webpages: MUSE for offer-holders
Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS)
If you haven't received your pre-registration email by three weeks before your course starts, please contact preregistration@sheffield.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/visit/events/postgraduate-campus-tours:
Get a feel for student life at Sheffield, you will visit the main University buildings, guided by one of our student ambassadors.
Campus tours are a great way to get an idea of what it’s like to study here.
Our tours last for approximately 90mins, which does involve a fair amount of walking, inside and outside.
To find out more about your course or department, we recommend attending an online postgraduate open day .
We can offer a step-free campus tour route with advance notice.
Join a campus tour, led by one of our students.
Campus tours begin at our Students' Union building and take around 90 minutes.
For more information about the tour, please see our campus tours FAQs .
We asked our student vloggers to explore the University and take you on a virtual tour of our campus, facilities and more.
Explore our city and campus at your own pace with our self-guided tour.
Find out more about self-guided tours

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/applying/pre-masters:
Our University of Sheffield International College offers you the best pathway to a degree from the University of Sheffield – one of the UK's leading universities.
The University of Sheffield International College provides high quality and flexible Pre-Masters programmes that are specifically designed to prepare international students for admission to postgraduate taught masters degrees at the University of Sheffield.
Choose from one of the following subjects:
The small classes and extensive student support ensure you get the most out of your time at the University of Sheffield International College.
You can fast track your entry to the University by improving your English language skills alongside your academic subjects.
Upon successful completion of your Pre-Masters programme, you can gain entry into a wide range of world-class postgraduate taught Masters degrees at the University of Sheffield.
The University of Sheffield International College is located on the campus of the University of Sheffield so as a student of the University of Sheffield International College you will have access to first class educational, recreational and social facilities at the University.
The campus is only a short walk from Sheffield city centre with access to great shops, cafes and entertainment.
Find out more about the University of Sheffield International College

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/alumni-discount:
Our graduates can take advantage of a discount on tuition fees.
As a Sheffield graduate, you’re entitled to a discount on your tuition fees.
If you studied with us for an undergraduate degree, or attended a Study Abroad/Erasmus programme at the University, then the discount you receive is based on the level of postgraduate study you intend to pursue:
If you have previously studied at postgraduate level with us (even if you also studied at undergraduate level with us), then you are entitled to:
If you've previously graduated from the University, or attended a Study Abroad/Erasmus programme at the University, and intend to pursue further studies with us, then you're eligible to apply.
You must be starting a new postgraduate course at the University of Sheffield.
Students studying Medicine at the University who decide to intercalate on a postgraduate course with us are eligible to apply - please refer to the terms and conditions for more information about eligibility and how to apply.
Further information about the Alumni Discount can be found below.
The process for Alumni Discount as a home fee-paying student is different depending on whether you have previously studied only as an undergraduate and will be studying a new postgraduate course with us or whether you have previously studied at postgraduate level with us (even if you also studied at undergraduate level with us).
If you previously studied only as an undergraduate and will be studying a new postgraduate course with us:
If you have previously studied at postgraduate level with us (even if you also studied at undergraduate level with us):
Alumni Discount Application Form If you started your course before September 2021 , please contact the Student Funding Team .
Once you have received an offer to study with us, you will need to complete the Alumni Discount Application Form, using your MUSE for offer holders login .
It is your responsibility to ensure that you complete the application form.
You will then receive an email confirming the discount once it has been applied, usually during July to August, once your student record is available.
Alumni Discount Application Form
If you started your course before September 2021 , please contact the Student Funding Team .
These terms and conditions are applicable to 2025 entry.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgradapplication:
Search for
Welcome to the Online Application Form for Postgraduate courses at the University of Sheffield.
New applicants Set up your account below.
Logged in before?
If you have already started a Postgraduate or Alternate Route application and would like to log back in to enter further information, enter your email address and password in the lower section.
After you have submitted your application you may be asked to log in again if further details are requested.
Please note - we recommend you have javascript enabled in your web browser as it will make the application form easier to complete.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/ahpnm/apprenticeships:
Earn while you study with the University of Sheffield to qualify as a Nursing Associate, Nurse, Speech and Language Therapist, or Advanced Clinical Practitioner.
Rated "Good" by Ofsted.
This two-year apprenticeship covers all four fields of nursing – Adult, Mental Health, Learning Disabilities and Child.
This 18-month apprenticeship provides students with the clinical skills, knowledge and confidence needed to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as an adult nurse.
Apprentices on this two year nursing programme spend two days per week in their base area during year one, followed by one day per week in their base area during year two.
Qualify as a Speech and Language Therapist over four years through a combination of work-based learning and online study.
Take your career as an orthoptist, optometrist or ophthalmic nurse to the next level with an advanced clinical practice apprenticeship in paediatric ophthalmology.
This three-year apprenticeship enables you to expand the scope of your practice and qualify as an advanced clinical practitioner within general practice.
Play a leading role in caring for newborn babies, and expand your clinical knowledge and practical skills in neonatal care as an advanced clinical practitioner.
Expand the role you play in caring for babies, children and young people as an advanced clinical practitioner in paediatrics.
Everything you need to know about becoming a health apprentice at the University of Sheffield.
Discover how training an apprentice at the University of Sheffield can help future proof your organisation and improve patient care.
Find out how to fund an apprenticeship vacancy in your NHS Trust or healthcare organisation.
Take a look at what some of our recent apprentices have said about their experiences combining work and study.
Meet some of the course leads, clinical educators and professional services staff behind our apprenticeship programmes.
Rated "Good" by Ofsted
We’re delighted to have been rated “Good” in our latest Ofsted inspection , published in January 2025.
Rated "Excellent" by Employers
According to the GOV.UK 'Find apprenticeship training' service, the University of Sheffield has been rated Excellent by Employers, and Good by our apprentices.
Explore our feedback as a training provider.
Email us at ahpnm-apprenticeships-admissions@sheffield.ac.uk
Bluesky
LinkedIn
X / Twitter
Instagram
Subscribe to our health apprenticeships newsletter

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/apprenticeships/employers:
As a university with a track record in forging successful partnerships, we're keen to collaborate in developing new apprenticeships with employers across the city, region and nationally.
We have successfully partnered with businesses such as Boeing, McLaren and Siemens and already have relationships with over 200 small to medium enterprises (SMEs) as an apprenticeship provider.
Our apprenticeship programmes are designed in partnership with employers, so that your apprentices develop the skills and expertise they need to succeed in your industry.
An apprenticeship is:
Apprentices are directly employed by the employer and must be employed on a full-time basis for at least 30 hours per week.
They must develop significant new knowledge, skills and behaviours through the apprenticeship.
Apprentices must spend a minimum of 20 per cent of their working hours completing off-the-job training which takes place during the apprentice's normal working hours.
In this time, apprentices should be working to achieve the knowledge, skills and behaviours of the approved apprenticeship.
If you are a business with a wage bill above £3 million, you are able to use your apprenticeship levy contributions to pay for the cost of the apprenticeship.
If you are a business with a wage bill below £3 million, the government will pay 95 per cent of the cost of the apprenticeship for apprentices of any age; you will be expected to pay the remaining 5 per cent.
The University offers apprenticeships from level 3 to level 7.
Level 3 (Advanced) apprenticeships are an equivalent level to A Levels; level 6 and 7 apprenticeships may include a fully accredited degree or master degree or PG Diploma level qualifications.
Apprenticeships are currently provided in the following areas:
The University of Sheffield is listed on the Register of Accredited Training Providers for Degree Apprenticeships
Find out more about Degree Apprenticeships
University partners and collaborators

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/apprenticeships/contact:
We are working with employers to extend our Degree Apprenticeship programmes in the following areas:
If you are interested in exploring how Degree Apprenticeships can support your organisation or business, we are keen to hear from you.
For any questions and enquiries, email us at apprenticeships@sheffield.ac.uk
Working with employers

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/apprenticeships/sub-contracting-policy:
The University of Sheffield is committed to delivering high quality apprenticeships.
The delivery of advanced, higher or degree apprenticeship programmes is carried out by the University, except in the limited instances outlined below.
The ESFA requires all apprentices to produce evidence of achievement of specified Level 2 Maths and English qualifications to meet the requirements of the apprenticeship.
As an HEI, the University has expertise in academic provision at Levels 4-7 but has limited expertise in provision of Level 2 Maths and English for some categories of learners.
In order to provide enhanced opportunities for those categories of learners where external expertise would add benefit, the University may sub-contract this element of an apprenticeship.
Any decision to sub-contract delivery of Maths and English will be discussed and agreed with the Employer in advance.
In the case of new apprenticeships, subcontracting this delivery must be approved as part of the University’s approval process for a new apprenticeship.
These cases are rare and constitute a small part of the apprenticeship.
Payment to employer providers will be made to cover direct costs only as required in the ESFA funding rules.
Employers sub-contracted to deliver part of an apprenticeship must evidence the direct costs of their delivery in order to claim payment.
Approved by Senate on 8 December 2021
(This document is Appendix 1 of the University Policy on Quality and Compliance of Apprenticeships.)
The Apprenticeship Education Oversight Group (AEOG) provides overall institutional oversight of sub-contractual arrangements on apprenticeships.
In order to provide effective oversight, the following requirements will be followed for each sub-contractual arrangement.
All sub-contracting arrangements require Faculty business case approval and approval by AEOG, which should normally take place as part of the apprenticeship approval process.
Any proposals for sub-contracting in relation to an existing apprenticeship also require business case approval and should be submitted to the Apprenticeship Education Oversight Group for approval.
Following approval by AEOG, the AMRC-TC’s Performance and Compliance Team is responsible for drafting apprenticeship sub-contractual agreements on behalf of the University (in consultation with the Academic Programmes Office (APO) and relevant departments.
A named representative of the Team will act as the key contact with the sub-contractor for contract review and renewal.
The relevant academic department(s) will appoint a departmental lead who will be responsible for:
For any queries, please contact apprenticeships@sheffield.ac.uk
Appendix 2 approved by Senate on 16 March 2022.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/education/lifelong-learning/courses/foundation:
Our degrees with a foundation year offer a route into degree level study for mature students without standard entry qualifications.
The foundation year is designed to prepare you for your chosen course, building the confidence, academic skills and subject knowledge needed for successful degree level study.
On successful completion of the foundation year (see individual course pages for more information), you transfer to the academic department in which you will complete your degree.
We currently offer the following degrees with a foundation year:
Foundation year programme structure
Eligibility and entry requirements
Preparing to study with us

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/mature/direct-entry:
Information on how to apply directly to a degree programme.
Whether you're in the process of choosing your next steps to prepare for university or you're ready to apply for a degree, we have a long history of welcoming mature students.
A mature student is somebody who will be aged 21 or over at the start of their course.
As a mature student your application is guaranteed to be given additional consideration, relating to your relevant academic, professional and life experiences.
If you are ready to apply for your chosen course please browse our online prospectus to find the entry requirements for the course you are interested in.
Remember, entry requirements vary from course to course and, in some cases, additional qualifications may be required.
Want to know the other qualifications which we consider for entry?
Try our other UK qualifications page .
For details of how to apply for a full-time course, go to the UCAS Apply webpages.
If you are applying for a part-time course please visit the web page for that course and follow the link to our online application form.
Our guidance on applying, including our standard requirements, can be found via our applying essentials page .
If you don't have the entry qualifications required for your chosen degree course, Lifelong learning offers a wide range of degrees with a foundation year for mature students without standard entry qualifications.
These courses are provided by many local colleges.
Before undertaking an Access to HE course please check that your chosen degree provider accepts this qualification.
Access to HE Diploma courses
There are other options, such as Open University courses, which we consider on a case-by-case basis.
For courses in engineering and some science subjects, our Science and Engineering Foundation Year is intended for strong applicants who don’t have the subject background required for entry to the first year of a degree course.
If you do not have A-Levels, BTEC L3, an HNC or HND you are required to have studied for an HEA Diploma in Science or Engineering before being eligible to apply.
We will accept 60 credits overall with Distinctions in 24 Level 3 credits, including 12 in Maths, and Merits in 21 Level 3 credits.
A Maths assessment may also be required.
As with all applicants, you are also required to have GCSE grade B
If you are a mature international student and don't meet our entry requirements, you can apply for an International Foundation Year or a Pre-Masters programme at the University of Sheffield International College .
Upon successful completion, you can progress to an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
Lifelong learning
Part-time undergraduate degrees
Part-time masters degrees in our Management School
Join one of our upcoming events to find out more about returning to education as a mature student!

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/mature/direct-entry/part-time:
We now offer a number of our undergraduate degree courses on a part-time basis.
The course structure is the same as for the equivalent full-time courses, and part-time students study individual modules with full-time students.
Instead of studying 120 credits a year for three years, part-time students spread their credits over a period of five or six years, depending on the subject they are studying.
Information about the part-time courses is not included in our online prospectus, and you cannot apply for them via UCAS, so please follow the links below for more information about each course, and links to online application forms.
BA History
BA English Literature
BA Philosophy
BMus Music
All of these degrees are also available with a foundation year .
These courses are offered by Lifelong learning in the School of Education, and are for mature students (21 and over) who have been out of education for two or more years.
Open days and campus tours

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/education/school/contact:
If you have questions, or would like to request further information, you can contact us.
For Undergraduate and Postgraduate admissions enquiries for the School of Education & Sheffield Methods Institute.
Start a conversation with us - you can get in touch via email, telephone or online chat.
General enquiries: education@sheffield.ac.uk
Undergraduate: eduug@sheffield.ac.uk
Postgraduate taught: edupgt@sheffield.ac.uk
Research: edupgr@sheffield.ac.uk
+44 114 222 8177
General enquiries: dll@sheffield.ac.uk
Application enquiries: prospective student enquiry form (please select 'Lifelong Learning' when asked 'What is your enquiry about?')
+44 114 222 7000
General enquiries (including current student enquiries): smi@sheffield.ac.uk
Postgraduate Research Enquiries: smi-pgr@sheffield.ac.uk
+44 114 222 8345
School of Education Faculty of Social Sciences The Wave 2 Whitham Road Sheffield S10 2AH
The Wave on AccessAble
Our school
Maps and travel advice for visitors

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/online-learning/sheffield-apple-podcasts:
The University of Sheffield is proud to contribute to the world's largest online catalogue of free educational content on Apple Podcasts.
To access our library of content on Apple Podcasts you will need to download iTunes.
Download iTunes from Apple
If you already have iTunes on your computer, go straight to Sheffield on iTunes U .
Apple Podcasts allows educational institutes and other public bodies - for example, the British Museum - to provide free audio-visual educational materials through Apple's iTunes online store.
The materials can be downloaded using Apple’s iTunes software for PC and Mac computers, the iTunes U App for iPhones and iPads, or the TuneSpace App for Android phones via Google’s Play store.
Sheffield on Apple Podcasts currently contains over 480 items, including videos, audio recordings, screencast recordings and PDF documents.
A growing number of subjects are represented, with materials from each of the five Sheffield-based faculties and a number of professional services.
An Introduction to the History of Western Philosophy
In this series Angie Hobbs , Professor of the Public Understanding of Philosophy explores the history of Greek philosophy.
Angie's chief interests are in ancient philosophy and literature, ethics (both theoretical and applied) and political theory, and she has published widely in these areas.
Edmund de Waal: Fetched Home
Award-winning artist and Sheffield alumnus Edward de Waal discusses place and displacement.
His talk draws from his own family history and his work as an artist.
Life Festival
Watch highlights from our festival of medicine, dentistry and health, including a talk by leading gluten expert Professor David Sanders, 'Gluten Attack'.
SPERI Annual Lecture with George Monbiot
George Monbiot, well-known journalist and environmental correspondent for the Guardian, delivers the SPERI annual lecture.
SPERI seeks to develop new ways of thinking about the economic and political challenges posed by the current combination of financial crisis, shifting economic power and environmental threat.
Introduction to Modelling, Analysis and Control
These screencasts, produced by Dr Anthony Rossiter from Automatic Control and Systems Engineering, feature over 170 items across over 20 collections.
Modelling is a core skill for all engineers - these videos focus on modelling, and this section serves as an introduction.
iDig - field training for archaeologists
Produced by Dr Bob Johnston from Archaeology, these iDig instructional videos teach many of the essential practical skills required for archaeological excavations.
Based on IFA guidelines, they are designed for use on, or preparation for field trips.
Introduction to Italian podcasts
Developed by Alessia Brighi from the Modern Languages Teaching Centre, this is a sample of the audio material used in support of their language classes.
The topics and grammar are suitable for complete beginners to lower intermediate learners

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/presessional:
Learn more about our range of Pre-sessional English courses to help you prepare for admission onto your degree course at The University of Sheffield.
Still thinking about joining a pre-sessional English course?
Here's some reasons to apply:
Applications for our 2025-26 academic year pre-sessional courses for entry onto degree programmes beginning in the 2026-27 academic year are now open .
Apply Now​​​​​
Our in-person pre-sessional English courses take place in face-to-face classroom based lessons in Sheffield.
Start Date : Various start dates throughout the year
End Date: Depends on course length
Entry Requirements: Approximately 1 to 2 IELTS bands away from the English requirements for your degree course (see Entry Requirements links for more details)
Hours: 15 hours of tutor-led classes, a 1 to 1 tutorial and at least 5 hours of guided independent study per week
Cost : Varies by course length and start date.
£525 per week for courses starting after April 2025.
More Course Details
Term 1 October 2025 Entry Requirements
Term 2 January 2026 Entry Requirements
Apply Now
Start Date : Monday 30 June 2025
End Date: Friday 5 September 2025
Application Deadline: The application deadline for this course has now passed and we are no longer accepting new applications.
Cost: £5,250 (£525 per week)
Your Overall IELTS score:
Your Individual IELTS component scores (Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening):
You must also hold a conditional or unconditional offer to study a degree course beginning in September or October 2025 at The University of Sheffield before applying for this course.
More course details
Example entry requirements
The application deadline for this course has now passed and we are no longer accepting new applications.
Start Date : Monday 21 July 2025
End Date: Friday 29 August 2025
Application Deadline: Monday 23 June 2025 at 11:59pm (BST)
Cost: £3,150 (£525 per week)
Your Individual IELTS component scores (Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening):
We accept the following UK Visas & Immigration approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) results for entry onto our in-person pre-sessional courses:
Entry requirements for each of our courses in IELTS can be found by clicking on the entry requirements link under each course listed above.
If you have a Pearson PTE Academic or LanguageCert Academic result, you can convert it into an equivalent IELTS score to check your entry requirements using our test comparisons webpage:
English Language Test Comparisons
If you have a different test result, or are still unsure about the requirements for our pre-sessional courses, please send us an email containing your latest test result, and the IELTS requirements for your chosen University of Sheffield degree course and we can advise you on which courses you are eligible for.
If you are an International student, it is likely you will require a Student visa to study in the UK.
To apply for a student visa, you will require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Further information about obtaining a CAS can be found on our Arriving in Sheffield webpages:
CAS number applications
Early applicants to our Summer Pre-sessional courses may be eligible for a combined CAS .
A combined CAS allows you to apply for a single Student Visa to remain in the UK for the duration of both of your courses (e.g.
a Pre-sessional English course and a postgraduate MSc course).
A combined CAS saves you time and money as you only need to apply for a single visa before travelling to the UK and you will not need to make a new visa application between completing your pre-sessional course and starting your degree programme or Study Abroad course.
Further information about obtaining a combined CAS is available here:
Combined CAS for postgraduate applicants
Suitable for distance learners, our fully online pre-sessional courses can be studied from your home country and finish earlier in the Summer leaving enough time for you to make travel and visa arrangements before coming to Sheffield to start your degree course.
Start Date : Monday 23 June 2025
End Date: Friday 29 August 2025
Entry Requirements:
You must also hold a conditional or unconditional offer to study a degree course beginning in September or October 2025 at The University of Sheffield before applying for this course.
Start Date : Monday 7 July 2025
End Date: Friday 15 August 2025
We can accept the following English language tests for entry onto our online pre-sessional courses:
* The online version of Pearson PTE Academic is not accepted.
We do not accept any other English language tests (such as Duolingo) for admission onto our online pre-sessional courses.
Entry requirements for each of our courses in IELTS can be found by clicking on the entry requirements link under the courses listed above.
English Language Test comparisons
A 4 week full-time introduction to life as a student at the University of Sheffield , purposefully designed to familiarise you with academic methodology and British university culture, providing a head-start before you begin your degree programme in September 2025.
Start Date : Monday 18 August 2025
End Date: Friday 12 September 2025
Cost : £2,100 (£525 per week)
This programme is for students who have already met the English requirements for their degree course.
You must hold a conditional or unconditional offer to study a degree course beginning in September or October 2025 at The University of Sheffield which you have already met the English language requirements for in full before applying for this course.
More programme details
If you're not sure which Pre-sessional Course is best for you then please get in touch and our Admissions Team will be happy to help:
eltc-admissions@sheffield.ac.uk
For more information on how we hold and process your personal data, please see the University's Privacy Notice for prospective, current and former students .
In-Person Pre-sessional English Course Overview
Online Pre-sessional English Course Overview
Academic Literacy & University Culture Programme Overview

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time/pre-sessional:
If you need to improve your English language and academic skills to meet the entry requirements for an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at The University of Sheffield, our Pre-sessional English course can help.
Our Pre-sessional English course is designed to improve your English language and academic skills to meet the requirements for entry onto a degree programme at The University of Sheffield.
The highly qualified and experienced tutors on the course will also support you with improving your English language and academic study skills in lively and interactive classes, which will help you succeed when you join your degree programme.
Joining a Pre-sessional English course saves you the trouble of taking multiple IELTS exams before you can start your degree.
If you successfully complete the assessments on the Pre-sessional English course, and have otherwise met all the other conditions outlined in your offer, you can progress directly to your degree programme when the course finishes.
The course can also help you settle into life as a student in the UK, even if you’ve already met the English language requirements for your prospective degree programme.
Our Pre-sessional English Course is made up of the following components:
For prospective undergraduate students the course contains an additional focus on reading skills as these will form the basis of your studies when you begin your degree course.
If you have a lower level of English you may need to join one of our longer pre-sessional courses.
Our long term pre-sessional programme aims to gradually build your basic language skills which are required to succeed on a degree programme.
As you progress and increase your confidence in using the basic language skills (reading, writing, listening, speaking, vocabulary, grammar, pronunciation), the Academic Skills content of the course increases.
The final module concentrates on improving the Academic Skills you will need while studying on your future degree programme.
This shows the modules you would study on a 4-Term Pre-sessional Course:
At lower levels of English you need to develop your General Language skills - our University English programme is a general language module but focussed on developing language skills within a University environment.
There is continued language development but with more of a focus on academic tasks such as writing, presentations and seminars.
You will be introduced to these skills and allowed to develop them throughout the term.
It expands on the second term and helps you to develop your academic skills.
You will continue to develop your range of language skills.
We assess the four skills (reading, writing, speaking and listening) and academic literacy through a combination of integrated academic assessments.
You may be asked to participate in a seminar, give a presentation and write an essay based on academic sources.
Every lesson in the Pre-sessional prepared me for my masters.
From accessing online study portals to communicating freely and completing the dissertation independently.
Xiaoyi Liu
2023 Pre-sessional English / 2023-24 MA TESOL
In order to progress to your academic course at The University of Sheffield you must complete and pass the pre-sessional course assessments.
The pre-sessional course will assess your four skills (reading, writing, speaking and listening) and academic literacy through a combination of integrated academic assessments.
Progression to University
Progression from the Pre-sessional Course onto your University of Sheffield degree programme will also include consideration of:
If you fully participate and pass the pre-sessional course assessments you will be able to progress directly onto your University of Sheffield degree course.
Results from our Pre-sessional course are only accepted by The University of Sheffield.
The results are valid for 2 years and can be used for entry onto a degree course at the start of the academic year immediately following Term 3 and 4, or the following academic year should you choose to defer the start date of your degree course.
If you plan on attending a different university after studying our Pre-sessional English course, you will need to ask your prospective university which English language qualifications they can accept.
Please note these are example times and may be subject to change before or during the course.
All times are UK local time (GMT/BST)
09:30 - 11:00 - Lesson 1
11:30 - 13:00 - Lesson 2
You will have a personal tutor assigned to you in each term.
You will meet them regularly to discuss your work and progress on the course.
These tutorials will typically take place at a time between 2pm and 3pm.
There will typically be 60 minutes per day of required guided independent study, including readings, lectures, language practice activities, writing tasks and preparation for speaking tasks.
For pre-sessional courses starting between April 2025 and April 2026 the tuition fee is £525 per week .
This fee includes:
Paying your tuition fees is a crucial part of your registration at University.
For information on how to pay your tuition fee correctly, as well as the things you need to look out for, visit:
Information about your ELTC tuition fee
How to pay your tuition fees and important information
We can also accept payments from sponsors:
Tuition Fees - Sponsored students
The Pre-sessional course tuition fee does not include accommodation or transportation costs.
To discover the range of accommodation options and travel information we have for students joining our Pre-sessional course, please read our accommodation and travel information webpage .
You can join a Pre-sessional course at the beginning of any of our four terms.
Please select your preferred start date below to view the entry requirements, fees and dates for the various Pre-sessional English courses starting in that period:
In most circumstances - yes.
If you plan on joining a course at a British University after finishing your Pre-sessional Course then you will need to submit an UKVI Approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) result, such as IELTS for UKVI, as evidence of your English level when submitting your application.
A UKVI SELT at CEFR Level B1 or above (which is equal to an IELTS score of 4.0 in every component - Reading, Writing, Speaking, Listening and Overall) is required to apply for a Student Visa for an English language course.
In some circumstances it is possible to attend our 10 and 6 week in-person Pre-sessional courses and a Postgraduate course on a single Student Visa obtained with a combined CAS.
It may be possible for you to obtain a combined CAS without holding a UKVI approved SELT certificate, providing your academic offer is unconditional or it only contains academic conditions for your degree taken in your home country.
If your academic offer is still conditional with English language conditions, then you will need to supply a UKVI approved SELT for admission onto a pre-sessional course.
For more information please read the the university's main combined CAS information webpage .
If you do not have an UKVI approved SELT certificate we recommend checking the IELTS website for more information about IELTS for UKVI and to find your nearest test centre.
If you are unable to obtain an UKVI approved SELT certificate, you can join our online Pre-sessional courses or you may still be able to join our University English (General English) course on a Short Term Student Visa (if your course is over 6 months but less than 11 months) or a Visitor Visa (if your course is less than 6 months).
Please contact us or visit our University English webpage for more information.
The online components of the course will be delivered using Blackboard Collaborate.
To access the online content, students will require a desktop or laptop computer with a webcam and microphone, and a broadband internet connection (recommended minimum speed 5mbps).
Computer equipment and internet access is not provided as part of the course.
The length of time you will need to study depends on your current English level, and the English language entry requirements for the University course you intend to study in the UK.
In general, the further away you are from the English language requirements for your degree programme, the longer you will need to study a Pre-sessional English course for.
Our longest course is 40 weeks in duration, split across 4 terms, and is suitable for students who are no more than 2 full IELTS bands away from the English language entry requirements for their prospective University course (e.g.
a student with IELTS 5.0 overall, with at least 4.0 in every component who needs to reach IELTS 7.0 overall, with at least 6.0 in every component could join our 40 week Pre-sessional course).
If you join one of our longer Pre-sessional courses you may initially be placed into a General English class to help you reach an appropriate ability level for Academic English study.
As your language skills improve you will be able to progress into an Academic English class later in your Pre-sessional course.
Please see the 'Course dates, fees and entry requirements' section above for more details.
Please note: If the Pre-sessional Course you wish to attend is 28 weeks or more in duration then we do not require you to hold a conditional offer for a degree course at the University of Sheffield before you submit your Pre-sessional Course application.
If you are applying for a Pre-sessional Course which is under 28 weeks in length then you must hold and have accepted a conditional offer for a degree programme starting in the 2025-26 academic year at The University of Sheffield before we can make you an offer for our Pre-sessional English Course.
To apply for a Pre-sessional Course you need to submit your application through our online form .
Before submitting your application please read and take note of the following information:
Deadlines
The final deadline for applying to our in-person pre-sessional courses is 1 month before the course start date.
Specific deadlines for each pre-sessional course can be viewed on our entry requirements webpages.
We recommend applying at least 6 weeks before the start of the course so you can complete the application process and obtain a visa if you need one.
Entry Requirements
Please check that you meet the entry requirements for the pre-sessional course you are applying for.
See the 'Course Dates and Entry Requirements' section above for more information.
Further application guidance
You can find further information about how to complete an application to a Pre-sessional English course on our how to apply webpage:
Apply Now - Pre-sessional English
Please read our Terms and Conditions before submitting your application.
Information for Under 18s
Our courses are designed for adults.
Applicants who are under 18 are subject to a number of restrictions and administrative procedures.
The standard minimum age for our courses is 18 years.
However, we will consider applications from applicants who are under 18 in some circumstances, and subject to satisfactory guardianship arrangements being in place.
For further information on under 18s at the university please visit our "Students under the age of 18" webpage" .
About the English Language Teaching Centre
Full-time courses
Pre-sessional English Study Options

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time/online-pre-sessional:
Do you need to improve your English language and academic skills to meet the entry requirements for a degree course at The University of Sheffield in Autumn 2025?
Our fully online Pre-sessional English course can help you to do so.
Our fully online Pre-sessional English courses are designed to improve your English language and academic skills to meet the requirements for entry onto a degree programme at The University of Sheffield.
The course can be studied from your home country over the internet before you travel to the UK to begin your academic course at the university.
Our online Pre-sessional English Course is made up of the following components:
Every moment in ELTC is useful.
They use modern technology and modern techniques in teaching.
They are so supportive and encourage you to improve your skills.
Haider Al-Hamadani (Iraq)
PhD Mechanical Engineering
All times are UK local time (BST) and all lessons are taught online.
09:30 - 11:00 - Lesson 1
11:30 - 13:00 - Lesson 2
09:15 - 10:45 - Lesson 1
11:15 - 12:45 - Lesson 2
These tutorials will typically take place at a time between 1.30pm and 2.30pm.
There will be approximately 90 minutes per day of required asynchronous content, including readings, lectures, language practice activities, writing tasks and preparation for speaking tasks.
Please note: This timetable is currently provisional for Summer 2025 and may be subject to change.
We're offering two online Pre-sessional English courses in Summer 2025:
Your Overall IELTS score: No more than 1 IELTS band below the overall English language requirement for your degree course
You must also hold a conditional or unconditional offer to study a degree course beginning in September or October 2025 at The University of Sheffield before applying for this course
To view example entry requirements for this pre-sessional course based on the English language requirements for your degree programme please visit our Term 4 entry requirements webpage:
View example entry requirements
Cost: £3,150 (£525 per week)
Your Overall IELTS score: No more than half (0.5) an IELTS band below the overall English language requirement for your degree course
At least 5.5 in every component and no more than half (0.5) an IELTS band below the minimum IELTS component requirements for your degree course
The standard tuition fee for online Pre-sessional Course in Summer 2025 is £525 per week .
To access the online content, students will require a desktop or laptop computer with a webcam and microphone , and a broadband internet connection (recommended minimum speed 5mbps).
Tablets with a Blackboard compatible browser may also be used to access the course, however we strongly recommend students use a desktop or laptop computer ahead of a tablet device where possible.
No, as the course is online and a visa is not required to attend we can be more flexible with the English tests we can accept for entry purposes.
Acceptable tests include:
Our entry requirements for IELTS and LanguageCert exams can be viewed on this webpage .
If you have taken TOEFL iBT or Pearson PTE you can use the table on this webpage to convert your score into an IELTS equivalent score.
To apply for our online Pre-sessional Course you need to submit your application through our online application form.
Before submitting your application please read our terms and conditions and take note of the following information:
The final deadline for applying to our online pre-sessional courses is three weeks before the start date of each course.
We strongly recommend you submit your application as early as possible as places on the course are limited and we may have to stop accepting applications earlier than the standard deadline in the event of high demand.
See the 'Course dates and entry requirements' section above for more information.
Online Pre-sessional English - How to Apply
If you still have any questions about our online Pre-sessional English course then please get in touch by sending an email to eltc-admissions@sheffield.ac.uk and our Admissions Team will be happy to help.
Pre-sessional English Course Overview
Pre-sessional English Entry Requirements (Term 4 - Summer 2025)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/modules/term-1-entry-requirements:
The entry requirements for our Pre-sessional English courses are based on your most recent IELTS result (or equivalent) and the English requirements for the degree course you plan on studying.
To find out the example Pre-sessional English entry requirements for your situation, please select the IELTS entry requirement for your prospective degree course.
40 week course - IELTS 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.0 in each component
30 week course - IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component
11 week course - IELTS 7.0 overall with a minimum of 6.5 in each component
40 week course - IELTS 5.0 overall with a minimum of 4.5 in each component
30 week course - IELTS 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.0 in each component
11 week course - IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum of 6.0 in each component
40 week course - IELTS 4.5 overall with a minimum of 4.0 in each component
30 week course - IELTS 5.0 overall with a minimum of 4.5 in each component
11 week course - IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component
40 week course - IELTS 4.0 overall with a minimum of 4.0 in each component
30 week course - IELTS 4.5 overall with a minimum of 4.0 in each components
11 week course - IELTS 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.0 in each component
Please e-mail eltc-admissions@sheffield.ac.uk for further advice.
If you are not sure which course is suitable for you we recommend that you apply for your preferred course.
We can then make a recommendation based on your application.
This is much quicker than e-mailing us to ask before applying, and you are not committed to a course until you accept an offer from us.
You can find the entry requirements for your prospective degree course printed on your conditional offer letter, or in the University's online prospectus:
If you do not currently hold a conditional offer for a degree course, but plan to apply for one at a later date, you can still apply for one of our longer Pre-sessional English courses as long as it is at least 28 weeks in length.
For more information about applying for a degree course at the University of Sheffield, please read the University's webpages for prospective international students .
Start date: Monday 6 October 2025
End date: Friday 19 December 2025
Application Deadline: Monday 8 September 2025 at 11:59pm (BST)
Cost : £5,775 (£525 per week)
Your Individual IELTS component scores (Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening): At least 4.0 in every component and no more than half (0.5) an IELTS band below the minimum IELTS component requirements for your degree course
End date: Friday 5 June 2026
Cost : £15,750 (£525 per week)
Your Overall IELTS score: No more than 1.5 IELTS bands below the overall English language requirement for your degree course
Your Individual IELTS component scores (Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening): At least 4.0 in every component and no more than 1.5 IELTS bands below the minimum IELTS component requirements for your degree course
End date: Friday 4 September 2026
Cost : £21,000 (£525 per week)
Your Overall IELTS score: No more than 2 IELTS bands below the overall English language requirement for your degree course
Your Individual IELTS component scores (Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening): At least 4.0 in every component & no more than 2 IELTS bands below the minimum IELTS component requirements for your degree course
The content of our courses is reviewed annually to make sure it is up-to-date and relevant.
Individual modules are occasionally updated or withdrawn.
This is in response to discoveries through our world-leading research, funding changes, professional accreditation requirements, student or employer feedback, outcomes of reviews, and variations in staff or student numbers.
In the event of any change we'll consult and inform students in good time and take reasonable steps to minimise disruption.
Information last updated: 18 March 2025
Term 4 Summer 2025 Entry Requirements
ELTC Full-time Course Dates Overview

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/modules/term-2-entry-requirements:
40 week course - IELTS 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.0 in each component
29 week course - IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component
19 week course - IELTS 6.5 overall with a minimum of 6.0 in each component
40 week course - IELTS 5.0 overall with a minimum of 4.5 in each component
29 week course - IELTS 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.0 in each component
19 week course - IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each component
40 week course - IELTS 4.5 overall with a minimum of 4.0 in each component
29 week course - IELTS 5.0 overall with a minimum of 4.5 in each component
19 week course - IELTS 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.0 in each component
40 week course - IELTS 4.0 overall with a minimum of 4.0 in each component
29 week course - IIELTS 4.5 overall with a minimum of 4.0 in each component
19 week course - IELTS 5.0 overall with a minimum of 4.5 in each component
Start date: Monday 12 January 2026
Application Deadline: Monday 15 December 2025 at 11:59pm (GMT)
Cost : £9,975 (£525 per week)
Your Overall IELTS score: No more than 1 IELTS bands below the overall English language requirement for your degree course
Your Individual IELTS component scores (Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening): At least 4.0 in every component and no more than 1 IELTS bands below the minimum IELTS component requirements for your degree course
Cost : £15,225 (£525 per week)
Your Individual IELTS component scores (Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening): At least 4.0 in every component and no more than 1.5 IELTS bands below the minimum IELTS component requirements for your degree course
End date: Friday 18 December 2026
Your Individual IELTS component scores (Reading, Writing, Speaking and Listening): At least 4.0 in every component and no more than 2 IELTS bands below the minimum IELTS component requirements for your degree course
Information last updated: 24 June 2025
Full-time Pre-sessional English Course Overview
Term 1 Summer 2025 Entry Requirements

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time/academic-literacy-university-culture:
A 4 week full-time introduction to life as a student at the University of Sheffield in August 2025.
Designed to familiarise you with academic methods and British university culture, this programme offers you a head-start to university life before you begin your degree course.
Our unique 4 week Academic Literacy and University Culture programme is designed to give incoming University of Sheffield students the best possible start to life in the city and will equip you with the knowledge, skills and resources needed to succeed on your degree course.
We've created this programme to enable you to enjoy the benefits of familiarising yourself with life in Sheffield before your university degree, while becoming familiar with the university, it's facilities and resources.
Experience and feedback from students indicates that studying with us before your course will allow you to settle into university life and experience what the university and city have to offer.
Alongside becoming familiar with the local area and city, our tutors will enable you to develop your academic language and literacy skills, such as critical thinking and research skills which will set you on the path for academic success in your degree.
This is a varied programme which concentrates on familiarisation with and understanding of academic life while developing key academic language and literacy skills.
By completing this programme you will:
There are no formal assessments as part of this programme as you will already have the entry requirements for your degree programme.
We do offer opportunities for formative feedback and personal development in writing and speaking.
As you already have your entry requirements for your degree programme at the University of Sheffield.
After completing this Academic Literacy & University Culture programme you will progress onto your degree course.
This is a full-time programme taught face to face in Sheffield.
The programme begins on Monday 18 August and runs until Friday 12 September 2025.
This 4 week programme includes 15 hours of taught sessions, plus an individual tutorial on one afternoon each week.
All times are UK local time (BST)
Afternoon (after 2pm) - Library tour
Afternoon (after 2pm) - History tour of the campus
You will have a personal tutor assigned to you who you will meet regularly to discuss your work and progress on the course.
Tutorials will be scheduled on Monday, Thursday or Friday afternoons.
The standard tuition fee for our Academic Literacy and University Culture programme in Summer 2025 is £2,100 (£525 per week).
The programme tuition fee does not include accommodation or transportation costs.
To discover the range of accommodation options and travel information we have for students joining our Summer programmes, please read our accommodation and travel information webpage .
This programme is for students who hold a conditional or unconditional offer to study a degree course beginning in September or October 2025 at the University of Sheffield.
Applicants with a conditional degree course offer must have already met the English language requirements for their degree course to be eligible for this programme.
If you have not yet met the English language requirements for your degree course then we recommend you apply for a Pre-sessional English course instead of this programme.
Further information about this programme's entry requirements can be viewed on our Term 4 Entry Requirements webpage:
Term 4 Entry Requirements
If you hold an unconditional offer for your degree course then you can attend both the Academic Literacy and University Culture programme and your degree course on a single Student Visa obtained with a combined CAS .
If you meet the eligibility requirements for a combined CAS then there are additional English language tests that we can accept.
The following tests can be if you will be joining this programme using a combined CAS:
If you do not meet the requirements for a combined CAS, or have missed the deadline to request one, you must supply one of the 4 UKVI approved Secure English Language Tests shown below to join this programme.
If your academic course offer is still conditional but you have already met the English language requirements in full (or miss the deadline for applying for a combined CAS) you can attend this programme using a separate Student Visa.
You can then extend your initial Student Visa the UK between completing the Academic Literacy and University Culture programme and before starting your academic course at the University of Sheffield.
In order to do this you must provide a UKVI approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) at CEFR Level B1 or higher.
The current list of SELTs we can accept is as follows:
To apply for our Academic Literacy and University Culture programme you need to submit your application through our online form.
Deadline
Applications for Summer 2025 are now closed.
Please check that you meet the entry requirements for this programme.
See the 'Entry Requirements' section above for more information.
Pre-sessional English Courses
Contact us for further information

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time/social:
Our social programme gives you a chance to do activities outside of your studies.
It gives you more opportunities to practise your English and communication skills in an informal and relaxed way.
Our social programme includes weekly activities such as sport, conversation clubs and art groups, but may change due to student and staff interests.
Some activities may be online, but most are face-to-face.
You will be led by a staff member and use the facilities around the University.
All activities are open to our full-time students based at 78 Hoyle Street (in the main ELTC Building) and some are also open to our summer Pre-sessional students based on the campus and online too.
Many regular activities offered through the social programme are free of charge to current ELTC students, but some activities may have a small cost of a few pounds to cover entry fees, equipment hire or food and drink.
University English (UE) students also have educational visits and trips to places around Sheffield and further away.
Locations can include museums, art galleries, historical buildings and places of natural beauty and scientific interest.
All ELTC students can also have full access to a range of activities offered at the main University and we encourage you to take part.
These include over 350 clubs and societies at our Students' Union , and sporting facilities offered through University of Sheffield Sport and Physical Activity .
Accommodation and travel
Dates and fees

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/after-you-apply/arriving-sheffield/cas-application:
If your course starts in September 2025 and you have accepted an Unconditional offer, you will be able to request a CAS through your Pre-Registration tasks from June 2025.
If you are an International student, it is likely you will need a Student visa to study in the UK.
To apply for a Student visa, you will need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
The CAS is a unique reference number which confirms that the University has agreed to be your sponsor, and provides information about you and your course to UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
Please note that when students are issued with a CAS, they become subject to UKVI rules on monitoring International students.
This means that we will have to report you to UKVI if you do not register at the University, or if you do not attend your course.
Sections in bold text indicate where you need to do something.
We encourage you to apply for your CAS as soon as you are able to.
If you are applying from outside the UK and are not intending to use a priority service, you should submit your CAS application to the University at least 3 weeks before your course start date.
If you are using a priority service, the final deadline to submit your CAS application to us is 1 week before the latest possible start date for your course.
Please visit our New Students webpages for more information on late registration and start dates.
Arranging the CAS is one of the tasks completed as part of your Pre-Registration at the University of Sheffield.
You will be sent an email inviting you to begin Pre-Registration and giving you access to the Pre-Registration system when:
The CAS Application task will appear in the Pre-Registration system when
The CAS task will appear in the Pre-Registration system within 5 working days of you accepting an Unconditional offer of a study place at the University of Sheffield (and paying any associated fee deposit) or 4 months before the start of your course, whichever is later.
Open the CAS task within the Pre-Registration system and follow the on-screen instructions to activate your CAS application.
The Admissions Service will then prepare your CAS application.
When the CAS application is ready for you, it will become visible within the CAS task.
This should happen within 2 working days of you activating your CAS application.
We will send you an email inviting you to complete your CAS application.
Follow the instructions given in the email to complete your CAS application.
You should check that all the CAS Information is present and correct.
If any information is missing or incorrect, you will be able to enter the correct information.
When all the information is present and correct, you should confirm this by clicking the 'Submit' button.
This will submit your CAS application to the Admissions Service.
When you have submitted your CAS application, we will check it and submit your information to UKVI within 5 working days.
If you have made any errors or missed any sections, we will send your application back to you to amend and complete .
When we have sent your information to UKVI, UKVI will process it and allocate you a CAS number.
They will send this number to the University (not to you) and we will create a CAS Statement for you that includes this number and the information we used in your CAS application.
We will email you to tell you that your CAS number has been assigned and your CAS Statement is ready.
You will be able to view the CAS Statement by logging back in to your record in the Pre-Registration system.
Log in to your Pre-Registration account and check the information in CAS statement is correct.
When you have received your CAS Statement, you can apply for your visa via the UKVI website .
You will be able to apply for your visa a maximum of 3 months before the date your course is due to start if you are applying from inside the UK, or 6 months if you are applying from outside the UK.
If you are studying an in-person English language course at our English Language Teaching Teaching Centre and need a Student visa, you will need a CAS.
The following describes how to request a standard CAS for your ELTC course and explains the steps we have to undertake before your CAS can be issued.
Please visit our Combined CAS webpage for information about how to request a Combined CAS.
We will only arrange a CAS for you when:
When we send you an offer letter for your ELTC course, we will also send you a link to our Visa Request Form.
Complete the Visa Request Form to indicate whether you want a single CAS or a Combined CAS, or whether you have alternative immigration permissions to study in the UK.
When you have returned your Visa Request Form, the Admissions Service will check your response.
If you have requested a CAS, we will assess whether you are eligible for a CAS and activate your CAS application through your Pre-Registration tasks.
This can take up to 5 working days.
Follow the instructions in the email to complete your CAS application.
When you have submitted your CAS application to us, we will check it and submit your information to UKVI within 5 working days.
If you have made any errors or missed any sections, we will send your application back to you to amend and complete.
See the Combined CAS webpage for more information.
You can also read our answers to frequently asked questions about the process of arranging a CAS:
CAS frequently asked questions

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time/terms-and-conditions:
This page contains details of the terms according to which our offers are made, information on enrolment, sponsorship and methods of payment.
To enrol on a full time English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC) course, please send us:
Deposits are not required but evidence of funds or sponsorship will be required when applying for a visa.
The last date for receipt of applications is usually four weeks before the start of the course.
Normally we do not require an interview as part of the application process.
However, in certain circumstances we reserve the right to require an online interview to discuss the suitability of the course for the applicant and to confirm details relating to the application.
If you need a visa, please allow enough time for your visa application.
You must pay your fees before arrival or during the first week of your course.
Please note that if you do not pay by this time, you will not be allowed to continue your studies.
You may pay by:
We are unable to accept any tuition fee payments in cash.
ELTC will send you details on how to pay your tuition fees along with your offer letter.
We strongly advise you NOT to carry large quantities of cash (though you will need some cash when you first arrive in the UK).
If your tuition fees will be paid by a sponsor, we require you to provide a letter from your sponsor confirming this with your application.
The letter should include:
You must also present a letter of financial guarantee, however we understand that sometimes sponsors require applicants to obtain an offer before they will produce one.
In these circumstances it is acceptable to provide your financial guarantee later during the admissions process.
Acceptable sponsors include universities, government agencies, charitable organisations and registered international companies and the guarantee may be verified with your sponsor before we confirm your enrolment.
The ELTC reserves the right to refuse financial guarantees.
Some students need a further letter from their embassy in London after they arrive in England and before they begin their studies.
Check with ELTC if you are not sure about this.
You may not be able to start your course at ELTC until we have received this letter.
If you are participating in a course as a member of a group, payment arrangements will be made through your group organiser.
You may cancel your enrolment before the start of your course.
Course fees which have been paid in advance will be refunded but the following deductions will be made:
Please note that if you leave early or take an unauthorised break from your studies, you risk losing the money you have paid.
Fees will only be refunded in exceptional circumstances and at the discretion of the Director.
We are obliged to report any changes or cancellations to UK Visas and Immigration.
You must take up your place on time if possible.
The latest enrolment date for your course is stated on your offer letter.
It will not be possible to join your course after the latest enrolment date.
If you are unable to arrive on or before the latest enrolment date you should not travel to Sheffield as we cannot guarantee you will be allowed to enter the UK.
It is important that you make every effort to arrive on time to minimise the impact on your studies.
In the event that you believe you will not be able to arrive on time for your course, you must inform us by e-mail ( eltc@sheffield.ac.uk ) at the earliest possible opportunity.
If you arrive after the start date for your course your tuition fees will not be discounted or refunded for the period of the course you miss, apart from in exceptional circumstances at the discretion of the ELTC Director.
Please note that the ELTC does not offer an insurance package so you are strongly advised to arrange insurance to cover your health and possessions.
Students studying for less than 6 months are not eligible for free NHS treatment.
We advise students to read the University's Terms and Conditions upon Acceptance of an Offer .
These are included as an attachment with ELTC offer letter e-mails.
When registering, students enter into a contract with the University and are bound by University Regulations and English Law.
If students break TUOS regulations or English Law, they may be penalised.
The most severe penalty the University can apply is expulsion, which means the student is told to leave the University.
Conduct involving criminal, violent and/or abusive behaviour may lead to expulsion.
This means they would not be able to complete their current course or register on TUOS courses in the future.
Classes are not held on public holidays and ELTC is closed on those days.
Please note that there are no fee reductions for course weeks which include a public holiday.
Standard term dates and fees
If you were referred to ELTC by an agency, please include their details on your application form.
Term dates and fees

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/presessional/apply:
If you're applying for a Pre-sessional English course or Academic Literacy and University Culture programme at the English Language Teaching Centre, you'll find all the key information on this page.
You can apply to our Pre-sessional English courses and Academic Literacy and University Culture programme through our Alternative Routes and Programmes Application Form.
Alternative Routes and Programmes Application Form The form has comprehensive instructions for you to follow, and pop-up help is available on each page.
Before you apply you should read our full-time course terms & conditions in full.
If you have already started an application to a postgraduate course at the University you can login to the application form using the same username and password you created for your earlier postgraduate application.
If you have already applied for an undergraduate course, or have not yet started an application to a course at the University, you will need to enter your email address and create a password to access the application form.
The form is divided into seven sections which you must complete before you can submit your application.
If you wish to return at a later stage to complete your application you can save the information in each section and then log back in later using your email address and password.
If you are a University of Sheffield agent applying for an ELTC course on behalf of a student, please see the information here on how to submit an application through the Agent Portal .
You'll need to include certain documents to support your application, for example a recent English language certificate.
If your tuition fees will be paid by a sponsor (e.g.
a scholarship, your national government or an employer), please upload a letter from your sponsor confirming this.
If you do not yet have a letter confirming your sponsorship details you can supply this at a later date.
Your application will only be submitted to us when you click the 'Submit Application' button at the end of the application form.
After submitting your application you will not be able to go back and edit most of the form, but you will still be able to add new qualifications or documents which you have indicated you will provide later.
If you have any problems completing your online application, please contact our ELTC admissions team for support:
If you'll need a Student visa to study in the UK, you can find more information about when and how we'll arrange your CAS on our CAS Application webpage:
CAS Information Early applicants to our Summer Pre-sessional courses may be eligible for a combined CAS .
In-Person Pre-sessional English course details
Online Pre-sessional English course details
Academic Literacy and University Culture programme details
Apply for University English
Apply for Business and Professional English

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/language-support:
Our centre offers a wide range of English language support & development services to students and staff at the University of Sheffield.
Find out more below:
Free weekly part-time classes running throughout the Autumn and Spring semesters designed to develop your academic literacy, English language and communication skills.
More Information (student login required)
Free, subject-specific classes designed to develop your academic English, communication and academic literacy skills, taught in collaboration with your academic department.
More information (student login required)
Short and varied one off workshops and events designed to provide support with English language and academic study skills for University of Sheffield students.
Academic literacy and communication skills self-study resources for all university students.
View the resources
Get advice and support with your academic writing from our specialist tutors.
This service allows degree level University of Sheffield students to submit a piece of writing and receive expert feedback on it along with suggestions on how to improve in the future.
45 minute one-to-one online sessions for degree level University of Sheffield students to help you practise your communication skills in English.
Our specialist tutors can also answer any questions you may have about different aspects of English language, such as grammar or pronunciation.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/language-support/online-resources:
Academic literacy consists of the skills and language that you need in order to succeed within your academic department.
Meeting the expectations of your department is an essential component of academic writing at University.
You can use the resources we have created on this page to learn how to write correctly in the style required by your department, as well as how to avoid plagiarism.
Your Department Language Programme (DLP) tutor may refer you to these resources as part of your DLP course, or you can use any of the resources for self-study at your own leisure.
Click on the headings below to access the resources available in each area and a further definition of what it entails:
Cohesion is the way you use language to connect your ideas and show the progression of your argument
Cohesion resources
Coherence is when the ideas in your writing are logically connected and flow naturally from one to another
Coherence resources
Criticality is the ability to look at a piece of writing and identify different positions and biases within it
Criticality resources
Being able to read quickly and effectively is a key skill when studying at university
Academic reading resources
Genre analysis is the ability to identify a genre’s defining organization, language, intended audience and purpose
Genre analysis resources
Reflective writing is a type of writing that requires you to look back at past experiences and analyse them with the purpose of performing better in the future
Reflective writing resources
Business reports are a type of case study in which you analyse a particular business scenario/situation, apply business theories and evaluate it in order to suggest improvements
Resources for business reports
Paraphrasing is a key skill to learn to be able to effectively integrate sources into your writing
Paraphrasing resources
Summarising is the ability to take longer pieces of text and express them in a shorter form in your own words.
It is a key skill for referring to sources in your writing
Summarising resources
Synthesising is the ability to integrate different sources effectively into your writing
Synthesising resources
The lab report is an example from the genre family of methodology recounts.
Its aim is to describe the methods, procedures and experimental findings of research conducted by the student
Resources for lab reports
Academic vocabulary is really important to develop if you want to be able to write more accurately
Academic vocabulary resources
Building an argument is the ability to analyse, research, select, organise and develop ideas in order to present your readers with a clear point of view supported by evidence
Resources for building an argument
Academic presentations can be individual or group, assessed or informal, as part of a seminar or tutorial, but they all require effective communication skills, including clear use of signposting and functional language
Resources for academic presentations
Communicating with your tutors effectively can be tricky, especially if English is not your first language.
Whether it is face-to-face or by email, it is important that you communicate with your tutors clearly and respectfully
Resources for communicating with tutors
Further skills resources covering:
are available on the StudySkills@Sheffield hub: Visit StudySkills@Sheffield
Language Support Overview
Departmental Language Programme (login required)
English Language Support classes (login required)
Writing Advisory Service (login required)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/modules-research:
The English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC) is able to offer a range of credit-bearing modules to certain groups of University of Sheffield students.
Please look carefully at the information below and click on the modules that best suit you to get more information.
English Language modules offered for European Exchange and Study Abroad students visiting The University of Sheffield.
English Language modules for 1st and 2nd year undergraduates at the University of Sheffield with English as a second language.
We offer a range of helpful short courses, workshops and tutorials, providing support with thesis writing and language skills for postgraduate research (PhD) students.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/modules/european-exchanges-and-study-abroad:
The English Language Teaching Centre offers English Language credit-bearing modules to European Exchange and Study Abroad students in both semesters one and two.
The modules are split into 4 areas of English language study.
Please click the headings below to find further information about the content and assessment methods of the modules running in each semester.
The entry levels for each module are also stated and should be used as a guide to which are most suitable for you.
'English as a Foreign Language (Upper-Intermediate 1)' is a language module offered by the ELTC at Level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) - an internationally recognised benchmark of language ability.
More information on the CEFR .
The module will be working from the 'can do' statements from the CEFR.
For example, at B2 level, typical users can be expected to:
The EFL (Upper-Intermediate 1) module will focus on these kinds of practical language skills.
The module can be taken in Autumn semester one (ELT5610) and Spring semester two (ELT5602).
Each module is 12 weeks of 4 hours a week.
You should be a European Exchange, Study Abroad or visiting student whose first language is not English.
However, you should have an English level of at least 6.0 in IELTS, FCE (B), TOEFL IBT 87, CEF mid B2 or equivalent.
Those without a current language level score in a recognised exam can be given a placement test from the English Language Teaching Centre.
Priority for places will be given to those students who have English as a major subject in their home institution.
The module includes the improvement of English language skills in reading, writing, listening, speaking, as well as grammar, vocabulary and pronunciation.
The module is topic-based and will focus on areas on British society and culture.
The seminars will use a communicative approach to language teaching and encourage students to fully participate in the English language.
The module is assessed in the following ways:
'English as a Foreign Language (Advanced 1)' is a 20-credit language module offered by the ELTC at Level C1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) - an internationally recognised benchmark of language ability.
More information on the CEFR
For example, at C1 level, typical users can be expected to:
Your EFL (Advanced 1) module will give you these kinds of practical language skills.
The module can be taken in semester one (ELT5611) and semester two (ELT5621).
You should be a European Exchange, study abroad or visiting student whose first language is not English.
However, you should have an English level of at least 6.5 in IELTS, CAE (C), TOEFL IBT 91, CEF low C1 or equivalent.
'English Language and Culture (Contemporary Literature)' is a language module offered by the ELTC using the medium of literature for language improvement.
The module will be working towards the outcomes of;
The module can be taken in semester one.
There will be 12 classes of 2 hours each.
You should be a European Exchange, Study Abroad or Visiting Student whose first language is not English.
However, you should have an English level of at least 6.0 in IELTS, FCE (B), TOEFL IBT 79, CEF mid B2 or equivalent and no more than 7.0 in IELTS, CAE (B), TOEFL IBT 100, CEF C1 or equivalent.
There will be three assessments during the semester:
Please note: apart from these formal assessments, students will be expected to spend some time outside class reading and answering questions in preparation for class-work.
'English Language and Culture (News Media)' is a language module offered by the ELTC using the medium of news media for language improvement.
The module will be working towards the outcomes of:
Each week a different aspect of UK current affairs will be investigated from both a linguistic and cultural point of view, focussing on a range of news media.
Print, broadcast and online genres will be studied.
The classes will use a communicative approach to language teaching and encourage students to fully participate in the English language.
The assessment has two parts:
The module uses a multimedia approach to improve English language skills by exploring university culture.
Through the study of both linguistic and content features of a variety of texts from UK higher education institutions (documents, audio, video etc), students will have the opportunity to develop their English language skills in reading, writing, listening, speaking, as well as grammar, vocabulary and pronunciation.
Students will gain a better understanding of academic culture in UK universities and critically engage with language practices in academic contexts.
The module can be taken in semester one or in semester two.
There will be two assessments during the semester:
Please note: apart from these formal assessments, students will be expected to spend time outside class reading and answering questions in preparation for class-work.
'English for Academic Purposes (Reading and Writing)' is a language module offered by the ELTC focussing on the skills of reading and writing in an academic context and for language improvement.
The module includes the improvement of academic skills associated with the study and assessment of a variety of written genres in an English speaking higher education situation, as well as linked grammar and vocabulary.
The module can be taken in semester one (ELT5401) OR semester 2 (ELT5402).
There will be 12 classes of 2 hours each.
You should be a 1st or 2nd year undergraduate or a European Exchange, Study Abroad or Visiting Student whose first language is not English.
The module will be working towards the outcomes:
'English for Academic Purposes (Speaking and Listening)' is a language module offered by the ELTC focussing on the skills of speaking and listening in an academic context and for language improvement.
The module includes the improvement of academic skills associated with the study and assessment of a variety of spoken genres in an English speaking higher education situation, as well as linked grammar and vocabulary.
The module can be taken in semester one (ELT5411) OR semester 2 (ELT5412).
'English Language Teaching (TEFL:Practical)' is a module offered by the ELTC to students wishing to develop and enhance their skills in the teaching of English as a foreign language.
This module can be taken in semester 1.
This module is open to European Exchange and Study Abroad exchange students only and would suit those with an interest in or experience of teaching.
A high level of English is needed to take the module (IELTS 7.5+)
A minimum number of students are required for the module to open.
The module works towards the outcomes of;
'English as a Foreign Language (Upper-Intermediate 2)' is a language module offered by the ELTC at Level B2+ of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) - an internationally recognised benchmark of language ability.
For example, at B2+ level, typical users can be expected to:
The EFL (Upper-Intermediate 2) module will focus on these kinds of practical language skills.
The module can be taken in semester 2 only .
The module is 12 weeks of 4 hours a week.
You should be a European Exchange, Study Abroad or Visiting Student whose first language is not English.
You should have successfully completed ELT5610 - EFL (Upper-Intermediate 1) or you will be given a short placement test at the module registration event to make sure your level of English is appropriate for this level.
The module is topic-based and will focus on areas on British society and culture not covered in ELT5610.
'English as a Foreign Language (Advanced 2)' is a 20-credit language module offered by the ELTC at Level C1+ of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) - an internationally recognised benchmark of language ability.
More information on the CEFR, click on the link on the top right-hand side.
For example, at C1+ level, typical users can be expected to:
Your EFL (Advanced 2) module will give you these kinds of practical language skills.
The module can be taken in semester two.
You should have successfully completed ELT5611 - EFL (Advanced 1) or you will be given a short placement test at the module registration event to make sure your English language level is appropriate for this module.
The module is topic-based and will focus on areas on British society and culture not covered in ELT5611.
'English as a Foreign Language (Upper-Intermediate 1)' is a language module offered by the ELTC at Level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) - an internationally recognised benchmark of language ability.
'English as a Foreign Language' is a 20-credit language module offered by the ELTC at Level C1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) - an internationally recognised benchmark of language ability.
Your EFL module will give you these kinds of practical language skills.
The module can be taken in semester two only.
Each module is 12 weeks of 4 hours.
You should be a European Exchange or Study Abroad student whose first language is not English.
However, you should have an English level of at least 6.5 in IELTS, FCE (A+) or equivalent.
The module can be taken in semester one OR in semester two.
'English Language and Culture (Film)' is a language module offered by the ELTC using the medium of British film for language improvement.
Over the semester a selection of British films will be studied.
The films selected for study represent different genres in British filmography and portray different aspects of British culture.
All the films are widely recognised and valued for their quality of script, photography, plot or cultural influence.
Please be advised that some of the films chosen contain elements of violence, drug use, sex and/ or strong language, as well as other potentially sensitive thematic elements.
Each week a different aspect of the films will be investigated from both a linguistic and cultural point of view.
Print and online film reviews will be studied to supplement the watching of each film.
This module considers the practical applications of digital technology in language learning and offers students the opportunities to develop their English language and communication skills, digital citizenship, global awareness and critical thinking skills.
We will look at different types of technologies to enhance interactional skills and language development, and consider how to use these responsibly, ethically and effectively.
This module is aimed at students at B2 English level of the CEFR.
The module will be working towards to outcomes of:
The module is offered in Spring semester only.
There will be 12 classes of 2 hours per week.
The module is aimed at students who have an English level of at least 6.0 in IELTS, FCE (B),  TOEFL IBT 78, CEF mid B2 or equivalent.
These 20-credit general English modules focus on the 4 skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking, as well as vocabulary, pronunciation and grammar while covering topics on aspects of British society.
The module is available at 2 levels (Upper-intermediate and Advanced), so that you are taught and assessed at the right language level.
The course combines both skills and language classes and you are required to attend 2 classes of 2 hours per week (total 4 hours a week).
The 2-hour skills classes aim to improve the 4 skills through reading texts, watching videos, completing tasks, group discussions/debates and giving presentations.
The weekly 2-hour language classes cover areas of grammar, lexis and phonology rising from the topics and texts in the skills sessions and includes time to investigate areas of linguistic interest/difficulty suggested by the participants.
Class sizes are a maximum of 20 and will allow space to practise language in a relaxed, yet purposeful setting.
See below for more information on the EFL modules and language entry levels.
These 10-credit language modules focus on a specific area of English-speaking culture and the literary genres associated with it.
Language skills and accuracy is facilitated through the close study of a range of texts (mainly British) in the areas of Literature, News Media, Technology, Film and University Culture.
The 2-hour classes encourage discussion and reflection of the cultural and linguistic issues raised in the texts.
See below for more information on the individual modules.
Please note - these are primarily English language modules, not subject modules.
These 10-credit modules focus on the use of the English language in academic and professional situations.
Both the areas of 'Reading and Writing' and 'Speaking and Listening' are covered in two individual modules, so that the specific text types and associated language can be studied in sufficient depth.
The modules will not only complement your current university study in the UK, but will also prove your capability in transferable professional skills.
See above for more information on the EAP modules.
This 10-credit module focuses on the practical skills needed in Teaching English as a Foreign Language.
Lesson planning, materials development, classroom management and teaching techniques are all covered.
This module would suit those students with an interest in or experience of teaching.
A high level of English is needed to take the module (IELTS 7.5+) and the assessment is based on the delivery of 2 x 20-min lessons and a portfolio of the associated documentation.
Information last updated: 2 October 2024
Global Opportunities - Information for visiting students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/english-module-options:
If you are a first or second year undergraduate student and would like to develop your English language and communications skills, the ELTC offers modules for credit and not-for-credit.
The ELTC offers 10 credit modules in the area of English for Academic Purposes (EAP).
Modules in both EAP Reading and Writing and EAP Speaking and Listening are open for enrolment to first and second year University of Sheffield undergraduate students.
These modules will help you to develop your English language, intercultural awareness, and enhance your communication skills in an academic context.
Learning takes place in interactive group classes with guided independent learning.
The modules can be taken in either the Autumn or Spring semester.
It is not possible to repeat a module on the same topic in an academic year.
For example, you cannot take ELT5401 EAP Reading and Writing in the Autumn semester and ELT5402 EAP Reading and Writing in the Spring semester as the module content is repeated.
You can however take an EAP Reading and Writing module in the Autumn semester, and an EAP Speaking and Listening module in the Spring semester (or vice-versa).
Information about the course content, assessment and entry requirements are available on our European Exchange and Study Abroad modules page under the English for Academic Purposes heading.
You can either study a language as part of your degree (through guided module choice) or alongside your degree (not-for-credit modules).
All degrees in the UK consist of 120 credits per year.
At the University of Sheffield, undergraduate modules are typically worth credits in multiples of 10 (for example 10 credits or 20 credits per module).
A student must enrol for modules totalling 120 credits record each year.
Some degrees, such as Medicine, assign all 120 credits to core modules creating a rigid degree structure for all students on that programme.
However, many of our degree programmes incorporate a guided module choice process, to enable students to diversify their learning experience by choosing relevant modules either within or outside of their home school.
If you choose to enrol for an ELTC EAP module through guided module choice, the module will:
You can make your selections for your guided modules via online module choice (University log-in required) if you are a continuing student, or via online guided module choice if you are a new student.
The University of Sheffield offers language study as an extra-curricular activity in addition to studies within degree programmes.
Not-for-credit modules will:
There are two ways in which students can enrol on not-for-credit modules through the Languages for All (LfA) programme :
Your main degree programme cannot include any unrestricted credits (please check with your home school) to enrol through this route.
There is no fee to enrol via a Languages for All fee waiver, but minimum attendance and coursework criteria apply.
University of Sheffield students who receive a fee waiver under the Languages for All scheme must:
Languages for All Cancellation policy A applies to this option.
To enrol through through this route as a fee waiver not-for-credit student please email eltc@sheffield.ac.uk
Students that do not meet the eligibility criteria for a fee waiver can enrol as a LfA self-funded student.
A fee applies for LfA self-funded students.
Courses cost £270 for 1 semester and £480 for 2 semesters.
Languages for All cancellation policy B applies to this option.
To enrol through through this route as a self-funded not-for-credit student please email eltc@sheffield.ac.uk
To check if you are eligible for a fee waiver, and to view further details about the each cancellation policy, please visit the Languages for All programme's eligibility web page .
You can find more information about the ELTC modules by contacting the us at eltc@sheffield.ac.uk .
Credit modules for European Exchange and Study Abroad students
Languages for All programme information

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time:
Join us for both short and long periods of study.
With online and in-person courses, we're confident that we can help you to choose the right course to suit your needs.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time/university-english:
Our University English courses are ideal for anyone who wants to improve their English language skills.
We offer both a full programme and a core programme, both of which are designed to improve your English language skills for a variety of educational, personal and professional reasons.
You can choose to join University English on our full programme , which includes 20.5 hours of tuition per week - this option covers Integrated Language Skills, a weekly culture lecture, afternoon elective modules, and educational visits to culturally significant locations.
Alternatively, you may opt for our University English core programme , which is an integrated language skills course involving 15 hours of tuition per week.
If you're interested in learning English but have limited time or a smaller budget, we recommend the core programme.
However, if you'd like to explore English alongside British Culture or take a specific afternoon elective, the full-time programme would be the better choice.
University English is General English development course offering designed to improve your English Language skills, we offer both a full and core programme to suit all needs.
Our experienced tutors will support you to develop your overall English language skills on this intensive course, with flexible start and end dates all through the year.
Classes are provided at all levels from Elementary (A2) to Advanced (C1).
The course is not suitable for complete beginners.
Before we can offer you a place on the course, you will need to provide some evidence of your current level of English with your application such as an English language test result (e.g IELTS, Pearson PTE, TOEFL iBT or Cambridge English PET/FCE/CAE).
If you have any other evidence of your English level, please contact us to discuss whether it is acceptable for admissions purposes.
Our University English courses includes tuition and language practice in the following areas:
During the course students will also receive regular 1 to 1 tutorials with an ELTC tutor.
These tutorials are similar to a private lesson and students can choose which areas of English they would like to focus on.
The ELTC's language tutorials offer students the opportunity to receive individual teaching and be directly involved in setting their own language goals.
In these sessions, students can choose to study an area of the language which interests them.
The overall purpose of these lessons is to provide students with further language practice and improve their confidence in dealing with English language.
We offer a range of different options classes.
For example, a student could choose IELTS Examination Preparation and Practice, Grammar and Vocabulary Development, Social English and British Culture, or Reading and Speaking.
Students may wish to study for a specific purpose, for example, IELTS Examination Preparation and Practice, or Business English.
Please note, there needs to be enough demand from students for an option class to run.
The purpose of these interactive resources is to help students develop their language skills in their own time outside of class.
Our teachers will explain how to use these resources and will discuss specific areas for development in individual student tutorials.
Students are advised to complete at least 2 hours of independent study each week to fully benefit from this.
In some circumstances we may be able to offer University English with fewer hours per week compared to the standard course timetable.
Please contact the University English Academic Director, Helen Johnstone , to discuss your requirements further.
Progress will be assessed by each student's class tutor and on longer courses students may be offered the opportunity to move into a higher level class.
At the end of the course students will be provided with a report and certificate showing details of the course and the level they studied at.
The ELTC offers a number of external assessments such as IELTS or Cambridge Linguaskill (charges apply) which can optionally be taken during your course.
English Tests at the ELTC
Please note that results from University English cannot be used to gain entry onto academic programmes at the University of Sheffield.
The courses run through the full academic year with four start dates available at the start of each of our four terms .
The length of the course is flexible and you can choose to finish your course on any Friday within our standard term dates (except for the first Friday in a term).
The minimum course length is 2 weeks, and the maximum course length is 40 weeks.
Students do not require an IELTS for UKVI certificate, but we prefer if you can provide some evidence of each student's English level as the course is not suitable for complete beginners.
A formal English language certificate is not required.
No teaching takes place on this course on UK bank holidays in England and Wales .
No tuition fee discounts are available for course dates which coincide with bank holidays.
Tuition fees for the Full Programme University English courses beginning in the 2024-25 and 2025-26 academic year are £459 per week .
Tuition fees for the Core Programme University English courses beginning in the 2025-26 academic year are £310 per week .
Paying your tuition fees is a crucial part of registration at the University.
Our ELTC exclusive social programme is available to all students on our University English courses.
During Term 4 in the Summer for a small charge we offer weekend day-trips exclusively for University English students to nearby cities such as Manchester, York, Lincoln, Leeds and Liverpool.
What we offer through our social programme
To apply for a University English Course please read our how to apply information and terms and conditions before submitting your application.
Please also take note of the following information:
The usual deadline for applying to our University English course is 4 weeks before your chosen course start date.
The courses are not suitable for beginners, however there are no set IELTS requirements to join the course.
Please contact us if you are unsure of your suitability for the course.
You will need to provide a copy of your passport and evidence of your English level (e.g.
a recent English test result) when completing your application - please make sure you have these ready before starting your application.
If you've studied in the UK before you will also need to provide a copy of all previous UK visas and CAS statements you have received.
If your nationality is listed on the UK Government's visa national list , you may be requested to supply further information regarding your application before an offer to join the course can be issued.
a scholarship, your national government or an employer), please also provide a letter from your sponsor confirming this.
If you need more information you can contact us in the following ways:
Email eltc@sheffield.ac.uk
Phone +44 114 222 1780

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time/special-courses:
Learn more about arranging a special or bespoke course at the ELTC.
The English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC) is part of The University of Sheffield and one of the largest university language centres in the UK .
Our staff have substantial experience in organising special courses to meet the needs of our clients.
It's possible to customise our existing courses, such as University English by adding elements or substituting part of the course.
At certain times we can also organise closed courses for visiting groups who have a particular area of interest.
Specialist lectures are available to students travelling to Sheffield for our bespoke in-person courses.
We run an annual summer programme for the University of Tokyo , one of the world's leading research institutions.
This group receives an exclusive two week programme which includes specialist lectures from experts in academic departments across the University in a range of subject areas.
These sessions are highly interactive, as the group is also joined by current students from the University of Sheffield, whose presence can help to actively promote discussion and boost students' confidence in spoken English.
We are leaders at our Centre in the field of online language learning; our latest BALEAP inspection described our Technology Enhanced Learning as "sector-leading” and noted that our “impressive use of digital platforms put students at a great advantage”.
For groups who are unable to travel to Sheffield, we have a range of experience in meeting the needs of partner institutions to provide online programmes which can be studied from anywhere in the world.
We've previously welcomed a group of students from Mie University in Japan for a week-long programme which featured three online specialist subject lectures delivered by academics from University of Sheffield departments, and would be happy to discuss any requirements you may have for a bespoke online programme.
We understand the value of language exchanges for building confidence in spoken communication.
With this in mind, we have previously organised bespoke courses involving tandem learning sessions for students from Chiba University in Japan and Jeju National University in South Korea, who were partnered with British students simultaneously learning either Japanese or Korean.
Tandem learning projects such as these are a great way for students to enrich their oral communication skills and learn about different cultures in a relaxed setting, and during University term-time we are able to collaborate with other language departments at the University of Sheffield to offer this alongside our standard programme.
If this is something which may be of interest to your customer or client, please let us know.
Our bespoke Business and Professional English programme is an excellent way for professionals to strengthen their communication skills in the workplace.
Companies including the CERATIZIT Group , KDI Corporation and TOYO Aluminium K.K.
regularly send personnel to join this programme, helping their employees to develop fluency and tangible leadership skills within a business context.
Our Business English programme can be customised with additional 1 to 1 lessons and subject specific tuition.
These highly-focused, individual sessions can help students consolidate material covered in class and also to discuss areas of interest with their tutor in greater depth.
These may include fields such as marketing, finance, technical English or human resources, among others.
Besides learning about contemporary business and management practices in class, students can also gain an insight into a range of relevant businesses within the local area.
As a former manufacturing heartland, Sheffield is home to a number of different industries which students can visit as part of their programme, for example:
Students with expertise in areas such as civil engineering may wish to visit engineering-specific sites, for example, the University's Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre , founded originally with Boeing, which is one of the world's leading research and innovation networks.
We have also provided bespoke programmes for groups of district governor trainees from the Turkish Ministry of the Interior , which include special additional elements related to their future careers in government, for example, a visit to Westminster and the Houses of Parliament, and a supervised research project focusing on aspects of British public governance.
All applicants are warmly invited to join in with our core social programme, which offers a range of activities, sports, quizzes, conversation clubs and outings to different cities.
These activities offer the perfect opportunity for students to get to know Sheffield along with their classmates.
We can also consider arranging additional activities and trips as part of a bespoke study package.
This might include visits to local businesses (see 'Industry Specific Programmes' above for examples) or a closed trip to a location within the UK.
Students on ELTC courses can join in with activities, events, clubs and societies at the University's Students' Union .
We are happy to assist with booking accommodation for your clients, whether they prefer to be allocated to student flats close to ELTC, or a homestay placement, which can be arranged in partnership with our agent.
While student flats tend be a great option for students who want a flexible schedule, homestay can offer a valuable experience for those seeking to immerse themselves in local life.
Students who opt for homestay can expect to gain additional speaking practice through staying with a local family, who will be there to provide support as they navigate a new city and its customs.
We regularly receive excellent feedback from students and hosts alike, with many forming enduring friendships and continuing to stay in touch long after the placement has finished.
We have been a host family for the ELTC for around ten years and really enjoy it.
The students are great, they fully embrace their time in Sheffield, love getting involved in activities in and out of the university and are a great addition to family life.
I'd highly recommend you give it a try.
Liz Finnigan
Homestay host
To minimise stress, we are also able to organise pre-booked transport on arrival (including a meet-and-greet service), removing the need for newly-arrived students to navigate public transport systems or grapple with currency.
We can provide coach bookings for groups or a taxi transfer for individuals.
This service is also available on departure from Sheffield.
The University of Sheffield supports students through every stage of their programme.
Students are sent advice about the support services offered by the University before they start their course, and are provided with further information through a presentation in the first week of their course.
Our advice is designed for English language learners and outlines the services available to help students solve any problems they might experience.
ELTC provides its students with a good level of pastoral care and is a safe and secure environment.
The leisure programme is very varied and well resourced and managed.
Care of students and leisure opportunities are areas of strength.
British Council
November 2019 Inspection Report
If you are interested in arranging a bespoke course for a group of students we would be delighted to hear from you.
Initial enquiries can be sent to our academic director Helen Johnstone by email:
h.johnstone@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/full-time/apply:
You can apply for an English Language Teaching Centre course by following the instructions on this webpage.
Pre-sessional English - Open for applications.
Please submit your application at least four weeks before your chosen course begins to allow enough time to apply for a visa.
Please visit our entry requirements webpages for further information on specific courses, application deadlines and start dates:
University English - Open for applications.
Please submit your application at least two weeks before your chosen start date, or four weeks before if you still need to apply for a visa.
You can currently apply online for the following courses:
There are different application processes for our full-time courses.
Please select the course you wish to apply to below to be taken to the application form for it:
Pre-sessional English
Academic Literacy and University Culture programme
University English
Before submitting your online application please take note of the following information:
If you have any issues completing the form please email eltc-admissions@sheffield.ac.uk for assistance.
You can also send an initial enquiry about bespoke courses through our online enquiries form .
ELTC Full-time Course Terms and Conditions

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/part-time/free:
The ELTC runs part-time and full-time teacher training courses (Cambridge CELTA) throughout the year.
The trainees on these courses are preparing to become English language teachers.
We need volunteers to join these classes so that our trainee teachers can practise their teaching.
Our Free English classes are a great way of learning English language in a relaxed environment and volunteers enjoy and benefit from these classes.
The Free English classes are not part of a course.
If you wish to join these classes, you will do so as a volunteer not a student.
Certificates and student cards are not provided.
The classes may also be recorded for training purposes.
To join our free English classes you must:
For face-to-face classes you must live in the UK and be able to come to classes at our building in Sheffield.
For online classes, you can be in any country, but you must have an adequate internet connection and a computer with a microphone and a camera.
Unfortunately, our free English classes are NOT suitable for people who:
Our free classes take place in blocks throughout the year.
Each block of classes is taught alongside one of our CELTA teacher training courses .
You can sign up to attend more than one block of classes, but you must be able to attend at least 80% of the classes in each block.
The next set of free English class dates are not yet confirmed.
Please check again later for updates.
All the face-to-face free English classes take place at:
The English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC) University of Sheffield 78 Hoyle Street Sheffield S3 7LG
Our classrooms are on D floor .
For directions to our centre, please click here .
All our online classes take place on Zoom.
You will need to download Zoom onto your computer to join these classes.
To sign up for the classes, please click the link below and fill in the application form:
Free English classes application form
After you complete the application form we will add your details to our waiting list.
When a place in the free classes becomes available we will send you an email inviting you to attend the free classes.
These free classes are popular, so you might have to wait a few weeks before a place in the free classes becomes available for you.
If you have any questions about joining the free classes, please contact tefl@sheffield.ac.uk for assistance.
For more information on how we hold and process your personal data, please see the Privacy Notice for free English class volunteers .
About the ELTC

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/teacher-training:
We offer a range of teacher training courses, qualifications and events at the English Language Teaching Centre.
If you're an experienced English language tutor, or considering a career in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL), our teacher training programmes can help.
A widely recognised initial teaching qualification.
Full and part-time courses available.
A professional qualification for experienced English language teachers.
A practical course for new teacher trainers.
An innovative online course designed to help teachers feel more confident and capable of using technology in the classroom.
We can offer custom teacher training and development courses to fit your requirements.
Our Instructional Design for Language Teachers course can help experienced teachers design flipped and asynchronous materials.
Thinking about a career in teaching English?
Give it a go with a 3 hour TEFL Taster session.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/teacher-training/celta:
The Certificate in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (CELTA) is an initial qualification for people with little or no previous English teaching experience and is awarded by Cambridge Assessment English, part the University of Cambridge.
You may be considering a career in English Language Teaching and view CELTA as an entry into a good teaching position in another country, or you may want a qualification that provides a sound basis in the fundamentals of language teaching practice and gives you confidence in the classroom.
The Cambridge CELTA (Certificate in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) is the essential TEFL qualification that’s trusted around the world.
It’s a practical English Language Teaching qualification It gives you hands-on teaching practice in the classroom
71.5% of English Language Teaching employers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa requested CELTA based on research from November 2017 to January 2018 .
It was a thoroughly rewarding experience with really supportive tutors.
It has really helped me to develop my teaching skills and opened my mind to a lot of different techniques!
I’d highly recommend the course to anyone looking to teach abroad.
I’ve secured a job teaching in China.
I go at the end of this month, and I couldn’t have done it without my CELTA experience!
Rachel
Part-time CELTA Student
The qualification is definitely worth it, not only because it has opened many more doors for me but also because of the friendships made during that time.
The course is a huge commitment and you do have to be dedicated to undertake it.
I would definitely recommend the course to anyone who is considering it, especially those who learn better practically and in house.
Kate
Intensive CELTA Student
Course dates: 29 September 2025 – 19 December 2025
Course times: Weekly - Thursday and Friday - 9.30am – 4.00pm
Course length: 12 weeks
This part-time, face-to-face course allows you to study whilst managing other commitments.
Sessions are delivered by our team of experienced tutors on the University campus in Sheffield.
You will be supported and guided on lesson planning, classroom management, language analysis and more.
Through a range of practical and interactive sessions, you will develop and practise the skills and confidence needed to teach English.
Trainees must commit to attending 100% of the course.
In addition to the scheduled hours, trainees are expected to do approximately 8 - 10 hours of independent study a week.
Fees for this course will be £1650 plus the Cambridge Assessment fee of £184.
Course dates: 13 October 2025 – 20 March 2026
Course times: Weekly - Monday and Wednesday - 9.30am – 1.00pm
Course length: 20 weeks
This part-time, fully online course allows you to study whilst managing other commitments.
The teaching takes place on zoom and the input is provided through an online, self-study portal, meaning you can attend from anywhere in the world.
As you are teaching and studying online, you need to have a good level of computer literacy, but there will be support using the teaching platform.
In addition to the scheduled hours, trainees are expected to do approximately 6 hours of independent study a week.
Face-to-face, part-time CELTA: January - May 2026
Course dates: 29 January 2026 to 8 May 2026 May 2026
Course times: Weekly on Thursday and Friday - 9.30am to 4.00pm
Online, part-time, with two week in-person intensive teaching block CELTA: January to May 2026
Course dates: 12 January 2026 to 8 May 2026 (with Easter vacation from 30 March to 17 April 2026)
Course Description: This blended CELTA delivers input mostly asynchronously via Cambridge's CELTA platform.
This allows applicants to manage their own schedule and to complete the sessions independently, whilst also contributing to online forums and collaborative tasks.
In addition to this, a bi-weekly 'class live' is offered.
This is a live, online session led by a CELTA tutor which trainees are encouraged to attend.
This session will be at 3:00pm (UK time) every other Tuesday.
The Teaching Practice for this course will be face-to-face and will take place over a two-week block at the ELTC in Sheffield.
This stage of the course is intensive and demanding.
We advise that trainees limit other commitments during this time, and that they are able to attend the full 2 weeks.
Course Timetable
12 January 2026: Induction week
19 January - 23 March 2026: Part-time, asynchronous study online with a 90 minute online live session every two weeks.
You should expect to commit approximately 6 - 8 hours of independent study a week to this stage of the course.
30 March - 17 April 2026: Vacation weeks and independent study.
20 April to 1 May 2026: In-person teaching block dates
This stage of the course is full-time and intensive.
Teaching practice is in-person (in Sheffield) and takes place Monday to Friday between 9:30am and 5:30pm.
4 May to 8 May 2026: This is the final week of the course and is delivered online.
Course Dates: 3 August 2026 to 28 August 2026
Course Times: Monday to Friday 9:30am - 5:30pm
Course length: 4 weeks
This full-time, in-person CELTA takes place over four weeks.
All input and teaching assessment will be in-person at the ELTC in Sheffield.
It is recommended that applicants ensure they have minimal commitments during the four weeks, and that they are able to attend 100% of the course.
Fees for this course are not yet finalised and applications to it will open once they are confirmed.
Please note: There is no difference in the content, assessment and recognition of online and face-to-face CELTA courses.
Our Online CELTA courses are an ideal way to complete the course if you are currently working or based outside of Sheffield.
Each course requires a minimum of 6 participants to run.
Fees for all CELTA courses are £1,650 (plus the Cambridge Assessment fee of £184 for courses in the 2025-26 academic year)
The fee covers:
If you are interested in taking a CELTA course at our centre, please complete the application form:
CELTA Application Form
After receiving your completed form, our Teacher Training team will contact you.
If your initial application is successful, you will be sent a pre-interview task to complete.
This task helps us to assess your suitability for the course, and gives you a better understanding of what the course involves.
Once you've returned your completed task to us, we review your application.
If successful, you will be invited to one of the weekly interview slots.
The deadline for applications is usually 2 weeks before the start of a course.
However, if this deadline has passed, please contact the TEFL team to see if places are still available.
Please be aware of the following information before applying :
If you have any questions or queries about CELTA, please check our frequently asked questions .
If you can't find an answer to your question in the CELTA FAQ, please contact our Teacher Training team for assistance.
Email tefl@sheffield.ac.uk with the subject line 'CELTA query.'
CELTA application form
CELTA frequently asked questions

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/teacher-training/delta:
DELTA is one of the best-known and most popular advanced TEFL/TESOL qualifications in the world.
It is a flexible way for experienced English language teachers to progress further in their careers.
We offer fully online, part-time DELTA Module 1 and Module 3 preparation courses at the English Language Teaching Centre, and also offer a Local Tutor service in partnership with NILE for Module 2.
For further information about our upcoming courses, please click on the relevant links below.
DELTA Module 1 - Understanding language, methodology and resources for teaching (20 credits)
DELTA Module 2 - Developing professional practice (20 credits)
DELTA Module 3 - Extending practice and English language teaching specialism (20 credits)
By following these links, you can access some sample materials and tasks from our Module 1 and 3 courses.
Excellent - very focused and energetic.
The sessions focusing on preparing for the exam were particularly helpful.
I found this really helped me to visualise the requirements of the question.
Sarah Walsh
ESOL tutor, Ireland
Nick has been a teacher trainer since 2008 and works on the ELTC's CELTA, DELTA and Being a Teacher Trainer courses, as well as on the MA in Applied Linguistics with TESOL in the School of English.
Nick is a co-author of ETpedia Teacher Training .
Manuel works on the department's TKT, CELTA and DELTA courses, alongside other tailored teacher training courses and the School of English's MA Applied Linguistics teaching practice module.
I thought Nick and Beth did a great job handling the course between them and have been very helpful throughout the course.
Georgina Blewett
General English Teacher, UK
To apply for a DELTA preparation course please complete the appropriate application form for your chosen module below:
Application form - DELTA Module 1
Application form - DELTA Module 2
Application form - DELTA Module 3
Any initial queries and completed Module 2 application forms can be sent to our TEFL Admin Team at tefl@sheffield.ac.uk
I think I have learnt a lot and I can definitely see a difference in my teaching compared to last year.
Luz Gonzalez
General English Teacher, Mexico
For more information about the Delta Modules, please visit Cambridge Assessment English’s website .
The full syllabus can be downloaded below:
DELTA Qualification Syllabus (pdf, 234kb)
The tasks were wholly relevant and interesting.
They also made us aware that we would need to devote a good few hours each week to self-study in order to be ready for the exam, as well as to develop professionally, of course.
Robert Jackson
EAP Teacher, Spain
Cambridge English Language Assessment DELTA Webpage
CELTA
Other Teacher Training courses at the ELTC

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/teacher-training/learning-technologies-eap:
Our Learning Technologies in EAP course is an online programme designed to help EAP teachers feel more confident and capable using technology in their classrooms and with their students.
If you are an EAP teacher, see value in using technology but lack the confidence to go into the classroom and try things out, this course is for you.
Or maybe you’ve tried using technology with students in the classroom but things haven’t gone as successfully as you hoped.
This course will give you the confidence and skill set to use technology comfortably in class and to advise students on how they can use technology outside the classroom for self-study purposes.
Please note that this is a practical course, so it is strongly recommended that you only take the course if you will actually be teaching students during it.
This will make it far more meaningful as you can try out things on a weekly basis and share your experiments with the other people on the course.
Over the eleven weeks, you will learn:
Each module follows a cycle of experiencing a particular technology as a student, reflecting on that experience, trying it out in the classroom and then reflecting further on how it went.
Clear instructions for how to use the technology is provided through simple step-by-step guides, and there are also regular tips on other technology tools you can use in your classes.
The next course dates are to be confirmed .
We will update this webpage when the next course dates are available.
On average you will need to spend around 3-4 hours a week engaging with the course materials and your fellow participants to get the most out of the course.
A certificate of completion will be awarded to all participants who successfully finish the course.
The course cost is to be confirmed for the 2024-2025 academic year.
If an institution pays in bulk for 5 or more participants, they will receive a 20% discount on the total cost.
The funds from the paid participants on the course will contribute towards allowing five teachers from developing countries to participate on the course.
Applications for the course are currently closed.
They will reopen when the next set of course dates are confirmed.
We will be in contact you with further details within 10 working days of receiving your application.
The funs from the paid participants will contribute towards allowing three to five teachers from developing countries to participate on the course.
Scholarship Application Form
This course blends theory and practice beautifully.
I learnt about some great tools and their purposes AND got to use them in my classes - my EAP classes will never be the same again!
Carol Wild
Canterbury Christ Church University
Learning Technologies in EAP: A Practical Online Course for Teachers was nominated as a finalist of the 15th British Council ELTons Awards for Innovation in English Language Teaching 2017 in the Innovations in Teacher Resources category.
The course was selected as a finalist by a panel of experts from among 115 international products, publications and services as meeting the stringent criteria of innovation and practical functionality.
For more information about the ELTons Innovation Awards, please visit the ELTons Innovation Awards page .
Privacy notice: prospective, current and former student data

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/teacher-training/instructional-design-language-teachers:
Our Instructional Design for Language Teachers course is designed for anyone teaching at a language school who needs to develop online materials for courses.
You could be a teacher or a member of clerical or technical staff with special responsibilities for creating interactive content to add to a virtual learning environment.
This could be to complement face to face teaching, or an online course.
This is a fully online course which you can take at your own pace.
Our most recent Instructional Design for Language Teachers course started on 7 October 2024.
Our next course dates are to be confirmed.
On average, you will need to spend 5-6 hours a week engaging with the course materials and your fellow participants to get the most out of the course.
Tuition fee
The course fee for 2024-25 is £375 .
This includes all learning materials, tutor support and 1 hour of live tuition via Zoom each week.
You can submit an application through our online form which will be available here when the course dates are confirmed.
We will contact you with further instructions on how to enrol for the course within 10 working days of receiving your application.
This course is designed for people with a reasonable comfort level with technology.
To be able to participate in the course we recommend you should be comfortable:
The course is 10 weeks long and the course modules are released on a Monday at 10.00 (UK time)
We estimate around 5-6 hours a week.
This is a reasonably intensive course that does require time to work through the content and get comfortable with the various technology tools used to create content.
Yes.
Once a week for one hour you will need to be available for a Zoom session.
At the start of the course you will be surveyed to find out what times you are available during the week and we'll offer several slots during the week for you to choose from.
You need to complete all the units and contribute reasonably to the course forums.
At the end of the course there is a final individual assignment for you to complete.
If you do all these things, you will finish the course successfully and qualify for a certificate.
There is no assessment/pass mark as such as we view this as a formative and developmental course.
Yes, you will receive a certificate from The University of Sheffield English Language Teaching Centre.
There are however no credits attached to the course - it’s purely developmental.
Please note though that to receive the certificate, you need to complete all the final assignment and contribute regularly to the course forums.
In some form, yes.
You will be given permanent access to a self-study version of the course containing most of the content and you will be able to access the course forum via a special group set up.
Learning Technologies in EAP: A practical course for teachers

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/teacher-training/tefl-taster:
Our TEFL Taster is a chance to give 'Teaching English as a Foreign Language' a go.
You will look at teaching resources, planning a simple lesson, some basic language awareness tasks and try out some activities.
If your answer to any of these questions is YES then you may be interested in an upcoming TEFL Taster session.
Next TEFL Taster date:
Thursday 5 June 2025 - 5:30pm to 7:30pm (in-person)
This is a chance to find out more about Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL).
During a practical and informative workshop, you will look at teaching resources, learn more about basic language awareness, and try out some activities.
You'll also learn what to look for in a TEFL course and job, and what opportunities are available in English Language Teaching.
This is a useful introduction if you're thinking of travelling, teaching or doing a full TEFL course.
The TEFL Taster is a very popular event at the University of Sheffield, so it is advisable to get your ticket well in advance as there are limited spaces.
Location of events:
In-person TEFL Tasters take place in the main English Language Teaching Centre building at 78 Hoyle Street ( directions )
Online TEFL Tasters take place over the internet using using Zoom.
You will be sent the link before the session.
Tickets for University of Sheffield students and staff are £5.00, and tickets for external participants are £10.00.
They can be purchased through the university online store at the link below.
TEFL Taster - Tickets
If you have any questions about this event, please contact us at tefl@sheffield.ac.uk
Teacher Training Courses at the ELTC

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/teacher-training/being-teacher-trainer:
A practical course for new teacher trainers
Moving from teacher to trainer is not an easy step for even experienced teachers to make.
Our fully online programme covers many common aspects of a trainer’s role from planning and delivering workshops to observing lessons and giving feedback to mentoring less experienced colleagues.
The course has been designed to help new or inexperienced teacher trainers feel more confident as they make the transition from teacher to trainer.
Please Note: This course has been designed for TEFL/TESOL teachers.
If you are not involved in English language teaching, you may find that the course is not particularly relevant or useful in your context.
Please contact us if you have any questions about this - see contact details at the bottom of this page.
This course is aimed at new teacher trainers who have little experience and who see themselves as at the 'From Teacher to Trainer' stage on the Cambridge English Trainer Framework .
However, you don’t have to be working in a formal training context.
You may be a DoS or centre manager who is responsible for organising teacher development at your school.
You may be a line manager or senior teacher who has to carry out observations of experienced teachers in your centre.
You may be a conference presenter or someone who delivers in-house teacher development sessions to practising teachers.
You may be involved in mentoring or coaching.
Or you may be a newly qualified CELTA trainer embarking on your first courses.
This course is essentially for anyone who works with teachers and there really is something for everyone.
Likewise, the course is not restricted to any one training context and the content has been designed to be used in a variety of learning and teaching situations.
Each unit involves reflection tasks in which you are encouraged to consider how the input is applicable to you and the context you work in.
I found the multimedia and hybrid nature of the materials highly engaging!
Course participant
June 2022
Our course units cover the following topics:
The course is practical in nature and there will also be the opportunity to share ideas, resources and good practice.
By the end of the complete 10-week course, participants will be better able to:
The next course will take place between 27 January 2025 and 4th April 2025 .
Units will be released on a weekly basis according to the timetable below:
The course is designed to be deliberately flexible so you can work through it at your own pace and at times during the week when you are free.
We estimate that you will need to spend around 4-5 hours per unit engaging with the content and your fellow participants to get the most out of the course.
A certificate of completion will be awarded to all participants who successfully complete the course or individual units with it.
Sharing my ideas in the forums was helpful for me to grow in confidence and I found hearing other trainees' ideas really interesting and thought-provoking.
Receiving individual feedback from tutors was very welcome and motivating as a learner.
December 2021
The complete course costs £375 .
If you would like to get an idea of what the course is like, we have a sample unit for you to try for free.
To access it, follow the instructions below:
To apply for the course, please complete the application form:
Being a Teacher Trainer Application Form Any initial queries can be sent to our TEFL Admin Team at tefl@sheffield.ac.uk .
This course is essentially for anyone who works with teachers: this includes, but is not limited to, teacher trainers, educators, DoSs in language schools, mentors or conference speakers.
The course is also not restricted to one particular training context and the content of the course has been designed to be used in a variety of contexts and situations.
Each unit involves reflection tasks in which we ask you to consider how the input is applicable to you and the context you work in.
We have organised the course into distinct units with each one dealing with a different aspect of teacher training and released on a weekly basis.
Before you start Unit 1, we ask you to complete the Orientation Unit first as this will give you an overview of the course and how to use our platform, Training Foundry.
The complete course costs £375.
The full course lasts for 10 weeks.
Dates for each unit can be viewed in the 'Course dates and study hours' section above.
The course is delivered purely online and is made up of eight content units, which will be released on a week-by-week basis throughout the period of the course.
Each unit consists of a number of topics exploring aspects of working with teachers.
Each unit contains both asynchronous and peer work content.
The asynchronous tasks include guided self-study tasks, forum tasks, research, quizzes and reflection; while the peer tasks involve working with other participants to, for example, mark lesson plans, observe and offer feedback on lessons and plan input sessions.
Your tutors will offer feedback on your forum posts and group work tasks.
You may find that to complete some of the group tasks, that you will need to be online at the same time as other members of the group - this is optional though, as we provide ways of contacting and working with other participants which do not require you to be online at the same time.
The course units have been designed to make up approximately 4-5 hours worth of work, including working through the online content, completing the interactive tasks and contributing to the discussion forums.
You may find that some units may take slightly longer than this though.
Although all the units are standalone, and it is not necessary to complete one before moving on to the next one, we strongly recommend that you complete the units on the week they are set.
This is to ensure participants complete the group tasks at a similar pace and to ensure you receive timely feedback on your work.
Yes, we provide certificates for completing the whole course or per unit if you choose to take a select number of units.
Gaining a certificate is dependent on completing all the tasks in the course or unit.
Please note that this course does not provide any kind of credit.
The tutors really listened to my needs and knew exactly how to help...I feel really equipped to go back to my own setting and put all the ideas and information into practice.
Danyah Alroy
Centre Manager, Saudi Arabia
Other Teacher Training Courses

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/teacher-training/bespoke-courses:
In addition to the planned programmes, the ELTC is able to offer bespoke training and development courses.
These are tailored to the needs of an organisation or institution and can be delivered over different lengths and times.
Below are some of the areas of expertise our staff can currently offer:
Please contact Will Nash to discuss your specific requirements: Phone: +44 114 222 1784
Email: w.nash@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/courses/2025/tesol-ma:
School of English,

                  Faculty of Arts and Humanities
Apply now for 2025 entry or register your interest to find out about postgraduate study and events at the University of Sheffield.
Study theoretical approaches to TESOL in the research environment of an academic department and put these into practice in our English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC).
Through this unique combination of theory and practice, you'll develop awareness of the theoretical principles underpinning TESOL practice and be equipped with the practical skills to work in diverse international educational contexts.
This degree is ideal for:
You'll focus on key areas of learning and teaching second languages, including language teaching methodology, teaching skills (reading, writing, speaking and listening) and systems (grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation and discourse), materials selection and use, classroom pedagogy and reflective practice.
As part of the course you'll have the opportunity to complete a professional portfolio.
You can also do six hours of assessed teaching practice, leading to professional recognition in the field of English language teaching.
The MA TESOL is one of three linguistics MAs offered in the School of English.
If you're interested in learning more about the professional and research applications of linguistic theory and are seeking to build on your experience as a language professional then you may be interested in our MA Applied Linguistics course.
Share your love of language with some of the most enthusiastic experts in the world.
Whether your interest in language and language teaching is professional or academic, this MA provides you with advanced training in the theory and techniques of applied linguistics.
The English Language Teaching Centre is accredited by the British Council for the teaching of English in the UK.
The ELTC is also an accredited Cambridge English Language Assessment test centre providing students on this course with the option of taking the Teaching Knowledge Test qualification.
A selection of modules is available each year - some examples are below.
There may be changes before you start your course.
From May of the year of entry, formal programme regulations will be available in our Programme Regulations Finder .
Core modules: Teaching Practice 1 This module aims to provide you with an opportunity to develop practical TESOL skills and to demonstrate your theoretical knowledge of English Language Teaching applied in the classroom.
Over the course of the module, you will reflect on your current practices in TESOL, develop your range of classroom procedures and techniques, and apply existing knowledge of approaches and methods.
You will evidence your teaching skills via the delivery of online teaching in a one-to-one context.
In order to aid your teaching practice, you will receive support in both lesson planning and delivery.
You can also gain an optional Cambridge Assessment Teaching Knowledge Test (TKT) Modules 1, 2 and/or 3 qualification, provided its external criteria and entry costs are met.
This is likely to be towards the end of Semester 2 - information about when you can take this will be provided in due course.
15 credits Teaching Listening and Speaking This module will equip you with the theoretical knowledge and practical skills needed to support the development of second language learners' listening and speaking skills.
You will be introduced to different approaches to learning and teaching listening and speaking in a range of TESOL contexts and consider how to make principled pedagogical decisions, informed by underpinning theory and research.
In addition, you will develop your ability to select, adapt or create appropriate listening and speaking materials relevant to learner needs and evaluate procedures and techniques for assessing and developing second language listening and speaking skills.
15 credits Materials and Course Design This module will familiarise you with the theory and practice of TESOL course design and language teaching.
You will look at different scholarly approaches to the design of language teaching curricula, materials, and tests, evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of these approaches, and their usefulness in various TESOL situations in diverse secondary and tertiary education contexts.
The module will provide you with the opportunity to practise designing language courses and language teaching materials.
The module therefore will provide you with an essential theoretical and practical foundation to design TESOL language courses and teaching materials, and to critically assess existing examples of each and their appropriateness in various learning contexts.
15 credits Language Teaching Methodology This module is designed to provide you with a thorough grounding on the key theoretical and practical aspects of (second) language teaching methodology.
It reviews the historical developments, methodological approaches and principles underlying contemporary language teaching practices.
It also explores and assesses what we know about teaching vocabulary and grammar in a second or foreign language, the processes involved in language production and reception in a second language, and the implications for teaching and assessing the four language skills (i.e., reading, listening, writing and speaking).
Finally, it discusses the central aspects of designing an effective language course, as well as how to ensure valid and reliable language assessments.
The module aims to help you uncover your individual beliefs about language teaching and guide you to critically explore a variety of language teaching techniques.
It also encourages you to critically reflect on the complex and diverse nature of language teaching, in order to develop language teaching programmes that are research-informed and appropriate for the specific learning context.
Overall, this course has two main objectives: - Become familiar with the key theories, principles and methodologies underlying contemporary language teaching practices.
- Provide you with the essential foundation on how to apply this knowledge to develop effective language teaching courses in real learning situations.
On completion of this course, you should be able to understand, identify and evaluate the various teaching methodologies and techniques, and select and apply the most appropriate ones for different learning contexts, including the design of activities and tests to teach the various language features and skills.
15 credits Teaching Practice 2 This module aims to build on the contents of Teaching Practice 1 and further develop practical TESOL skills and consolidate theoretical knowledge of English Language Teaching as applied in the classroom.
This module will help you to reflect further on your current practice, further your understanding of practical classroom procedures and techniques and apply these with real learners and through micro- and peer-teaching.
The teaching practice focus of this module is teaching groups in in-person contexts.
As with Teaching Practice 1, you will have the opportunity to take the optional Cambridge Assessment Teaching Knowledge Test (TKT) Modules 1, 2 and/or 3 qualification, provided its external criteria and entry costs are met.
Information about when you can take this will be provided in due course.
15 credits Teaching Reading and Writing This module will familiarise you with the theory and practice of how to teach reading and writing in TESOL contexts.
For the Teaching Reading part of the module, you will study the main approaches to teaching second language reading in the English language classroom; how you can develop learners' intensive and extensive reading abilities; how reading can be assessed; and how popular TESOL textbooks teach reading.
For the Teaching Writing part of the module, you will study the main approaches to teaching second language writing; how writing can be corrected; whether correcting writing works; how writing can be assessed, and how popular TESOL textbooks teach writing.
You will practice designing and assessing reading activities; and practice correcting and assessing writing.
15 credits Teaching Vocabulary, Grammar, and Discourse This module is aimed at students who are interested in the acquisition, learning and teaching of vocabulary, grammar and discourse in second languages.
Throughout this module, students will be introduced to some of the principal theories, concepts, descriptive categories, and methodologies which are central to the teaching of English vocabulary, grammar, and discourse.
Taking a predominantly functional approach to language description, students will be familiarised with some of the key ways in which the lexico-grammar functions as a resource for creating meaning in use, and the implications for teaching the language systems with a functional and communicative purpose.
Working practically with authentic spoken and written language data and language teaching materials, the module will encourage students to critically reflect on their prior experiences as learners and, where appropriate, teachers of English.
Throughout the module, we will be drawing on the principles derived from second language acquisition research that inform effective teaching practice of vocabulary, grammar and discourse.
The module aims to help you uncover your individual beliefs about the learning and teaching of vocabulary, grammar and discourse, and guide you to critically explore a variety of teaching principles, methods and techniques.
Overall, this course has three main objectives: - Familiarise yourself with the current knowledge and developments on the learning and teaching of vocabulary, grammar and discourse (i.e.
language systems) in second languages - Help you develop the necessary background knowledge to understand and critically examine the ways in which the language systems function and are taught in second languages - Prepare you to be able to evaluate, select and apply the teaching principles, techniques and methods that are most appropriate for the instruction of language systems in different educational contexts.
15 credits Practitioner Research and Development This module aims to provide you with English language teacher skills and knowledge in the areas of practitioner research methods and techniques as well as theories and frameworks for teacher professional development.
Over the course of this module, you will engage in reflective practice on your own teaching and learning experiences through engagement with current practice and literature.
You will have to evidence your knowledge through critical analysis of a range of approaches to research and development skills that will aid your future teaching profession and help you plan for your educational career.
15 credits Final Project The aim of EGH413 is to consolidate and deepen the work carried out in both EGH409 and  other core modules and to provide opportunities for research and practice into agreed specialist areas of TESOL.
Over this module, you will create and deliver two in-person 90-minute lessons to groups of English language learners.
Each lesson will be complemented by a lesson plan and materials.
You will also write a 3,000-word reflection evaluating your learning and development and suggesting further improvements.
Following teaching practice, you will also complete a comprehensive literature review in an area of TESOL linking this to your teaching practice.
Successful completion of this module (along with EGH404 and EGH405) will allow for professional recognition as TEFLi qualified (Certificate-level ELT qualification equivalent) based on criteria from the British Council and Accreditation UK.
60 credits
Core modules:
This module aims to provide you with an opportunity to develop practical TESOL skills and to demonstrate your theoretical knowledge of English Language Teaching applied in the classroom.
This module will equip you with the theoretical knowledge and practical skills needed to support the development of second language learners' listening and speaking skills.
This module will familiarise you with the theory and practice of TESOL course design and language teaching.
This module is designed to provide you with a thorough grounding on the key theoretical and practical aspects of (second) language teaching methodology.
This module aims to build on the contents of Teaching Practice 1 and further develop practical TESOL skills and consolidate theoretical knowledge of English Language Teaching as applied in the classroom.
This module will familiarise you with the theory and practice of how to teach reading and writing in TESOL contexts.
This module is aimed at students who are interested in the acquisition, learning and teaching of vocabulary, grammar and discourse in second languages.
This module aims to provide you with English language teacher skills and knowledge in the areas of practitioner research methods and techniques as well as theories and frameworks for teacher professional development.
The aim of EGH413 is to consolidate and deepen the work carried out in both EGH409 and  other core modules and to provide opportunities for research and practice into agreed specialist areas of TESOL.
The content of our courses is reviewed annually to make sure it's up-to-date and relevant.
This is in response to discoveries through our world-leading research; funding changes; professional accreditation requirements; student or employer feedback; outcomes of reviews; and variations in staff or student numbers.
In the event of any change we will inform students and take reasonable steps to minimise disruption.
Register your interest in studying at Sheffield or attend an event throughout the year to find out what makes studying at here special.
You’ll be taught by a dedicated and enthusiastic team of teachers.
Our internationally recognised research feeds straight into our teaching, with students sometimes taking a hands-on role in our research activities.
The staff are leading figures in their fields, in many cases having written the books and papers you will be studying: Kook-Hee Gil (Second Language Acquisition), Nigel Harwood (TESOL Materials), Jane Mulderrig (Critical Discourse Analysis), Valerie Hobbs (English for Specific Purposes), Beth Melia-Leigh (Teacher Education) and Beatriz González Fernández (Vocabulary).
You’ll spend about eight hours a week in lectures, seminars and workshops, and there are chances to take part in classroom-based research projects.
Assessment depends on the module, but includes essay assignments and classroom coursework tasks.
Our graduates develop TESOL practitioner professional skills and valuable teaching experience and go on to advanced careers in TESOL all over the world.
They also work in business, publishing, translation and interpreting.
Your career - the School of English
Minimum 2:1 undergraduate honours degree in a relevant subject.
We accept degrees in the following subject areas:
We also consider a wide range of international qualifications:
Entry requirements for international students
We assess each application on the basis of the applicant’s preparation and achievement as a whole.
We may accept applicants whose qualifications don’t meet the published entry criteria but have other experience relevant to the course.
The lists of required degree subjects and modules are indicative only.
Sometimes we may accept subjects or modules that aren’t listed, and sometimes we may not accept subjects or modules that are listed, depending on the content studied.
IELTS 7 (with 6.5 in each component) or University equivalent
Other English language qualifications we accept
If you're an international student who does not meet the entry requirements for this course, you have the opportunity to apply for a pre-masters programme in Business, Social Sciences and Humanities at the University of Sheffield International College .
This course is designed to develop your English language and academic skills.
Upon successful completion, you can progress to degree level study at the University of Sheffield.
If you have any questions about entry requirements, please contact the school/department .
We're offering two scholarships worth £10,000 each for home fee-paying students starting a taught postgraduate course in the School of English in 2025.
Eligibility criteria and information on how to apply for a Ragdoll - School of English scholarship
There are a number of studentships and fee bursaries available, funded by either the University or the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
Deadlines for funding applications are usually in winter/early spring.
You can apply now using our Postgraduate Online Application Form.
It's a quick and easy process.
School of English
Start a conversation with us – you can get in touch by email, telephone or online chat.
Any supervisors and research areas listed are indicative and may change before the start of the course.
Our student protection plan
Recognition of professional qualifications: from 1 January 2021, in order to have any UK professional qualifications recognised for work in an EU country across a number of regulated and other professions you need to apply to the host country for recognition.
Read information from the UK government and the EU Regulated Professions Database .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/english-testing:
The English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC) offers a range of English language tests, including International English Language Testing System (IELTS) and Cambridge Assessment English.
OET is the only English language test specifically for healthcare professionals.
OET at the ELTC

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/english-testing/ielts:
The International language Testing System (IELTS) assesses all of your English skills — reading, writing, listening and speaking, and is designed to reflect how you will use English at study, at work, and at play, in your new life abroad.
The listening and speaking sections of IELTS are the same for all test takers.
The reading and writing sections are different depending on whether you choose the academic or general training modules.
The Academic module is suitable for university entrance at undergraduate and postgraduate level and for professional registration.
The General Training module is suitable for the purposes of immigration to an English-speaking country and for people wishing to train or study below degree level.
Before registering for a test, you should find out which version you need to take.
To do this we recommend you contact the recognising organisation (border agency, university, company etc.) that you are applying to.
They will also inform you what test score you require.
IELTS is available in 140 countries, and last year over 2.9 million tests were taken.
It is recognised by over 10,000 organisations worldwide, including employers, universities, professional bodies and immigration authorities.
IELTS is jointly owned by the British Council, IDP: IELTS Australia and Cambridge English Language Assessment.
For further information on the IELTS exam, please follow the links below:
There are some very useful online materials provided by the British Council to help you find out more about the IELTS test and practice before you take your exam:
Saturday 21 June 2025 - Academic and General Training modules - Book Now
Saturday 26 July 2025 - Academic and General Training modules - Book Now
Saturday 13 September 2025 - Academic and General Training modules - Book Now
Saturday 21 June 2025 (IELTS on Computer) - Book Now
Wednesday 2 July 2025 (IELTS on Computer) - Book Now
Wednesday 16 July 2025 (IELTS on Computer) - Book Now
Wednesday 30 July 2025 (IELTS on Computer) - Book Now
Saturday 9 August 2025 (IELTS on Computer) - Book Now
Wednesday 10 September 2025 (IELTS on Computer) - Book Now
Wednesday 24 September 2025 (IELTS on Computer) - Book Now
Please note that the Speaking section will take place on the same date as the other three sections unless otherwise stated.
The ELTC only accepts online registration for our IELTS exams.
Register for IELTS online
Please note:
When completing your online registration you must enter your name exactly as it appears on your ID.
The ELTC IELTS team will contact you before your test to confirm your details.
If there are any changes you must send a copy of your ID before your test.
This can be done via email as a picture or scan.
You will need to bring the same ID to all your IELTS exams.
It must be a valid passport, biometric residence permit (BRP) or European ID card.
Test fees for IELTS sittings at the ELTC are £215 for tests in 2025.
The ELTC requires all IELTS test-takers to pay their fees by credit or debit card through our secure online payment system.
We aren't able to accept any other payment methods for IELTS bookings at our centre.
At the end of your online registration (see Step one above) you will see a link to our online payment site .
All fees should be paid no later than five days after you register and no later than 5 days before your IELTS test.
If you have any problems with payment of fees, please contact us at eltc.IELTS@sheffield.ac.uk .
If you would like to cancel your IELTS test, you should inform us by email at eltc.IELTS@sheffield.ac.uk at least 35 days before your test.
We will then refund your test fee minus £25 for admin charges.
If you cancel less than 35 days before your test, your fee will not be refunded.
To transfer to a different IELTS test date contact eltc.IELTS@sheffield.ac.uk at least 35 days before your test.
We will then send you a transfer request form to complete and charge a £25 fee for admin.
You cannot register or take the test without a valid ID (passport, UK residence permit or EU Identity card) and you must bring the same original ID with you on test day.
You will not be allowed to take the test without an original ID, and will not receive a refund.
If you have any questions, please contact eltc.IELTS@sheffield.ac.uk
Your test report form (TRF) for IELTS on Paper will usually be available 13 days after the test and will be posted to you on that day.
It is not currently possible to collect any IELTS test results in person.
IELTS test results for the IELTS on Computer version of the exam will usually be available on the IELTS test taker portal from between 1 to 5 days after the exam date.
The TRF for IELTS on Computer exams is only provided in pdf format.
You can request for additional copies of your TRF to be sent to up to 5 institutions.
If you require additional copies of your TRF to be sent to another institution, or if your TRF is lost or damaged please contact eltc.ielts@sheffield.ac.uk
Test-takers can have one or all of their IELTS papers re-marked if they are not happy with the results they received.
The process is called an Enquiry on Results (EOR) and costs and costs £90 for tests taken in 2024 and £92 for tests taken in 2025.
If you have taken an IELTS test at the ELTC and you would like an Enquiry on Results, you should submit your request through the IELTS test taker portal no later than 6 weeks from the date of your test.
With IELTS One Skill Retake, you have the option to retake any one section of the test (Listening, Reading, Writing, or Speaking) if you need to improve on one area (instead of retaking all four sections).
We offer IELTS One Skill Retake (OSR) for candidates who took an IELTS on computer test at the University of Sheffield ELTC test centre.
Please read the following important information before deciding to book an OSR:
You can find further information about One Skill Retake on this section of the IELTS official website https://takeielts.britishcouncil.org/take-ielts/one-skill-retake .
To apply for One Skill Retake (OSR) you must choose an available test sitting within 60 days of your original test date.
Remember, you must be fully registered, including payment 3 days before the OSR test date.
To register for OSR please email: eltc.ielts@sheffield.ac.uk
IELTS tests at the University of Sheffield ELTC take place in the English Language Teaching Centre building at 78 Hoyle Street, Sheffield, S3 7LG.
Further information on how to find the test centre, including a map and public transport information is available on our 'How to find us' webpage .
If you have a complaint about the way the test is run on test day, you should ask a member of staff for a complaints form.
You cannot make a complaint about the test day after results have been released.
For any other complaints or comments, please email eltc.ielts@sheffield.ac.uk
Following the test you will also be contacted to give feedback about your experience of taking IELTS.
If you would like to ask us a question about our IELTS tests here at the ELTC, please email eltc.IELTS@sheffield.ac.uk or phone at +44 114 222 4931.
Our office hours are Monday to Friday 9am-4pm.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/english-testing/cambridge-assessment:
The University of Sheffield English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC) is an authorised exam centre for Cambridge English Qualifications.
Cambridge Assessment English is a department of the University of Cambridge and part of the Cambridge Assessment group set up in 1858.
According to their website, 'Cambridge Assessment English offers the world's leading range of certificates for learners and teachers of English - taken by over three million people in 130 countries.'
These qualifications are recognised by a huge variety of professional, educational and governmental organisations, including the University of Sheffield.
Currently we can offer the following Cambridge English Qualifications below.
To find out more about each exam, please click on the link to be taken the Cambridge Assessment English website.
The ELTC also offers teacher training courses leading to TKT, CELTA and Delta certification.
Please look at our teacher training webpages or contact us for more details
Next Exam Date: Available on request - See application form for further information
Please note: All four papers, 'Reading and Use of English', 'Writing', 'Listening' and 'Speaking', will take place on the Exam Date for each qualification listed above unless otherwise stated.
Exam Date: Wednesday 3 December 2025
Application deadline: Wednesday 5 November 2025
The fees for each exam are listed on the application form .
All exam fees must be paid before you are officially entered with Cambridge Assessment English.
Applications made after the entries deadline will be charged an additional late entry fee of £25.
Applications can be made online.
Application form
You will be contacted soon after with further information about paying for the exam and confirming your identity.
To secure your place you must complete all stages of registration by the deadline above.
Cambridge English Exam application form (Google form)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/english-testing/oet:
Prove you have the right level of English to study and work in the healthcare sector.
OET is the world’s only international English language test specifically for healthcare professionals and can be taken at our centre.
The test provides a valid and reliable assessment of all four language skills – listening, reading, writing and speaking – with an emphasis on communication in healthcare professional settings.
OET is used as proof of English proficiency by: • Healthcare regulators in the UK, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, Namibia, Dubai, Malta, Singapore and Ukraine • The Australian Department of Home Affairs and Immigration New Zealand • Leading health educators • Royal colleges in the UK
In the UK, doctors, nurses and dentists who have sat OET to meet the English language requirement of their healthcare regulator do not need to take any other English test when applying for Tier 2 (General) visas.
For an up to date list of organisations that accept OET, please visit the OET website .
OET’s Preparation Information webpage contains a wide range of preparation materials to help you study for the test, including many hours’ worth of free practice resources.
OET also provide preparation tips, guides and inspiration on their social media channels:
Youtube
We offer regular OET test dates at our centre.
You can take OET at the ELTC on the following dates:
To book your test, please visit our booking webpage:
Sheffield ELTC OET Booking
OET at the English Language Teaching Centre is held in our main building at 78 Hoyle Street.
Directions and public transport information can be found below:
How to Find Us
The three written tests will take approximately 3 hours.
In addition, a speaking test is also scheduled on the same day.
For more detail on the test day format, go to: https://oet.com/test/test-overview
You need to arrive between 7:30am and 8:30am on the test day.
When you arrive, you will need to:
For test rules and regulations, including information about what you need to bring with you, what you can, and cannot, bring into the test room, download OET Test Regulations, including the withdrawal and deferral policy at: https://oet.com/test-regulations
If you have any further questions which aren't answered by this webpage, you can contact our Exams Team through the following methods:
Email - eltc.oet@sheffield.ac.uk
Phone - 0114 215 7473
OET Official Website

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/english-testing/test-comparisons:
This table compares the total and component scores required from English language qualifications for which entry requirements vary between courses.
The University of Sheffield will use these comparisons to ascertain whether candidates have met the level required in their conditional offer.
IELTS tests taken at UK government-approved test centres (known as "IELTS for UKVI"), Trinity Integrated Skills in English (ISE) taken in the UK, Pearson Test of English Academic UKVI (PTE Academic) and LanguageCert Academic - SELT are considered as Secure English Language Tests (SELTs) for visa purposes.
These are the only qualifications that can be used in applications for a Student Visa to study a pre-sessional course at the English Language Teaching Centre.
The qualifications listed in the table below are not SELTs.
They cannot be used in applications for a Student Visa to study at the ELTC, but can be used in visa applications to study a degree course at the University.
Please be aware that Academic IELTS and Pearson PTE exams are different to IELTS for UKVI and PTE Academic UKVI exams respectively.
However, the Academic IELTS follows the same grading scale as the IELTS for UKVI and the Pearson PTE follows the same grading scale as the PTE Academic UKVI.
Please note the Academic IELTS and Pearson PTE are not SELTs, while the IELTS for UKVI and PTE Academic UKVI are.
This means that Academic IELTS and Pearson PTE (in-person only) cannot be used to obtain a Student Visa to attend a full-time English course, however they can still be used to obtain a Student Visa for degree courses at the University.
For more information, please see our guidance on the UK government’s English language requirements and the University’s application of this policy:
Secure English Language Tests
* The Common European Framework of Reference for Languages ** The Cambridge English Scale applies to the Cambridge Assessment English C1 Advanced and C2 Proficiency qualifications
IELTS at the English Language Teaching Centre
English language requirements for postgraduate taught degrees
English language requirements for research degrees
gov.uk - Secure English Language Test (SELT) information

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/about:
The English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC) is part of The University of Sheffield and one of the largest university English language centres in the UK.
Much of the centre and many of our courses are accredited by external bodies such as the British Council and BALEAP.
The centre is authorised by Cambridge Assessment English as an exam centre and for teaching awards.
With around 90 academic and professional services staff, the ELTC teaches and supports thousands of learners a year on a range of specialised, pre-sessional and in-sessional English language and skills programmes.
Our staff have experience of teaching international students in a wide range of locations and situations, both in the UK and overseas.
The ELTC is housed in a purpose-built facility which includes modern classrooms, well-equipped computer suites and social spaces, as well as advanced audio-visual and learning resources.
Our courses also take advantage of classrooms and facilities across the University of Sheffield campus.
Many courses at the ELTC, the University of Sheffield are accredited through Accreditation UK.
This means that we meet agreed quality standards guaranteed by the British Council.
Courses not accredited include Teacher Training (Cambridge accredited) and our work on the Academic Skills Modules at USIC (ISI quality assured).
The British Council have assessed the standards of management, resources and premises, teaching and welfare, and have accredited the ELTC with meeting the overall standard in each area inspected.
The British Council inspected and accredited the University of Sheffield English Language Teaching Centre in November 2024.
Sheffield ELTC British Council Accreditation Report - November 2024 (.pdf, 243kb)
The large English language teaching department of this university offers courses in general, academic and professional English for adults (18+) and young people (16+) and for closed groups of adults (18+) and young people (16+) on campus and online.
Strengths were noted in the areas of strategic and quality management, staff management, student administration, publicity, premises and facilities, learning resources, academic staff profile, academic management, course design, learner management, teaching, care of students and leisure opportunities.
The British Council
November 2024 University of Sheffield ELTC inspection report
The ELTC is a University of Cambridge Assessment English authorised centre for both teaching awards and exams.
Teaching Qualifications:
Cambridge Exams:
Cambridge Assessment English is a not-for-profit department of the University of Cambridge and Europe's largest educational assessment organisation.
English UK is the national association of accredited English language centres.
Formed in 2004 from two previous associations (the Association of Recognised English Language Services and the British Association of State English Language Teaching), there are around 450 member centres in private schools, educational trusts and charities, further education colleges and universities.
All the members are accredited under the Accreditation UK scheme, which are managed in partnership with the British Council.
Professional memberships include:
IATEFL 'Special Interest Group' membership includes:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/about/dates-and-fees:
On this page find the dates and standard fees for our full time courses.
The standard fee for full-time pre-sessional courses commencing before the end of April 2025 in the 2024-25 academic year is £459 per week.
The fee for full-time pre-sessional courses commencing after April 2025 is £525 per week.
Start Date: Monday 30 September 2024
End Date: Friday 13 December 2024
Length: 11 weeks
Christmas Holiday (non-teaching dates): 14 December 2024 - 13 January 2025 (4 weeks)
Start Date: Monday 13 January 2025
End Date: Friday 28 March 2025
Easter Holiday (non-teaching dates): 29 March 2025 - 13 April 2025 (2 weeks)
Start Date: Monday 14 April 2025
End Date: Friday 6 June 2025
Length: 8 weeks
Summer Holiday (non-teaching dates): 7 June 2025 - 29 June 2025 (3 weeks)
Start Date: Monday 30 June 2025
End Date: Friday 5 September 2025
Length: 10 weeks
End of academic year Holiday (non-teaching dates): 6 September 2025 - 5 October 2025 (4 weeks)
The standard fee for full-time pre-sessional courses commencing before the end of April 2026 in the 2025-26 academic year is £525 per week.
Start Date: Monday 6 October 2025
End Date: Friday 19 December 2025
Christmas Holiday (non-teaching dates): 20 December 2025 - 11 January 2026 (3 weeks)
Start Date: Monday 12 January 2026
End Date: Friday 27 March 2026
Easter Holiday (non-teaching dates): 28 March 2026 - 12 April 2026 (2 weeks)
Start Date: Monday 13 April 2026
End Date: Friday 5 June 2026
Summer Holiday (non-teaching dates): 6 June 2026 - 28 June 2026 (3 weeks)
Start Date: Monday 29 June 2026
End Date: Friday 4 September 2026
End of academic year Holiday (non-teaching dates): 5 September 2026 - 30 September 2026 (3 weeks)
Please be aware that in addition to the holidays shown, no teaching takes place on UK bank holidays in England and Wales.
UK bank holidays in England and Wales
Please check our entry levels webpages for further information about the entry requirements and dates for specific courses:
Term 4 (Summer 2025) Entry Requirements
Term 1 (October 2025) Entry Requirements
Pre-sessional English courses
University English courses
UK bank holidays

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/about/policies:
You can view policies and documents applying to our courses and services by clicking the links below.
Student Code of Conduct
Complaints and appeals procedure (Applicants)
Complaints and appeals procedure (Current Students)
Terms and Conditions for full-time ELTC courses
Terms and Conditions upon Acceptance of an Offer
Tuition fee refund policy
Data protection for applicants, current students and former students
Data protection for staff
Privacy Notice for Free English Class volunteers
Health and safety policy (University of Sheffield login required)
Incident management
Equality, diversity and inclusion policy for students
Equality, diversity and inclusion policy for staff (University of Sheffield staff login required)
Under 18s policies
University safeguarding policy
Prevent policy

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/about/research:
ELTC is happy to help potential researchers with their research, for example, by recruiting participants.
To obtain permission to undertake research at ELTC, you should complete the research request form .
Incomplete forms, or forms with insufficient information, will not be considered.
You can expect to hear from us within 7 days.
You should consider the timing of your request and data collection carefully, bearing in mind that ELTC full-time, pre-sessional courses run on a termly basis:
At the start of each term ELTC students may have just arrived in Britain and have a lot to get used to.
ELTC staff are also very busy at the beginning of terms.
Towards the end of each term, students usually have coursework deadlines and/or exams and teachers are busy marking and writing reports.
For these reasons, ELTC students and staff may be unwilling to volunteer as participants at these times.
Please note that research during our busy International Summer School (Term 4) is restricted to University of Sheffield staff and students only.
TUOS has a list of partner institutions which are considered to have sufficiently robust ethical review procedures.
If your institution is on our list of recognised institutions your ethical approval documentation should be sufficient.
Organisations recognised by Sheffield’s Research Ethics Committee (PDF, 53KB)
To facilitate a successful application, please note the following:
You must comply with the 2018 General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
Guidance and useful templates for researchers
For further information about Research and ethics at the ELTC, please click on the appropriate heading below:
ELTC is part of Professional Services.
All research undertaken within Professional Services (and therefore ELTC) which involves human participants and/or personal data (or human tissue - but that's unlikely at ELTC!) must undergo an ethical review.
University of Sheffield applications for ethical approval are now online:
Applying for ethics approval
If you are undertaking research as part of a CPD activity (E.g.
MA, PhD) in another institution, you may need to seek ethical approval from the University of Sheffield, even if you have already received it from the institution in which you are studying.
If you have any questions relating to undertaking research at ELTC, please contact Dr Lynne Newcombe: l.newcombe@sheffield.ac.uk
Please contact Joanna Coley j.coley@sheffield.ac.uk
In addition to completing the ELTC Research Request Form , please could you provide copies of the following documents:
We will email you to tell you whether or not your request has been successful.
At certain times of the year, we receive a large number of requests to recruit participants at ELTC.
Our students and staff have sometimes commented that they feel 'volunteer fatigue'.
While your request will always be considered, University of Sheffield student researchers will be given priority at times of high request.
If your request is successful, we will ask you to provide further documents (e.g.
copy of participant consent form, etc).
We would also like you to share your findings and recommendations with us.
Unless your institution is on the University of Sheffield’s recognised partner list for ethical approval, you will be obliged to seek ethical approval from the University of Sheffield.
In the interests of collegiality and furthering research, we will endeavour to help you.
However, please bear in mind that we sometimes receive a large number of requests to recruit participants at ELTC.
ELTC students and staff have sometimes commented that they feel ‘volunteer fatigue’.
It may also be difficult to recruit participants for longitudinal research as our students may have left the ELTC, and staff may not feel able to commit themselves to this type of activity.
While all requests are carefully considered, University of Sheffield student researchers will be given priority at times of high request.
If your request is successful, we will ask you to provide further documents.
While all requests are carefully considered, at times of high request the following order of priority will be given:
It is likely that you will be obliged to seek ethical approval from the University of Sheffield.
Please note that research during our busy International Summer School (Term 4) is restricted to University of Sheffield staff and students only .
Research request form (Google form)
Policies and documents

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/about/work:
We're one of the largest University-based English language centres in the UK, supporting thousands of students a year on a range of programmes.
Find out more about working at the ELTC, details of any current job vacancies, and information about our work experience programme.
We do not currently have any vacancies.
Please check back at a later date for information about future job opportunities at the English Language Teaching Centre.
To apply for any vacancies please click the link below and search for the appropriate reference number.
Work experience placements are not currently available at our centre.
We will update this webpage with further details once we're able to begin offering work experience again.
The University of Sheffield takes its public and social responsibility seriously.
We are committed to making the world a better place.
This approach is embedded in everything we do, from partnerships with local and global organisations to our research and teaching.
As a University department, the ELTC shares this commitment.
One way it does so is by providing young people in the Sheffield region with learning opportunities, and practical experience, which aim to equip them for their future working life.
Staff at the ELTC undertake a range of roles which are reflected in the work experience placements we offer.
Our placements are designed to be informative and motivating, providing hands-on experience and active engagement.
We can only arrange internships to current students and recent graduates of The University of Sheffield through the University's internship programme.
We are unable to accommodate any internship requests from external organisations or individuals not currently studying at The University of Sheffield.
For more information please visit Career Connect .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/about/contact:
You can contact the centre in any of the following ways.
Pre-sessional English course and admissions enquiries: eltc-admissions@sheffield.ac.uk
All other enquiries: eltc@sheffield.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 114 222 1780
In Person: Visit our reception desk - open between 8:45am and 4:45pm Monday to Friday
See below for information on getting to the ELTC and public transport links.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/about/find-us:
The ELTC is part of the Sheffield 3 Student Roost accommodation complex and is located opposite the Shell petrol station on the junction of Hoyle Street and Meadow Street.
It is also near to the Kelham Island industrial heritage area.
The ELTC is number 150 on the University's Central Sheffield map: University Central Sheffield Map
Train and tram
The easiest way to reach us from the city centre is by tram.
We are located 2 minutes walk away from the 'Shalesmoor' tram stop.
The ELTC is on the blue and yellow tram routes and is 2 stops from 'The University of Sheffield' tram stop.
Trams go directly to:
Please see the links below for more information about the Supertram network.
Walking
The ELTC is 10 minutes walk from the University of Sheffield (near tram stop or Information Commons).
Cycling
Cycle racks are available outside our main entrance and we have shower facilities for cyclists on the ground floor.
Bus
Several bus services stop near the ELTC.
You can use the Travel South Yorkshire website to plan your journey by bus or to search for a timetable.
Car
The ELTC is near the Shalesmoor roundabout on the A61 and part of the Sheffield inner ring road.
Limited street parking is available on Watery Street and Henry Street nearby.
Sheffield also has a Park and Ride scheme .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/eltc/about/people:
If you aren’t sure who to contact then get in touch using our general contact details.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/hr/sheffieldacademic/statement:
When you are finished accessing University services, log out and exit your browser to protect your account.
If you are an applicant with an account created before 18th December 2023, you must reset your password via the applicant registration system due to an authentication system update.
Use the applicants Account Assistance link to reset your password.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/diamond-engineering:
This striking structure is home to over 6,000 students from the Faculty of Engineering.
The Diamond has the capacity to educate top quality engineers that the UK needs to address the skills shortage in the sector, those that will go on to tackle the biggest challenges facing the modern world.
We are a cross-faculty department responsible for delivering practical teaching for the Faculty of Engineering within extensive laboratory and workshop facilities.
The University of Sheffield
Faculty of Engineering
Multidisciplinary Engineering Education
The Diamond
32 Leavygreave Road
Sheffield S3 7RD
Contact Us
AskUS: Get answers to your questions
Browse our frequently asked questions to get the answers you need.
Questions and answers for students
Follow Engineering at Sheffield on:
X (formerly Twitter)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/diamond-engineering/diamond-360-tour:
Our students use the Diamond to get hands-on learning in our state-of-the-art labs, develop skills on industrial-scale equipment and study in over 1000 study spaces.
See how in our 360 video tour:
Take a whistle stop tour of our engineering buildings and what to expect when you study in Sheffield.
Since filming the open times of The Diamond have changed:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/library/buildings/information-commons:
Find site-specific resources and information to help you plan your visit to the Information Commons (IC).
Open 24/7 - Library Staffed hours, Monday - Friday 9am to 5pm (self-service Monday - Friday, 5pm - 9am)
Self-service only on weekends.
Please note that library staff are available at Western Bank Library on Saturday & Sunday, between 12pm - 6pm.
University of Sheffield 44 Leavygreave Rd S3 7RD Enquiries: +44 114 2227200 Email: library@sheffield.ac.uk Directions: via Google maps
To discover more about our library spaces and services you can view our interactive maps.
View interactive maps here
Book a study space
Access and evacuation
Find a PC
Research skills and critical thinking workshops
Get IT help (Student / staff login required)
Find information on the IC Café
The Digital Commons creative makerspace
Your place of relaxation and calm.
The Garden Room is a space for student wellbeing and relaxation; it is situated on the Ground floor of the Information Commons.
The Garden Room offers students a comfortable, relaxing break from their studies and also serves to encourage students to take regular study breaks.
We have worked closely with students and taken their suggestions and feedback to inform the furniture choices, resources and layout of the room.
It is hoped that providing a calming environment will contribute towards greater student wellbeing and lower levels of stress and anxiety amongst those who use it, especially during assessment periods.
The space holds a number of books for recreational usage, to encourage students to read for pleasure, rather than just for study purposes and we are hoping that students will relax and take some time out from using their electronic devices.
We are a student group that wanted to and felt the need for a wellbeing focused area where students could really relax in our University.
After a fair bit of research we worked with the library to help create this space through planning and purchasing some of the resources - such as the chairs, books, zines, pictures and plants.
We hope The Garden Room will be the perfect spot for you to relax, be positive, improve your mood and dream big!
The sensory study room was created through collaboration with SUSU Liberation Officer, SUSU Disability Officer and colleagues in DDSS.
The room is a space in the Library that will allow you to moderate your sensory experience and continue to study.
The room benefits from many features, including controllable lights with different settings, soft seating with fixed and adjustable tables, weighted blankets and reduced natural light.
Customers with additional support requirements (inclusive learning)
Read about the history of the IC
Library help
Library buildings

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/library/buildings/western-bank-library:
Find site-specific resources and information to help you plan your visit to Western Bank Library.
From Monday 16 June - Friday 19 September:
Monday - Friday: 9am - 5pm
Saturday - Sunday: 10am - 6pm
Library closing arrangements:
Levels 2 and 3 will close 30 minutes before the building closes.
Between 17 June - 17 October 2025 , we will be undertaking essential work on the lift at Western Bank Library.
As a result, Western Bank Library will have limited access for users with additional access needs and there may be some noise disruption on site as this work is completed.
We accept that the situation is not ideal, but the lift is nearing the end of its service life and replacing it has become a priority.
Level 4, including the bookable assistive spaces and group rooms will all be accessible via the Mezzanine Entrance and Wheelchair Lift.
Levels 2, 3, 5 and 6 will not be accessible without using the stairs.
During this time, we are committed to ensuring library users can still access all our services - therefore if you need further assistance or would like any further information on access, then please email us on library@sheffield.ac.uk and we will do all we can to help.
You can find out more information about the project on the Estates and Facilities Management project webpage.
University of Sheffield Western Bank Sheffield S10 2TN
Enquiries +44 114 222 7200 Email: library@sheffield.ac.uk
Directions: via Google maps
Learn about access and evacuation
Map collections (University login required)
Special Collections
National Fairground and Circus Archive
Sheffield Authors Showcase
Newspapers on microfilm
The Research Commons (on Level 5 of Western Bank Library) is an interdisciplinary, open space designed for collaborative discussion and research.
The Research Commons is designed to facilitate creative working in a neutral space, and can be used for general study or hosting research events.
Between 17 June - 17 October 2025, we will be undertaking essential work on the lift at Western Bank Library.
As a result, Level 5 and the Research Commons will not be accessible without using the stairs, and there may be some noise disruption on site as this work is completed.
Find out more about the Research Commons
Study spaces
Library services for visitors

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/library/buildings/health-sciences:
The Health Sciences Library serves the staff and students of the Faculty of Health.
Collections cover medicine, dentistry, nursing and midwifery.
Monday to Thursday: 9am to 5pm
Friday: 9am to 5pm
Saturday and Sunday: Closed
University of Sheffield Beech Hill Road Sheffield S10 2RX Sheffield Teaching Hospitals internal telephone: 827335
Enquiries: +44 114 222 7200 Email: library@sheffield.ac.uk
Site Occupancy
Faculty of Health Liaison
Customers with additional support requirements (Inclusive Learning)
Information for Sheffield Teaching Hospitals (STH) staff

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/it-services/prospective-students:
IT and computer services are essential to studying at university, but we’ve got it covered so you don’t need to worry about it.
And if you ever have problems, we can help with those too.
Many students choose to bring a laptop, as it gives them more flexibility about where and when they study.
However, this isn’t essential as all the University libraries and most departments have computers you can use for your work.
You can use our FindAPC service to locate an available computer.
Across campus and our halls of residence we provide fast, free, secure WiFi for all your devices.
We can even help you get connected and set up if you need some help.
The University provides free access to a huge range of professional and academic software.
These will help with your studies and give you practical experience with tools you’ll use in your career.
Many of these software can be installed on your personal computer as well.
We provide a range of software and other support solutions to adapt your studies to your needs.
From software that will convert text and documents to a format that suits you, to equipment to make your studies and research easier.
We want to make sure technology doesn’t get in the way of you reaching your potential.
Our IT Service Desk can support you with any IT problems you might have.
From online articles so you can help yourself, to online chat or in-person drop-ins, they draw on a wealth of experience and expertise to help address any issues you might have.
We have a campus-wide network of printers which you can use to scan, copy and print - meaning you don’t need to bring your own.
All University computers are directly connected, and there is also a web app so you can print straight from your personal device.
Then you can collect it from any printer on campus with a swipe of your student card.
Sometimes you want to study in the library - sometimes you want to finish and submit an essay from the comfort of your favourite coffee shop.
Wherever you want to work, you’ll be able to login and connect to all your University resources.
We’ve also got guides to help you get connected to whatever you need, wherever you are.
Creating videos and imagery is an increasingly essential ability - for your studies and your career.
Our Creative Media Service can help you learn the skills to do just that.
They also offer a range of professional camera, audio and video equipment to hire, for free, for your studies and creative projects.
All of your studies are underpinned by an extensive collection of online learning resources provided through the University’s online learning environment - MUSE.
You’ll get access to this through your student account as you go through induction when you join the University.
We have a team who provide education, mentorship and support for programming and software development, as well as for complex data collection, management and analysis.
The Research IT team can also give access to specialist software and high-performance computing facilities for computationally intensive research.
All University of Sheffield IT accounts are protected by multi-factor authentication (MFA), which provides an extra layer of security.
When you first log in to your University account you will be asked to set up MFA so you can access University online services and course materials.
Find out more about MFA
IT Services
Study facilities
Guest WiFi

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/about/history:
Explore the history of the University and our role as a civic university.
The University of Sheffield developed from three local institutions: the Sheffield School of Medicine, Firth College and the Sheffield Technical School.
The School of Medicine, founded 1828, was by far the oldest.
Its early history was very insecure and it was saved from collapse by the opening of Firth College, which took over the teaching of all basic science subjects to medical students.
Firth College was one of a group of university colleges founded in the later 19th century.
It developed out of the Cambridge University Extension Movement, a scheme designed to bring university teaching to the large towns and cities of England, most of which lacked any university provision.
The success of these courses in Sheffield led Mark Firth, a local steel manufacturer, to establish the College in 1879 as a centre for teaching Arts and Science subjects.
When the University asked the people of Sheffield for donations in 1904, Sheffield responded, and over £50,000 was raised by penny donations from local steel and factory workers and residents.
Thanks to Sheffielders' generosity, the University was able to establish a world-class institution.
In turn, we pledged to help the local economy, a goal we have achieved by partnering with Sheffield businesses and sharing skills and information.
We also promised to help bring the UK in line with other nations – an ongoing result of our pioneering research and a target met by producing highly skilled graduates from across the globe.
Today, our University represents a global community whose citizenship stretches into more than 150 countries.
We collaborate with individuals, businesses and organisations to make a difference locally and globally.
The Sheffield Technical School was the product of local concern about the need for better technical training of the men responsible for running the great industries of Sheffield, particularly steelmaking.
A movement was started within Firth College to collect funds to create a technical department, which was established in 1884 as the Sheffield Technical School.
In 1886 the School moved to new premises on the site of the old Grammar School at St George's Square.
In 1897, the three institutions were amalgamated by Royal Charter to form the University College of Sheffield.
This step was part of the plan to link up with the Victoria University, a federation of the University Colleges at Manchester, Liverpool and Leeds.
By 1900, however, the Federal University was disintegrating and within a few years independent universities were formed from the three University Colleges.
On 31 May 1905 the University of Sheffield was granted its Royal Charter, and in July the new Firth Court Building on Western Bank was opened by King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra.
St George's Square remained the centre of Applied Science departments, with Arts, Medicine and Science being housed at Western Bank.
At the time of the University's foundation in 1905 there were 114 full-time students reading for degrees in Arts, Pure Science, Medicine and Applied Science.
In 1919 when returning ex-servicemen were admitted in large numbers, the full-time student figure rose to a short-lived peak of about 1,000.
By then the Faculty of Applied Science had split into Engineering and Metallurgy; the University's first Hall of Residence (the original Stephenson Hall) had been established; and the Edgar Allen library had opened (1909).
At that time the University was as committed to non-degree teaching as to teaching full-time students.
Courses covered not only many conventional academic subjects but also topics as diverse as cow-keeping, railway economics, mining and razor-grinding.
During the First World War some of these were replaced by teaching of (and participation in) munitions making, medical appliances design and production, translation and politics.
Between the two wars full-time student numbers stabilised at about 750 and expansion into new areas of specialist teaching and research continued slowly.
The Second World War brought with it new areas of specialist research and training - in, for example, radar, dietary and vitamin studies, production of anaesthetics and chemicals (as substitutes for materials previously imported from Europe), magnetism, fuel production and economy, naval cartography, glass manufacture and English language teaching.
Since the Second World War, many older houses have been brought into academic use and major new buildings have been constructed - the Main Library in 1959, and the Arts Tower, Hicks Building, Alfred Denny Building, Sir Robert Hadfield Building, Chemical Engineering Building, University House, five Halls of Residence and the Union of Students in the 1960s.
New buildings for Geography and Psychology followed in the 1970s, along with the Crookesmoor Building (for Law and Management), the Royal Hallamshire Hospital, and purpose-built student flats.
The next decade saw the opening of the Octagon Centre, the Sir Henry Stephenson Building (for engineering), and major extensions at the Northern General Hospital.
In the 1990s, new premises for the School of Clinical Dentistry, the Management School, the Division of Education, St George's Library (incorporating Blackwell's University Bookshop) and St George's Flats and Lecture Theatre were opened, together with extensions to Stephenson, Halifax, and Tapton Halls of Residence, and three new blocks of student flats.
The Regent Court building, which houses the Departments of Computer Science and Information Studies and the Sheffield Centre for Health and Related Research, were also completed.
The Union of Students underwent a £5 million development programme, improving welfare, social and meetings facilities.
Following the University's integration with the Sheffield and North Trent College of Nursing and Midwifery in 1995, a building programme provided new facilities for nursing and midwifery teaching and research.
This includes the extension and conversion of the St George's Hospital site on Winter Street, and the construction of a new building at the Northern General Hospital.
The University Arms, whose background colour is azure, contains a gold-edged open book at its centre, on which is inscribed Disce Doce (Learn and Teach).
On either side is a sheaf of eight silver arrows, which is derived from the shield of old Sheffield.
The gold crown is the Crown of Success and the White Rose of York denotes the University's home county.
The scroll carries the motto of Firth College, Rerum Cognoscere Causas (To Discover the Causes of Things; from Virgil's Georgics II, 490).
The coat of arms should not be confused with the University's logo, which appears at the top left of this page.
The logo consists of a redrawn version of the coat of arms set alongside the University's name in Source Serif font.
The logo complements but does not supersede the coat of arms, which remains the University's official heraldic symbol.
Reproduction of the University's Coat of Arms is restricted by copyright to formal University of Sheffield documents.
It may not be used by external organisations in their marketing activities, whether in hard copy or on the web.
Sustainability at Sheffield
New buildings, facilities and centres
Our vision: our values and our story

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/careers/home:
Studying at Sheffield is more than just a qualification.
We want you to leave university with the skills and confidence you need for the future you want.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/career/placements:
Whatever your goals, work placements can help you develop new skills, build contacts and prepare for your future career.
That’s why, from 2023, the majority of our undergraduate courses give you the choice to undertake a placement year as part of your degree.
Placements give you real work experience opportunities that make you stand out.
You’ll be applying the knowledge you’ve already gained during your degree to real-world situations, and have an opportunity to test out a career in a chosen industry.
It’s worth knowing that some employers can offer graduate positions for when you have completed your degree.
Our partners include McLaren, Siemens and the NHS.
Major companies around the world are keen to recruit our students because our degrees have a global reputation for excellence.
Our students have had placements with IBM, AstraZeneca, the Home Office and a wide variety of smaller organisations, including Tribosonics and B.
Braun Medical Ltd.
We’ll support you from day one.
All our placement students receive support from the start to understand how the process works and how to make the most of opportunities.
That means you can feel confident that your choices are shaping your future.
Most students will earn a salary during a placement.
Many find that their placement year increases their confidence, sharpens their focus on their subject area and makes their CV shine - meaning they gain so much whilst learning in the process.
Many courses here at Sheffield offer the option to take a year out to gain experience and I can highly recommend taking this opportunity.
I am really enjoying my placement so far and can’t wait to continue learning and developing as well as applying my knowledge to the last two years of my degree.
Micah Massop
MEng Civil and Structural Engineering with a Year in Industry
I’ve made a great network of contacts here during my placement year who I hope to keep in touch with throughout my career.
I have a better understanding of what I enjoy, how I work and what kind of work culture suits me.
The richness of this experience can’t be understated and has had a positive impact on my professional and personal development.
Emily Beatrice Smith
BA History and Philosophy with a Placement Year
Take a look at our undergraduate prospectus to see if you can take a placement year as part of your course.
There are some courses which include a built-in industrial placement year, or you can opt into this opportunity if you think it might be for you once you get here!
If there’s anything you’re unsure about, we’re always here for a chat .
The Careers Service

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/collaborate/contact:
Interested in knowledge exchange, partnerships and support?
Email collaborate@sheffield.ac.uk with comprehensive project details.
This will allow us to quickly identify the ideal team to support your needs.
Careers and employability service
City and regional engagement
Schools and Colleges Liaison Team

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/alumni/contacts:
Whether you’re a new graduate or a seasoned alumnus, we’re here to keep you connected with your University.
Get in touch either by email or phone and we'll be happy to help.
The dedicated teams listed below are here to answer any questions you may have.
Contact the Alumni Volunteering Team
Become an alumni volunteer
Contact Alumni Events Team
Upcoming events
Contact International Alumni Relations Team
International alumni groups
Campaigns and Alumni Relations University of Sheffield 40 Victoria Street Sheffield S10 2TN
Visitors using Sat Nav: Use postcode S3 7QB
Replacement certificates and academic verification
Alumni volunteering
Alumni events
International alumni
Contact the Giving team

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/news/contact-us:
Please contact one of our team members below.
For out-of-hours enquiries, please call +44 7725 213702.
Please note the out-of-hours line only accepts phone calls, do not send text messages.
mediateam@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/contact/prospective-students/enquiry-form:
Please complete the form with your question, and our dedicated Enquiries team will get back to you as soon as possible.
You can also contact us in a different way .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/country-list:
Choose your country from the A-Z list to get information specific to you, including entry requirements, visits, scholarships and who to contact.
Can't see your country or region in the list?
Visit our general information page for international students or our general information page for European students .
Australia
Argentina
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei
Canada
Chile
China (PRC)
Colombia
Cyprus
Ecuador
Egypt
France
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Hong Kong (SAR)
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Lebanon
Libya
Macao (SAR)
Malawi
Malaysia
Mauritius
Mexico
Morocco
Nepal
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Qatar
Romania
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sudan
Switzerland
Sri Lanka
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
Turkey
UAE
Uganda
Ukraine
USA
Venezuela
Vietnam
Zambia
Zimbabwe

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/quick-guide:
Welcome to Sheffield.
There’s a place for you here.
Sheffield is an extraordinary place to live and study.
It’s one of the major cities in the UK, yet 60% of it is green space.
It’s a city that’s safe, affordable, creative and welcoming.
Live here and you’ll get a vibrant big city feel as well as the space and adventure of the Peak District National Park which is (almost) on your doorstep.
Over half a million people live in Sheffield, and students make up about 10% of the population
Sheffield is an affordable city for student life according to the Royal Bank of Scotland Student Living Index 2024
Sheffield is one of the Top 10 best student cities according to the Student Crowd Best Student Cities 2024
Sheffield is known for its music, art and digital scenes, and has one of the largest regional theatre complexes outside London
A third of the city lies within the borders of the Peak District National Park.
Stroll around or study in over 250 gardens, parks and woodlands.
And we have over four million trees (and counting)
Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2024, 2023, 2022, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017
Our global reputation for teaching and research attracts more than 29,000 students from over 150 countries
Sheffield is safe with welcoming spaces for LGBT+ students, including LGBT+ University accommodation
Our students talk about their experiences living in Sheffield.
Fancy exploring Sheffield at your own pace?
You can follow our self-guided city tour leaflet.
Download our self-guided city tour
Food and drink
Arts and culture
Music and nightlife
Sport and health
The outdoor city
Shopping

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/food-and-drink:
Whatever you fancy, there’s guaranteed to be something to delight your tastebuds in Sheffield.
Certain corners of Sheffield are defined by the food and drink they offer.
Whether you're into street food or pub grub, you’ll find something to satisfy your tastebuds.
Take yourself to London Road for a culinary tour around the world.
Sample Greek, Turkish, Chinese, Malaysian, Japanese, Mexican and more all within a five-minute walk.
Head to Kelham Island for a local beer.
Or The Devonshire Quarter for independent coffee shops.
Enjoy colourful cocktails at some of the city's best bars including Piña , Picture House Social and Forum .
Or try delicious street food at our monthly Peddler Market.
During my time in Sheffield, I found the city to be lively and multicultural and was delighted to find cuisine options, from Middle Eastern food and halal options to South and East Asian and European food.
Connie Yan
Dentistry
Eating on a student budget is really easy and there are lots of affordable places around campus.
Within 30 minutes walk from campus there are restaurants from around the globe – Chinese, Italian, Caribbean, Thai, Lebanese, Japanese as well as British/ American food.
Having all these options is great for the adventurous eater and for international students, there is bound to be a place that reminds you of home.
Kelci Vittachi
Landscape Architecture
You can find incredible vegan and vegetarian food across Sheffield.
Fully vegan outlets include Church: Temple of Fun or you can try more colourful veggie treats at Pom Kitchen and South Street Kitchen .
If you get peckish on campus, there's over 20 cafes to choose from across the university offering tasty, convenient and ethically sourced bites.
If you’re craving a taste of home, or looking for looking for authentic international produce Sheffield’s numerous international supermarkets can help.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/sport:
Whether participant or spectator - Sheffield is home to a wealth of sporting activity.
Watch famous professional sides.
Discover the perfect backdrop for unique outdoor sports (think BMX, climbing, rowing).
And choose from welcoming spaces to improve your health and wellbeing.
In Sheffield, Sport can be anything you want it to be.
Our students love to get together and play all kinds of sports.
Our elite athletes are supported to thrive through our Elite Sports Performance Scheme .
Hundreds of students are in teams, playing in our sport leagues.
Others just like a casual game of five-a-side once a week, or a social run.
In a city packed with activity, you’ll find groups perfectly suited to your interests and fitness level.
We've got all the facilities you need: floodlit synthetic pitches, a brand new refurbished gym, sports hall, fitness studio, indoor cycling studio, multi-purpose active rooms and squash courts at Goodwin Sports Centre.
At Norton Sports Park, we have 45 acres of grass and synthetic pitches for rugby, football, hockey, and cricket!
Students enjoy discounted memberships and flexible options to use our facilities.
If you love the outdoors, the Peak District National Park is right on your doorstep.
Climbers flock to Sheffield for the excellent array of indoor climbing walls.
From the Monsal Trail to picturesque reservoir loops, the nearby Peak District has tons of glorious routes to charm cyclists and walkers.
It’s also the perfect place to try something a bit different, including BMX, skateboarding, caving and rowing.
This city is full of active and supportive people, keen to find new devotees for the sport they love.
Letting off steam, being social and keeping active are all big boosters for our wellbeing - and with so much on offer, you’ll find it easy to discover the sport that works for you.
Take part in Sport at Sheffield
The facilities at Goodwin (the University’s sports centre) are amazing.
I've had professional help from the coaches there – they tailor programmes to help you improve.
And being able to train on ice at Ice Sheffield at least three times a week allows me to put everything I do in the gym into practice.
My advice for new students?
Take every opportunity that comes your way because in Sheffield the opportunities are endless and you don’t know where it could take you.
By taking every opportunity I have made Team GBU and played my first professional ice hockey game
Solomon Smith
Economics and Philosophy
Each year, students from the city’s two universities compete at venues across the city region for the coveted varsity trophy.
Events include a wide and diverse range of individual and team sports.
Everything from road cycling, climbing and American football to the biggest ice hockey event outside of North America.
Events are enthusiastically attended by students and the wider university community.
In 2024, the University of Sheffield were crowned the Varsity champions for the 10th year!
Will you be part of the Black and Gold community?
I was amazed by how dramatically emotional I was – waving, shouting and feeling the indescribable joy and overwhelming frustration, with hundreds of people sharing the same faith in our team
Beyond university, Sheffield has a rich sporting culture.
Sports fans will find teams to fall in love with and exhilarating sports to get involved in across Sheffield.
As well as two professional sides in Sheffield Wednesday and United, the city is a hotbed of grassroots football and the birthplace of the modern game.
Founded in 1857, Sheffield FC is the world's oldest club.
Just across the city you'll find Hallam FC playing at Sandygate – the oldest football stadium on Earth.
Choose to watch ice hockey with the Sheffield Steelers, both codes of rugby with the Sheffield Tigers and Eagles, the Sheffield Sharks and Sheffield Hatters basketball sides, and speedway at Owlerton Stadium – the fastest track in Britain.
Or sink your teeth into entire tournaments, including the legendary World Snooker championships at the Crucible and the electrifying British Bouldering Championships.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/arts-and-culture:
Sheffield is a creative city with a rich cultural heritage and thriving contemporary arts scene.
Sheffield is full of creative energy.
Art, theatre and history gems can be found on pretty much every street corner.
Sheffield Performance Venues is located on the university campus and is made up of three iconic venues - the Octagon, Firth Hall and the Drama Studio.
They host a wide programme of live music and performance events to both entertain and educate.
With big name gigs, comedy events and conferences at the Octagon, a curated concerts programme at Firth Hall and seasonal theatre festival, Enable US, at the Drama Studio, there's something for everyone.
Museums Sheffield offers three great venues in the city centre, which celebrate home-grown talent and bring outstanding international experiences to Sheffield.
There's the spectacular Millennium Gallery for art, crafts and history.
The Graves Gallery's breathtaking collection of visual art spans centuries and continents.
And next to the University there's Weston Park Museum, where you can explore natural history, art and events from the city’s social history.
For a further glimpse into Sheffield's past, a visit to Bishops' House is a must.
Pioneering contemporary art can be found at Site Gallery , S1 Artspace and Bloc Projects, and those with a keen eye will discover a thriving underground and street art scene - including pieces by Pete McKee and Phlegm.
Next to the Peace Gardens and the Millennium Gallery you'll find Sheffield's award-winning Winter Garden where you can explore 2,500 plants from around the world, catch an exhibition or have a coffee and put your feet up.
Many of Sheffield’s museums and galleries are free or discounted for students, making it easy to absorb some culture without breaking the bank!
And if you’re a theatre lover, you’ll find one of the largest regional theatre complexes outside of London in the Crucible Theatre .
They offer £5 tickets for young people.
You’ll also find a diverse offering at Theatre Deli .
Sheffield has a vibrant arts scene, with various exhibitions held throughout the year to display independent artists’ works.
These include Open Up Sheffield, Art in the Gardens (held in the Botanical Gardens) and the Great Sheffield Art Show.
Museums and art galleries in Sheffield showcase the city’s rich industrial history and give a glimpse of life in the past.
The most popular is the Millenium Gallery, which houses the beloved Ruskin collection.
During my time in Sheffield, I have found the city to be lively and multicultural.
There's no shortage of festivals in Sheffield.
Whatever you're into, you'll find something you'll love.
Big names and grass roots, 40,000 people descending on Hillsborough Park and fringe events all over the city.
It’s loud, it’s fun, and it happens every summer.
Previous headliners have included Noel Gallagher’s High Flying Birds, Dizzee Rascal and the Courteeners.
A festival of literature and ideas featuring some of the world’s leading authors, poets and thinkers.
Showcasing the art of the documentary, this vital programme of screenings,talks and premieres brings filmmakers from all over the world to Sheffield.
We bring together the University’s academics and professionals from Sheffield’s cultural, creative and digital industries to bring our research to life in exciting, entertaining and innovative ways.
Sheffield has a great range of festivals hosted all year round - there's something for everyone with music festivals like Tramlines, Bassfest and Get Together.
Or if you fancy checking out something a little more arty, you could go to Off the Shelf, Doc/Fest, or the Festival of the Mind.
Ruby Watson
English Literature

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/outdoor-city:
As one of the greenest cities in Europe and with the Peak District National Park for a back garden, it’s no surprise that Sheffield has declared itself The Outdoor City.
If you’re an adventurous outdoorsy person, or you’ve always wanted to be, you couldn’t pick a better place to study.
Ranked as the greenest city in the UK (NatWest’s Green Cities Report 2021), over 60% of our city is green space.
There are way more trees than people.
Choose from an impressive 250 parks, woodlands and gardens and discover a city full of adventure.
The peaks offer opportunities for a multitude of outdoor activities with walks, running trails and hill climbing, road cycling or mountain biking.
It is a real privilege to have such amazing countryside so close and it is a great place for me to undertake my hobbies.
It also provides a welcome change of pace from the stresses of general life
Greg Godwin
Medicine
There are so many ways to get active and enjoy the vast green spaces in Sheffield.
Hikers, runners and cyclists flock to its surrounding hills, ancient woods and winding valleys.
If you fancy climbing, you couldn’t pick a better place than Sheffield - it’s known as the UK’s climbing capital.
A third of the city is in the Peak District National Park , meaning its paths, hills, crags, reservoirs and lidos are easily accessible by bus and train.
Take a 15-minute train ride to the lovely Peak village of Grindleford, hike up Froggatt Edge or ramble out to Baslow, then come back and drink tea at the famous Grindleford station cafe.
For the fluffiest, friendliest field in Sheffield, head to the alpaca farm.
With a visitor centre and cafe, Mayfield Alpacas is on the Sheffield Round Walk route, right where Sheffield meets the Peak District.
Not sure where to start?
Our sports clubs take full advantage of local facilities and welcome complete beginners.
You might discover a hidden talent for Parkour.
Whatever your ability or experience, you’ll definitely find something that you love.
The Outdoor City
Hiking in the peaks has allowed me to spend time with my friends in a new way and I’ve been able to meet new people by organising big group walks as well as learning new skills such as climbing.
In the Peak District, there are good train and bus connections, as well as easy car access, making it very accessible for anyone who wants to give hiking a go.
Shefali Philip
This busy village is the starting point for some great walks, cycle routes and climbing spots.
It also offers award winning pubs and an open air swimming pool.
Bus: 30mins Car: 20mins Bike: 1hr
Home of the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire, this impressive estate is one of the best in the country.
Bus: 1hr Car: 30mins
Walk straight from Endcliffe Park to this village bordering the peaks, home of the Norfolk Arms pub and the Mayfield Alpaca farm.
Walk: 1hr Bus: 20mins Bike: 35mins
Unwind in surroundings that offer an array of plants from all over the world and beautiful glass Pavilions.
Walk: 10mins

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/music-and-nightlife:
From famous music venues to quirky late night cafes - Sheffield comes alive at night.
Just like in the daytime, Sheffield is a lively, creative, eclectic city after dark.
There are classic pubs and boutique bars, every type of live music and some of the best club nights anywhere in the UK.
With nearly 70 venues in Sheffield, you’ll be able to find gigs by local and international acts nearly every day of the week.
Venues include the legendary likes of the Leadmill and Sheffield Arena .
There’s music in former warehouses ( Hope Works ), in pubs and bars ( The Washington and Bungalows and Bears , for starters), basement ballrooms ( Picture House Social ), old factories ( Yellow Arch Studios ) and more.
Our Department of Music’s Concert Programme puts on more than 70 concerts a year, with performances by our students and visiting artists of international standing.
One of the most attractive aspects of Sheffield is its vibrant, exciting entertainment culture.
Sheffield is a city you will never find yourself bored in.
One of my favourite nights out in Sheffield is to see live music.
Whether this is at Sheffield arena where you can watch some of the largest artists in the world.
Or at the Leadmill in the city centre, where they often house artists, and offer a small-scale entertainment experience
Georgia Turton
Sociology
Sheffield centre is packed with busy clubs and lively bars.
You can start your night off by choosing from a huge range of chains and independent bars across Division Street and West Street.
Then get on your dancing shoes at places like Corporation or our award-winning Students’ Union.
There are student nights at many clubs, with unique themes to enjoy and discounts to be had.
Sheffield's night scene isn’t all about drinking.
It's about finding new things, expressing yourself, sharing good times with your friends and making memories.
Explore late night dessert venues on London Road, challenge your friends at the Treehouse board game cafe or try delicious mocktails on West Street.
I don't drink alcohol, but most bars in Sheffield offer a generous selection of mocktails.
Bars such as Revolution have great playlists, amazing student deals for drinks and a great atmosphere
Kamohelo Modipa

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/shopping:
From high street to high end, gem-filled second hand stores to tastefully curated independents - Sheffield is a great place to shop.
Sheffield is a major city, so you’ll find most of the big national brands represented.
You’ll also find quirky, independent originals as well as high-end designer stores.
For high-street shopping, the city centre is host to well-known retail names.
Meadowhall, one of the largest shopping centres in Britain, has pretty much any big retailer you can think of under its roof and is only a few minutes away from town by bus, tram or train.
If you end up living in the Broomhill or Crookes area, as many of our students do, there are some great places to be discovered.
For second-hand bargains, you’ll find lots of charity shops in both areas.
Broomhill is also home to Sheffield’s largest record shop, Record Collector, for all your vinyl needs.
Sheffield has an amazing mix of shops, restaurants and cafés that mean that everyone's individual shopping preferences are met!
As one of the biggest cities in the UK, we have some of the best known fashion outlets on our doorstep.
We also have plenty of independent shops and cafés throughout the city centre and only a short walk from central campus.
Luke Cleland
Psychology
Sheffield is full of independent stores.
Several areas of the city have grown to become quirky shopping districts in their own right.
From local makers and vintage treasures to designer boutiques, you’ll find an eclectic mix of shops, bars and restaurants that are worth a browse.
Devonshire Quarter, Ecclesall Road and the Antiques Quarter are a few notable names.
Our independents love attracting students, so special offers, samplers and one-off events are common throughout the student calendar.
It's always worth asking in store if they offer student discount.
One of my favourite things about Sheffield is the number of independent shops.
The owners are always so kind and chatty, and I always feel that it’s through these people that you best experience the community of Sheffield.
One area which is home to a lot of these businesses is the Devonshire Quarter, with plant shops such as MoonKo and Plantology; vintage clothes shops like Vulgar and Preloved Kilo; and independent bars and restaurants including Bungalows and Bears and Copper Pot.
Some more great areas for independent businesses are Crookes, Ecclesall Road and the Moor Market.
Joseph Cardoza
Architectural Engineering

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/our-neighbourhoods:
Our neighbourhoods have something for everyone.
Students find Sheffield is a place they can call home, with many choosing to stay here after graduation.
There’s lots to discover beyond campus.
Our students love living in local neighbourhoods with big student populations, like Crookes and Broomhill.
Division Street is a ten minute walk from campus, and is lined with independent vintage shops, cafes and bars.
Kelham Island, two minutes away from the campus by tram, has been voted one of the world’s coolest neighbourhoods.
And though it’s big, Sheffield is pretty easy to get around.
You can walk to loads of places, or hop on the bus or tram.
Ranmoor/Endcliffe is, the largest undergraduate student community in Sheffield.
It’s a short walk from campus and offers a safe and welcoming environment with on-site support all year round.
The accommodation is close to some of Sheffield’s most popular parks and is a short bus ride away from the Peak District.
There’s onsite facilities including a shop and a bar, and Residence Life mentors arrange over 1000+ activities each year to keep your social calendar busy.
Explore our accommodation
Broomhill is a short walk from campus, on your way to the Endcliffe/Ranmoor residences.
Crookes and Crookesmoor are just next to Broomhill.
A lot of students – especially second and third years – rent houses here so they can be more independent.
You’ll find busy high streets with a good range of shops, from pharmacies, banks and charity shops, to zero-waste shops and supermarkets.
All areas are on main bus routes, with buses roughly every ten minutes to campus and the city.
Broomhill is full of cute cafes, funky charity shops, cool pubs and delicious restaurants.
Personal recommendations would be Proove for some of the best pizza you’ve ever tasted.
Another fantastic area to explore nearby is Crookes, home to one of the best places to visit – Bolehills park.
On any given night, groups of students can be found huddled on picnic blankets watching the sunset over Sheffield
Martha Page
Ecclesall Road is hugely popular with students and locals.
A short walk from campus, it’s packed with cafes, restaurants and independent shops.
Once you discover Sharrow Vale Road, you quickly become a regular.
Tucked away behind Ecclesall Road, it has  quirky pubs, stacks of indie shops and cafes and one of the best chippies in the country (Two Steps).
Ecclesall Road is a place you can visit time after time and there’s always something different to do.
Sharrow Vale road is just behind Ecclesall Road which has cute little cafes including Eve kitchen which do the most amazing fresh doughnuts.
Then you can grab an Instagrammable snack from Pom kitchen who specialise in vegetarian and vegan food
Aminah Patel
Two minutes from campus by tram and a short walk away from the city centre, there’s one of the coolest neighbourhoods in the world* waiting to be explored.
*Kelham Island is the 35th coolest neighbourhood on the world, according to Time Out 2022
If you love music, the regular gigs at Yellow Arch Studios – where the Arctic Monkeys began – are a great introduction to Sheffield’s grass roots scene.
And there are microbreweries, indie shops and art galleries in the area.
But for me, Kelham Island’s biggest draw is the huge variety of amazing food
Tori Wensley
International Criminology
With a distinctly independent vibe, Division Street is the place to be if you want to try something a little bit different.
With plenty of cafes, vintage shops and bars - this alternative corner of the city offers plenty of treasures.
At its heart is Devonshire Green, which is usually full of people hanging out, enjoying food from the local takeaways or soaking up the sun.
Vibrant and multicultural, London Road and Abbeydale Road sit south of the city centre, around a 20-minute walk from campus.
Although a popular destination for its choice of restaurants and takeaways, you’ll also discover international food shops to cook up a feast at home.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/community:
Sheffield is an inclusive place that welcomes people from all sorts of different backgrounds and interests, a wealth of different perspectives and specialisms.
Get involved in Sheffield’s community and feel right at home.
You needn’t worry about being on your own.
There are over 50,000 students in the city, from all kinds of backgrounds and from every part of the world.
Sheffield is famously relaxed and friendly, a major city with a community feel.
You can be yourself here.
Living in University accommodation, you’ll find there’s a busy calendar of events to help you get to know each other.
You may also want to join one of the 300 student societies (clubs) based on campus – it’s a brilliant way to meet people who love the same things you do.
Our SU - ranked best in the UK – has committees to support specific student groups including LGBT+, BAME, disabled and international students.
These groups are also a great place to get to know the city with people who will understand your interests.
Our SU also runs a vast ‘give it a go’ programme, meaning you can try something new and meet fellow students without having to commit straight away!
Our students are part of the fabric of the city and important members of the Sheffield community.
Thousands of students make an impact every year by volunteering in the local community.
Opportunities range from community allotments to asylum seeker support.
Our students have incredible skills and use them to take part in the city.
How could you get involved?
Volunteering at Sheffield
You’ll never be at a loss for something to do here.
Sheffield Volunteering allows you to walk in and find a project you feel passionate about.
Give it a Go lets you try out different societies without making a commitment.
Forge Media gives students the power to write, produce and present for the student newspaper, radio station and TV channel.
The Union has its own cinema and ten different food outlets.
There are regular gigs and club nights, comedians and quizzes.
The fast-paced lifestyle can be fun, but the Union also provides important services such as a Job Shop, help finding accommodation and advice on every aspect of student life.
Day and night, it acts as a central, safe space for students, no matter who they are or what they like to do
Finlay Panting
Computer Science & Business Management
With so many students falling in love with Sheffield during their studies, it’s no surprise that many of them choose to stay in Sheffield to start homes, businesses and families.
Studying with us can be the start of an exciting future.
Whether you stay with us for your degree or beyond, there are loads of opportunities to shape Sheffield and let it shape you.
Our role in the city and region

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/jobs-and-careers:
Sheffield is a thriving city with creation and collaboration at its centre.
You’ll find lots of opportunities to earn and develop alongside your studies, and don’t be surprised if you decide to stay on and build your career in the region too.
Outside of the classroom, you’ll find yourself in a city full of opportunity.
As a major city with an innovative ethos, there’s lots of ways to take advantage of volunteering, work and internship options.
Many students choose to work part-time during their studies, or during holiday periods, to boost their skills, meet new people and earn money.
We’re home to everything from major companies and successful independents, making it possible to find part-time work* suited to you.
Sheffield has benefitted from major investment and development in the past decade and is now a major city where businesses thrive.
This means there are lots of opportunities for you to get ahead in exciting industries, and you may be able to take on work experience whilst you study.
This includes digital SMEs, independent producers, community projects, FTSE 100 giants and large public sector organisations.
Our engineering and manufacturing industries are among the best in the country, and our creative and digital industries sector is thriving.
Many of our students also grow their skills, confidence and community connections through volunteering.
This is a great way to give back to your local community and learn the kind of skills that make a big impact to people’s lives.
Roles range from helping at community allotments to supporting mental health charities, and can be found on the Sheffield Volunteering website.
In addition to working for my academic departments and the Global Engagement team as a Student Ambassador, perhaps the most exciting opportunity I had was to do a summer internship.
I first did a 100-hour internship as a marketing officer for a Sheffield-based not-for-profit.
I felt very supported while doing my internships, both by my academic supervisor, my manager and by the University.
Andreea Huidan
Politics and Philosophy
* If you are an international student, you need to check the terms of your student visa before taking on any part-time work.
Careers

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/sheffield-guide/getting-around:
Sheffield is easy to get around and offers great transport links to other major cities.
Sheffield is in the centre of the UK with great transport links to other major cities.
By train, we’re just 2 hours from London and within an hour of Manchester, Leeds and Nottingham.
Sheffield is only an hour and a half from Manchester or East Midlands Airport, so you can easily get to us from overseas or explore other countries.
It’s easy to travel around Sheffield.
Our campus is a 25 minute walk from the train station, on the edge of the city centre.
You won’t need to go far to find well-known restaurants, major and international supermarkets, cinemas, bars and places to meet your friends.
Sheffield is the perfect city to explore on foot and there’s also easy public transport options to every part of the city.
As a student, you’ll benefit from discounted student bus and tram tickets with a Zoom Beyond 18-21 Travel Pass.
If you fancy an outdoor adventure, you’ll have the Peak District National Park on your doorstep with fast public transport options to popular hikes, country houses and tranquil green villages.
You can find train times and prices on the National Rail website.
Find out more about Sheffield Student Bus Passes offered by Stagecoach.
For local travel, visit Travel South Yorkshire .
Visit the Peak District website to plan your visit.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/post-study-support/contact-ssid:
The Student Services Information Desk (SSiD) is a key student and graduate service, answering a wide range of enquiries every day.
We also aim to provide a comprehensive referral service where we are unable to assist directly.
Level 3 Students' Union building Western Bank Sheffield S10 2TG
Opening times for graduate and third party enquiries:
Available on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, from 10am to 12pm and 2pm to 4pm.
Our live chat service is for third parties and graduates who are unable to come onto campus.
Live chat
Open from 10am to 4pm Monday to Friday, our email service is for third parties and graduates who are unable to come onto campus.
We encourage you to come to the SSiD drop-in service in the Students' Union for a quicker service (number 120 on the University Location Map ).
The Student Online Support Hub can direct you to any relevant support you may need.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/funding:
From scholarships and awards to bursaries and loans, there are various sources of funding that can help with your studies.
Before coming to university, it’s important to consider the costs associated with university life .
If you are eligible for loans to fund your studies but do not take them, you will need to plan your finances carefully.
However, there is still information available to help you make an informed decision about how to finance your studies.
Information for students who do not take out a student loan
Information on the financial support available for care leavers, estranged students, and students with caring responsibilities, including how to apply.
Financial support for care leavers
Financial support for estranged students
Financial support for students with caring responsibilities
Sheffield is the 4th best student city according to the Student Crowd Best Student Cities 2022.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/support/discrimination-harassment:
An outline of how we tackle all forms of discrimination and harassment.
We’re proud to be an inclusive, tolerant and diverse community, where the diversity of people, opinions, and beliefs can and does thrive.
We appreciate that sometimes students will suffer prejudice, discrimination, harassment and violence on account of their race, sexual orientation, gender identity, faith or disability, or are victims of hate crime.
We’re actively tackling all areas of discrimation and harassment, and are committed to ensuring that all our students and staff are confident that they study, work and live in a safe and inclusive environment.
If any member of our community experiences any form of discrimination, they can seek support or report through our dedicated Report and Support platform.
We’re committed to supporting people who have experienced any form of discrimination such as harassment, abuse, bullying, or sexual violence that may be based on race, gender, sexuality, disability or other characteristics.
We have dedicated and trained staff across the University who can provide support and advice.
We’re actively addressing sexual violence, harrassment and abuse on campus by ensuring that all students have access to appropriate support.
Any forms of harassment and sexual misconduct will not be tolerated.
Our Sexual Violence and Harrassment Steering Group, chaired by the Deputy Vice Chancellor, is committed to ensuring that we have a clear and concise approach to preventing and responding to all forms of harrassment and sexual misconduct.
Our Sexual Violence Liason Officer team (SVLOs) have had comprehensive training by LimeCulture (UK’s leading sexual violence training and consultancy organisation).
This equips them with the knowledge and specialist skills to identify risk and appropriately support the needs of students and staff who have experienced sexual violence.
Our SVLO team is also accredited by Male Survivors Partnership and LimeCulture for services supporting male survivors of sexual violence.
These are rare and Sheffield is a safe and welcoming city for all students.
We work closely with our Students' Union and other organisations in the communities in which we work, live and study to ensure that effective links are developed to achieve this.
Our Security Management Team is heavily involved with partnership initiatives across the city, involving the police, Sheffield City Council, community groups and other stakeholders.
Our Head of Security is the chair of the city's multi-agency Hate Crime Priority group, which was formed to support and inform the work of the Sheffield Community Safety Partnership to address hate crimes across the city.
The group has strong links with the Sheffield Chinese Community Centre.
We have a highly trained security team available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.
If our students have concerns or want to report an incident, they should contact the Security Services team .
We also employ two South Yorkshire Police Officers who are dedicated to the University.
These officers act as a direct point of contact with South Yorkshire Police for ongoing investigations.
The officers are always available to speak with students to offer reassurance and guidance.
Policies

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/health-service/register:
Who is eligible and how to register with us.
You can register with the University Health Service if you are:
Unfortunately you cannot register with us if neither of the above apply to you.
You will also need to register elsewhere once you / your dependant has left the University of Sheffield.
Visit Find a GP to search for another practice that you are eligible to register at if needed.
Dependants of University of Sheffield students must live within our practice’s inner boundary to be able to register with us .
Our practice inner boundary includes the area shaded grey in the Google map below.
To search for your address , click the “full size” icon in the top right corner and use the search function in Google maps.
Check your eligibility , then select your status to be taken to the appropriate registration web page:
I'm a STUDENT
I'm a DEPENDANT of a UoS student
Neither of the above?
....
Visit Find a GP to search for another practice that you are eligible to register at.
When you register, you’ll be given a named accountable General Practitioner (GP) who is responsible for your overall care at the practice.
You can still request to book appointments with any doctor that you choose.
Contact reception if you want to know who your named GP is or if you have a preference of named GP.
About UHS
GP care when you’re away from university
Healthcare for International Students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/health-service/home:
The University Health Service (UHS) is a National Health Service (NHS) General Practice, focused on student health.
How to book and manage appointments, what to expect and more.
Book an appointment with UHS
Information about ordering and collecting prescriptions.
Prescriptions
How to register with the University Health Service.
Register with the Health Service
We will only contact you about test results if we need to discuss them with you.
Test results
When and how to apply for extenuating circumstances if you're experiencing medical difficulties that are affecting your studies.
Extenuating circumstances
When and how to request fit or sick notes for an employer.
Fit (sick) notes
Requests for appointments, non-repeat and urgent prescriptions, and other queries can be made via our online form
Use the NHS app to manage appointments, order and view repeat prescriptions, access your medical record, update your personal details and more.
NHS app
If you require urgent or emergency medical assistance there are a number of options.
If you are uncertain call 111 for advice.
You should only call a 999 ambulance for serious and life threatening conditions.
Emergencies
Find your NHS number, update your contact details / address, and request access to your medical record.
My Profile
Information for international students about National Health Service (NHS) entitlement, health insurance and immunisations before you arrive in the UK.
Healthcare for international students
Further information about clinics (including travel and sexual health), health information, referrals, local pharmacies, GP care away from University, and out-of-hours support.
More services and information
Information about our team, charges and fees, building accessibility, policies, Patient Participation Group (PPG) and more.
About us
How to provide feedback and complain.
Feedback & Complaints
Our opening times, contact details, address, and more.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/disability-dyslexia-support/home:
We're a specialist and friendly team that supports disabled applicants and students (including those undertaking postgraduate research), and the staff working with them.
We can support you if you have a long-term impairment or condition that has an impact on your studies.
Find out more about who we support
Some examples of support we can offer.
What support is available?
A three-step guide to accessing disability support at the University of Sheffield.
Access University disability support
Details of the evidence you need to provide to access disability support, and how to obtain it.
Providing evidence
How to set up a Disability and Dyslexia Support Service (DDSS) appointment.
Book an appointment with DDSS
An outline of the types of support workers available if you have a disability (eg notetakers, sign language interpreters) and who to contact.
Support worker service
How to apply for DSA to help pay for any extra study-related costs which you incur at University due to a disability (eg one-to-one support or specialist software).
Apply for DSA
Support for students who have dyslexia or another specific learning difference (SpLD) through the University's Disability and Dyslexia Support Service (DDSS).
Dyslexia & SpLD support
Why we use the term 'disabled students' and why (and how) we distinguish between 'disability' and 'impairment'.
Our terminology
To talk to a current disabled student about disability support or University life in general, go to Key Topics > Disabled Students via this link.
Talk to a current student
What we do with your information.
Sharing disability information
Information to help you to advise students on what support is available, and ensure that your recommendations are appropriate to our institution.
Information for DSA needs assessors
We are here to help and support disabled applicants to make the transition to the University of Sheffield.
Transition to University
A way for people with hidden disabilities to show that they may need extra support and understanding.
Learn more about the scheme
Guidance for disabled students on the University's attendance expectations, managing absences and accessing additional support.
Attendance matters
We offer ongoing support that is tailored to your situation and requirements.
Contact us to talk about the support we can put in place that would work for you.
Telephone: +44 114 222 1303
Email: disability.info@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/new-students/global-campus:
Global Campus is a programme of ongoing orientation that runs throughout the academic year.
It's open to all students looking for regular opportunities to meet others, make friends and settle into life in the University and the wider city.
We hold events and activities every day throughout the academic year.
Our Global Campus Ambassadors, in their pink tops, will be there to welcome you at all events and to help you settle in.
Our Orientation events and activities are designed to give you a little extra time to settle into life in Sheffield and the University.
Spring Semester Orientation will take place between 6 and 8 February 2025.
We have a varied programme of events and activities designed to help you settle into life in Sheffield and meet other students.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/bnbr-life-centre/home:
The BNBR Life Centre is here for all staff and students.
Our chaplains and religious advisers provide a listening ear and pastoral support to all people whatever their identity, religion, belief or no belief.
We are available in person, online, and via phone or video calls.
From Monday 4th August to Friday 22nd August, the Belief, No Belief and Religious (BNBR) Life Centre will be temporarily located at The Belonging Building, 210 Portobello, S1 4AE.
We are open 10am to 3pm Monday to Thursday during semester time.
We warmly welcome people to visit the Centre.
Access to the building is temporarily liable to disruption while certain works are completed, including installation of step-free access.
Please email bnbr-life@sheffield.ac.uk to check access.
If you would like to book an appointment to see a chaplain, please email us on bnbr-life@sheffield.ac.uk .
Hear about what is happening at the BNBR Life Centre and get information about our events and activities.
Sign up
If you want to drop in and see a chaplain, there is usually someone around between 10am to 3pm Monday to Thursday during semester time.
We are usually located at 205 Brook Hill, S3 7HG but from Monday 4th August to Friday 22nd August we can be temporarily found at The Belonging Building, 210 Portobello, S1 4AE .
We will be back in our usual home on Monday 25th August.
We work with communities with a strong sense of belonging, and we offer opportunities for worship, prayer and spiritual exploration.
We're here to support your student journey, from open day to graduation.
Find out about our BNBR Life Centre space, our facilities and the support we offer for students of all faiths and none.
The BNBR Life Centre is here to support staff and to help you support students.
Find out more about what we offer.
The Belief, No Belief & Religious Life Centre run various events and activities throughout the year.
Everyone is welcome!
More event info
Events calendar
Our weekly meditation sessions are pausing for a few weeks and will resume from Wednesday 10th September at 12.15pm.
These will be held in the Gathering room in the BNBR Life Centre at our new home in 205 Brook Hill .
We look forward to welcoming you then.
We’re inviting expressions of interest from people who’d like to volunteer in our team of Advisors and Associate Chaplains.
Our team focuses on building understanding, compassion and empowerment.
Further information
Cooking and eating well while at University can be a challenge, especially if you have specific dietary needs.
Our Feasts guide can help you prepare healthy, simple meals on a budget.
You can find a list of places of worship in Sheffield on each of our belief-specific chaplaincy pages.
Join a community of students who share your beliefs through the societies organised by the Sheffield Students' Union.
We are committed to treating everyone equally.
See our inclusions policy
A way of thinking about where you are right now, what to change and where you would like to be.
Find out more about Deep Search
We’re thrilled with the new home for the BNBR Life Centre: 205 Brook Hill.
It’s been a pleasure for us to be involved in two recent walks in the Peak District.
Taking part were students of various nationalities including British, Chinese, Kazakh and Spanish.
The annual University Lunchtime Carol Service was typically special this year.
Read what we get up to on a Peak District walk.
Sheffield women united against racism, Islamophobia and the far right at an event with South Yorkshire mayor Oliver Coppard.
Some of our team were honoured to speak at the event.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/academic-skills/home:
301 Academic Skills provides workshops, 1:1 appointments and online resources for study skills, maths and statistics, student research and peer learning activities.
Find out more about 301 and how it can support you before and during your studies.
More information
Our Student hub is full of resources to help you develop your academic skills.
With online resources, workshops and appointments available for study skills and maths and statistics.
Visit the Student hub (login required)
Find out more about the support we can offer to your department and your students.
Visit the Staff hub (staff login required)
Visit our suite of online academic skills resources.
Visit StudySkills@Sheffield

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/residence-life:
A home here guarantees you’ll live exclusively with University of Sheffield students from 150 countries.
And with the help of our Residence Life teams, you’ll have loads of support to settle in, stay focused and make friends.
Every year, our Residence Life teams put on about 1,000 events and other fun stuff to bring people together.
Dance lessons, cultural celebrations, fitness classes, film marathons…all completely free!
Events take place across the residences so there's always something close to you.
Their job is making life at university, and making new friends, as fun as it can possibly be.
Experience new things, meet new people and learn new skills.
You can even organise your own thing or ask us to add something to the weekly programme.
View upcoming events on the Student Hub
For many, moving to university is their first time living away from home.
The realities and complexities of student living can be overwhelming, that's where Residence Life Mentors come in.
They are current students at the University of Sheffield who have lived (or still live) in our accommodation, so they know exactly what you're going through and are there to support you.
After you move in, they do regular visits to your residence to check that everyone's okay and to help you with any queries you might have.
When you need us, our Residence Life Mentors and trained support network are here to help you navigate this scary, exciting time.
Mentors hold daily Community Cafes across the residences where you can pop by for a hot drink and a chat about anything you'd like.
Online sessions are also available if that's what you'd prefer.
Once you live with us you'll have access to the Student Hub where you'll find everything you need to know about Residence Life, with a dedicated Events section where you can filter by date and event category to find exactly what you're after.
You'll get a link to the Student Hub pages before you move in so you can take a look around and start planning what you're going to get involved with.
Wherever you live there are loads of options for meeting new friends or old ones, hanging out, socialising, studying and more!
Meet for a drink at The Edge Bar, hang out in The Green Room, hire tennis racquets, sunbathe on the lawn or go study by the pond.
Watch a movie in the cinema rooms, play pool, or practise music together - the options are endless.
Living in our accommodation means being part of a wider community of students from all over the world, where you can make friends, learn and grow, and get the most out of your time in Sheffield.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/access-sheffield/support-care-experienced-and-estranged-students:
At Sheffield, you’ll find all the support you need to fulfil your ambitions.
Discover how we can help you on your journey to the University of Sheffield, throughout your studies and beyond.
Someone who is care experienced will have lived in public care or as a looked-after child at any stage of their life up to the age of 18.
Including if you:
This doesn't cover time spent in boarding schools, working in care or healthcare settings, or if you're a carer yourself.
Estranged students have no relationship with, or support from, parents or carers.
We consider you an estranged student if:
Are you a student with caring responsibilities?
Explore the support and guidance we provide for carers .
We're committed to ensuring that you get the support you need at each stage of your journey.
Our team of experts are able to understand the often complex requirements that you may have if you’re care experienced or have become estranged from your family.
Hear from current students about their time as a student at Sheffield and the support they received.
You know what, the first day when I moved in the memories are so vivid still...it was a nice afternoon...if felt like a new chapter, I can't describe it.
Agnes
Whether you're just starting to think about your future or you're looking for more information about support at university, we're here for you.
If you're care experienced or estranged from your family, we can help you research your options and work through the UCAS application process.
Everything we do is supported by our student ambassadors - current students who are care experienced or are estranged from their families.
Visiting campus is a great opportunity to speak to us about applying to University.
We can arrange to meet you at one of our undergraduate open days or if you'd like to visit on a different day, one of our student ambassadors, who may have similar circumstances, can take you on a tour of campus.
You don't have to do this alone.
You're welcome to bring a supporter - whether it be a friend, guardian or social worker.
We even have an Access+ Travel Bursary that may help towards your travel costs.
There's a lot of people who are from different backgrounds ...
everyone just kind of gets along and accepts you for who you are.
Willow
If you're care experienced or are estranged from your family, you may be eligible for a contextual offer equivalent to one grade below the standard A Level entry requirements for your course, as part of Access+ .
Simply tell us your circumstances using our Access+ eligibility declaration .
We'd also encourage you to complete our Disrupted Studies Application form , to help us put your application into context.
As an estranged student or care leaver, you may be eligible for a university bursary.
This bursary is automatically awarded each year of study.
Unlike a loan, you don't have to pay it back.
You could get up to:
University bursary for care leavers
University bursary for estranged students
As well as receiving a bursary, you can apply for a range of scholarships, including:
When booking University of Sheffield accommodation , you will find contracts available for either 42 or 51 weeks, depending on the room type and property.
Accommodation is also available for the summer vacation period if you’re on a 42-week contract.
Our award-winning student residential support service, Residence Life will provide a busy calendar of social events and Residence Life mentors are always on hand to offer advice and support.
You'll be asked for a deposit when confirming your booking.
If you're experiencing any financial challenges, contact the Student Fees and Funding team who can explore your options with you funding@sheffield.ac.uk
You can stay in University accommodation throughout your studies and as a returning student you'll have the chance to choose your room early before most bookings open.
If you’re a care leaver or have become estranged from your family and do not have anyone to act as a guarantor, you might be eligible for our accommodation guarantor scheme .
The guarantee could help cover your rent if you fall into financial difficulty and cannot pay.
This year we're inviting all care experienced and estranged students to a shopping and social trip at IKEA, to pick up any last minute bits for your room.
Travel and shopping costs will be covered by the University.
If you can't make it, we'll send you an IKEA voucher.
After accepting your place we’ll get in touch about joining the University and make sure you're aware of all the support you can access.
Your designated contact in the Student Experience, Diversity and Inclusion team will keep in touch and help with any issues you have.
Wellbeing advisors in your faculty and a contact in your department will also be on hand to provide support.
Your mental wellbeing is really important to us.
Our Student Access Mental Health Support service will help you explore the broad range of psychological support available to you.
You can get a support plan to help you access additional academic help and identify any other challenges that you may need support with.
All our students are allocated a personal tutor and departments have support staff to help with any issues you might have.
Our Careers and Employability Hub is available to help you throughout your studies and for as long as you need us after graduation.
Whatever your starting point, and whatever support you need, the Careers and Employability Hub can help you reach your full potential.
You may also be eligible for dedicated additional support through Equal Opportunities in Careers.
If you have any questions about applying or visiting us, get in touch.
You can find out about anything from arranging priority consideration for your university accommodation, to concerns about studies and student life.
access@sheffield.ac.uk
If you have any questions about funding, get in touch with the Student Funding Team:
If you support a young person in care (Year 7 to Year 10), contact the Higher Education Progression Partnership (Hepp) , which works across the South Yorkshire Mayoral Combined Authority to encourage more young people to consider higher education opportunities by providing targeted activities for children in care.
Support and guidance for carers

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/ranmoor-endcliffe:
These two student residences running either side of Fulwood Road are actually one big community – Sheffield’s biggest in fact, with 4,500 undergraduates and postgraduates from all over the world calling it home.
Modern and self-contained, there’s plenty to do in Ranmoor & Endcliffe, with shops, a bar and an on-site fitness suite for when you want to stay local and focus on studying – plus friendly staff on hand whenever you need them.
With all the greenery the place has almost a rural feel – even though you’re just a short walk from the city.
Endcliffe has a very friendly community, where it feels safe yet it’s always busy.
I always know there’s staff nearby to help if needed which makes me feel safe
Winn, 2023-24
Feedback from our residents pulled from StudentCrowd
I loved my experience here, made loads of friends.
All the people who work on site, the security and maintenance are super helpful and respond in good time.
There’s always activities on at The Edge.
And Res Life have been amazing."
4/5 student review on Derwent, Endcliffe
Member7126257 on StudentCrowd​​​​
Ramshaw Apartments provide excellent value for money, offering a safe and convenient location close to the University, shops, and public transport.
The management team is responsive...The apartments are regularly cleaned...
organized social events help build a strong sense of community ...Overall, Ramshaw Apartments are a fantastic choice for students seeking comfort, convenience, and community."
4/5 student review on Ramshaw, Ranmoor
Member12127193 on StudentCrowd
Location is near stunning green spaces such as Endcliffe Park which is a 7 minute walk away.
The Edge Bar is located a 2 minute walk away from the flats and is a great social hotspot with student friendly prices and a bubbly atmosphere.
Village Store is also conveniently parked a 3 minute walk away for any emergency shops."
4/5 student review on Endcliffe Vale Flats, Endcliffe
Member12126357 on StudentCrowd
Great student accommodation , very big rooms with lots of storage space, kitchens have everything you could need."
5/5 student review on Ravenstone, Ranmoor
Member12127000 on StudentCrowd
I like Crewe!
Big rooms, nice courtyard view, good amenities.
The kitchens are large and have everything you need, bathrooms do the job, laundrette on site ...definitely great value for money..."
3/5 student review on Crewe, Endcliffe
Member11125805 on StudentCrowd
Your rent includes all utility bills (water, gas, electric), contents insurance, and you'll have access to the university's campus-wide WiFi across the residences, as well as Residence Life events and sports activities throughout the year.
You’ll also get up to 20 washes in the launderettes across the residences, and with the new Washpoint machines in Ranmoor & Endcliffe your laundry detergent and fabric softener are included in the price so you don’t need to buy your own.
The prices below are for the 2025-26 academic year
*Prices correct as of February 2025.
The final value to be charged will be provided during the booking process along with the payment schedule.
View the 360-degree virtual tours of our Ranmoor & Endcliffe residences
Ranmoor & Endcliffe Accommodation
Take a flying tour around Ranmoor & Endcliffe with our drone flythrough!
The Village Store is a nice little shop open to students and the public where you can top up your essentials.
There are launderettes located across the residences, and there's guaranteed to be one a short walk from your accommodation, they are all cashless and even come with detergent and fabric softener included!
The Edge Hub is a comfy place to study, with sofas, computers, printers, drink-making facilities and a Community Fridge too.
The Edge is also home to The Green Room, where you can hang out with friends, watch movies, study in peace, play some games and maybe even enjoy a spot of yoga?
A great place to hang out in the heart of Endcliffe, with a great range of food and drink available, live sports, and the immensely popular Sunday Quiz!
Found in The Ridge at Ranmoor, our 24/7 fitness suite contains all the exercise equipment you need, and it's free for all our residents!
This comfy social and study area is great for group hangouts or solo study sessions.
Watch a movie, play table tennis, jam on the Steinway piano, or just take a minute to relax.
The study area can be found upstairs and has computers which are free for students to use.
More than half of Sheffield is green space, and the area around Ranmoor & Endcliffe is one of the greenest – with big old houses, established gardens, parks and woodlands.
Not to mention the surprises that wait among the twists and turns of Eccy Road and Broomhill.
Endcliffe Park If you live in University accommodation, this beautiful Victorian park is on your doorstep.
Botanical Gardens Magnificent, manicured grounds with a broad variety of plants and flowers.
Ecclesall Road and Sharrow Vale Rd Ecclesall Road (or Eccy road) has tonnes of cute cafes, charity shops and restaurants, making it a top location for a wander or a date night.
And, folded snugly away behind it is the equally offbeat Sharrow Vale.
Broomhill A five-minute walk from Ranmoor & Endcliffe, Broomhill is an all-time favourite for students with its bars, shops, cafes and restaurants like Proove, said to have some of the best pizza in the city.
Peak District National Park Sheffield overlaps the UK’s oldest national park, with a third of the city sitting inside the Peak District.
A short bus ride and you’ll be surrounded by mountains, valleys and ancient villages.
View our maps
University faculty buildings
Uni buildings are only a short walk from Ranmoor & Endcliffe, you can get to The Wave, Medical School and Management School in just 15 minutes.
By foot You can walk to campus in around 25 minutes, and the city centre in about 35.
Walking is also the best way to find and explore local parks and areas like Ecclesall Road, which is only 5 minutes away.
By bike Secure cycle storage is available across the site and dedicated cycle paths and routes criss-cross the city, so commuting and exploring on two wheels is a pleasure.
By bus and tram Buses to and from the city centre are roughly every ten minutes, with easy connections to trams and the railway network.
Half an hour and you’ll be out in the Peaks.
Single bus tickets for students are just £1.50.
By train The closest station to your accommodation is in the city, which will connect you to anywhere in the region and beyond – meaning you’re only around two hours from London, for example.
By car Parking permits are available for the Ranmoor & Endcliffe residences, these can be purchased once you've moved in.
Room types
Your community

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/city:
Living here puts you minutes away from the campus, and right in the beating heart of our beautiful northern city.
Nearly 2,000 students from the UK and 150 countries enjoy Sheffield’s warm welcome and unique personality.
City accommodation is interwoven with the campus and the city itself.
Full of character and surprises, Sheffield is an open, progressive place that welcomes everyone – no matter where they’re from.
So expect to find cultures, cuisines, art and music from all over the world blended with the more homegrown variety.
And for the times you need to stay ultra-local, our accommodation has its own facilities too.
The UK’s best Students' Union Voted the best Students' Union in the country by students for the last five years running, the SU is the centre of Uni’s social life – with events, gigs, and a huge variety of shops and cafes.
Five minutes walk from all city accommodation sites, the SU is also where you’ll find your student representatives.
Extremely well-located, large en-suite rooms and a massive gym for residents.
Very nice and helpful desk staff."
4/5 student review on Allen Court
member11122542 on StudentCrowd
Really nice, lovely area, the flat feels very comfy and homey.
I’m so lucky to have had lovely flatmates too - couldn’t fault the place."
4.5/5 student review on St Vincent's Place
Member9109657 on StudentCrowd
Unique and beautiful building in a lovely grassy area...
Great Residence Life mentors and activities scheme ...kitchens are modern and well-designed...Stunning..."
4/5 student review on St George's Flats
Member1088893 on Student Crowd
Rent and living costs
Your rent includes utility bills, contents insurance and internet access, as well as Residence Life events and sports activities throughout the year.
You'll also get £52 of credit for the launderettes at your accommodation.
All contracts are self-catered and either 42 or 51 weeks in length, with the majority of 51-week contracts reserved for Postgraduate students.
The prices below are for the 2025/26 academic year.
Self-catered
Room Type
Contract length
Rent
Allen Court
En-suite+
42 weeks
£8,155.56
Deluxe+
St.
George's Flats
En-suite
£7,408.80
Vincent's Place
42 Weeks
Contract Length
£7,879.20
£8,770.02
St Vincent's Place
51 weeks
£10,649.31
Mappin
Shared Bathroom
£7,864.71
View the 360-degree virtual tours of our City residences
City Accommodation
Allen Court is one of our most popular city residences, and it's easy to see why!
With modern en-suite + and deluxe + bedrooms, great facilities, and it's perfect location close to the central faculty buildings and the Students' Union, it's a great option for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The Common Room is open 24 hours a day, and there’s a separate games room and movie room for residents to use.
There’s also a gym on-site, open from early until late.
And of course, our friendly customer services team is available if you need anything.
Take a flying tour through Allen Court with our drone flythrough!
I have really enjoyed my time in Allen Court, have never faced any major issues, and would recommend it to any new University of Sheffield student!
I think it is good value for money as well
Adam, 2023/24
Only a short walk from Kelham Island and Sheffield city centre, St Vincent's has comfortable en-suite rooms and a range of study spots, music and cinema rooms, all located in the converted church that is the St Vincent's Common Room – making it a beautiful space to hang out or study.
St Vincent's Communal Kitchen is the place to cook with your friends, and make new ones!
Take a flying tour of St Vincent's Place with our drone flythrough!
Living in the university accommodation allows me meeting and be friends with other people from different part of the world.
Amber, 2023/24
Mappin Court is our shared bathroom Postgraduate accommodation in the City, this residence has a great community feel and is ideally located for those who want to be close to central faculty buildings.
Check out our City accommodation map
Students make up about 10% of Sheffield’s population, so as you can imagine local businesses are ready to welcome you – and cater for most budgets.
In fact, the city is often voted one of the UK’s most affordable for students.
Kelham Island
Home to the popular Peddler open-air food market, Cutlery Works food hall and arcade/bar/church Temple of Fun, Kelham is one of the coolest neighbourhoods in the world (according to Time Out).
The thousands who turn up every week seem to agree.
Weston Park Found close to the Arts Tower and Firth Court, Weston Park is home to beautiful historic buildings, sculptures, an eclectic museum and a duck pond: the quintessential English park.
Devonshire Green Take a blanket and sit out on a warm day, watch all Sheffield life come together in this city-centre green space, and then head down Division Street for an alternative corner of the city.
Crookes Valley Park About a five-minute walk from the SU is the beautiful Crookes Valley Park.
When the sun’s out, this place is full of BBQs, sunbathers and music.
Travel and the City
Though it’s big, Sheffield is pretty easy to get around.
You can walk across the city centre, from the train station to our campus, in about 20 minutes.
If you fancy going a little further afield you can make use of our fantastic transport links to other major cities, and of course, it’s just a short journey to the wilds of the Peak District National Park.
City accommodation is a great option if you want to be close to your lectures, The Diamond is 5 minutes from Allen Court and 9 minutes from St Vincent's.
By foot Sheffield is a walkable city, and living in the centre puts you a short walk from all university facilities and departments… so, in theory, you should never be late for a lecture.
By bus and tram Single bus tickets for students are just £1.50, and the Supertram network will take you pretty much wherever you want to go in the city, and in Rotherham too.
By train Sheffield central train station connects you to anywhere in the region and beyond – meaning you’re only around two hours from London, for example.
By car Like most big cities, it's easier to travel around Sheffield on two wheels or by public transport, rather than by car.
Ranmoor & Endcliffe
FAQs

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/families:
Information about the University of Sheffield accommodation suitable for families and couples.
We offer a range of 1, 2 and 3 bed properties, all within easy reach of the main university buildings and in close proximity to local amenities.
There is a strong community of families and couples living in our Ranmoor & Endcliffe  residences.
Through Residence Life you can get to know other families and couples across the University with their dedicated events.
The Sheffield City Council website offers useful advice and information about local primary or secondary schools.
The Accommodation Office will give you every possible assistance to find suitable accommodation, but as demand for this type of accommodation is sometimes greater than the number of properties available, the University cannot guarantee that suitable housing will always be found.
In the event that you are unsuccessful in your application, we are able to signpost and provide advice regarding private-sector accommodation.
Shore Court 2 bedroom flat
Apply for University accommodation
Visit Smart Move Sheffield
Houses and flats

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/lgbt:
We believe that everyone deserves to feel secure and respected in their own homes.
That includes having the choice of LGBT+ accommodation.
We aim to ensure that all University accommodation is a safe, welcoming and inclusive place for everyone.
Some students find it helpful to be living in accommodation specifically for LGBT+ students along with people who may have shared life experiences.
We offer students the option of selecting LGBT+ accommodation when applying to live with us.
my flat was very well matched, having lgbt only accommodation is revolutionary
Student living in LGBT+ accommodation
Anonymous feedback from student survey - autumn 2022
No, it is intended that this accommodation is exclusively for those who identify as LGBT+.
This offers residents a place of peer support where they can use their shared experiences to help harbour an inclusive and positive space.
In a similar way to the SU’s LGBT+ lounge, it is intended to be a space for all LGBT+ students.
The University of Sheffield Students’ Union’s definition of LGBT+ includes, but is not limited to, students who are Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Questioning, and Intersex.
As a collaborative project, the same definition is used in regards to the LGBT+ accommodation.
Our LGBT+ accommodation provision is open to people of all genders.
You can select the option regardless of your gender identity and can expect to live with other students of other gender identities.
If you wish to live in single gender accommodation then please select that option when applying rather than LGBT+.
Your student record is a legal record which will record your legal name and details, however you can populate the chosen name field on your accommodation account in order to ensure our Accommodation and Residence Life staff address you correctly.
Please also feel free to make all members of our teams aware of your pronouns when communicating with them.
For support regarding transitioning when at university please contact us through the Safeguarding and Welfare enquiry form , and consider contacting the SU LGBT+ committee which includes the Trans Welfare Officer.
For more information on LGBT+ accommodation please contact the Residence Life team residentsupport@sheffield.ac.uk or by phone 0114 222 9237 .
Sheffield Students' Union LGBT+ committee
Stonewall glossary of terms

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/explore-your-living-options:
From modern, purpose-built accommodation to refurbished period buildings full of character, homes at Sheffield Uni all meet the same high standard – and come with the chance to live the way you choose.
Creating a safe, welcoming, and inclusive community for everyone is our priority.
That is why we are proud to offer dedicated accommodation for LGBT+ students , those who want a quieter place to live, and single-sex flats, too.
We also have dedicated accommodation for Postgraduate students.
Join students drawing on their shared experiences to help foster supportive spaces for people of all identities.
Simply click these options when you select your preferred home, or list it as one of your preferences.
Questions about alternative accommodation?
residentsupport@sheffield.ac.uk 0114 222 9237
There are options to suit most budgets and lifestyles, and specially adapted rooms for if you have a physical disability or medical condition.
In all of our accommodation your rent will cover the cost of utility bills (gas, water, electric), and contents insurance up to £5,000, or £7,500 for families.
You can set up a payment plan, so your rent only comes out of your bank account once your student loan has been paid in.
And that’s it!
Take a look, and find a home today
View our 360 degree virtual tours
Cheaper than en-suite rooms, a standard room is your own, cosy private space that also puts you right in the mix with your fellow students – sharing a kitchen, bathroom facilities and the adventure of living together.
There are 577 standard bedrooms in houses and flats across Ranmoor & Endcliffe .
Brilliant value for money, the services provided are excellent quality and attentive to needs.
Current resident on Endcliffe Vale Flats
member5126236 on StudentCrowd
En-suite rooms are a popular choice for students, you'll get your own bathroom attached to your bedroom.
Just like with a standard room, you’ll share a kitchen and living area with your flatmates.
There are 3347 en-suite bedrooms in flats across Ranmoor & Endcliffe
Great facilities, location and social spaces.
A nice sense of community.
Staff are friendly and reliable.
Current resident on Curbar Apartments in Endcliffe
Member11123701 on StudentCrowd
Deluxe rooms typically offer more floor space and/or a bigger bed, and are available in en-suite or shared bathroom properties.
As with other properties, you'll share the kitchen and living space with your flatmates.
There are 80 deluxe en-suite and 62 deluxe shared bathroom rooms across Ranmoor & Endcliffe
Ensuite
Shared bathroom
Great for couples or if you just want loads of space, Studios come in two types.
There are 100 studios in Ranmoor & Endcliffe
Studios at Laddow Completely self-­contained with their own kitchen facilities, living area, double bed, two desks and two wardrobes.
There’s a large en-­suite shower room and toilet.
Studios at Wimberry, Windgather and Kinder These include everything except a washing machine, and have limited cooking facilities, so if you want to use the oven you’ll need to use the communal areas.
Family homes include 1, 2 and 3 bed properties, all within easy reach of the main University buildings.
These homes come with gas central heating and most have wifi included.
Because of high demand, we can’t guarantee accommodation for you and your family.
However, we will do our best to help you find somewhere to live.
These properties are ideally located and are a cheaper option whilst living centrally in Sheffield.
You'll share bathrooms, kitchen and living areas, and have your own bedroom.
We have 38 shared bathroom rooms across City residences
City centre living at its finest, we've got a great range of en-suite rooms in the City.
En-suite + rooms are only available at Allen Court and have a larger bed.
We have 1,415 en-suite or en-suite + rooms in our City accommodation
Very nice and helpful desk staff.
Current resident on Allen Court
Member11122542 on StudentCrowd
Specific to Allen Court, these rooms have a double bed for extra comfort and an en-suite bathroom.
We have 133 deluxe + rooms in the City residences
360 Degree Virtual Tours
Drone flythrough videos

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/360-degree-virtual-tours:
Take a look around our accommodation with our new virtual tour videos.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/policies:
Policies and procedures for University accommodation which is owned and managed by the University of Sheffield.
Accommodation Fees Guide 2024-25
Disabled Student Guidelines for University accommodation 2024-25
Easy Breezy Returners 2024-25 T&C's
Residence Contract 2024-25
Residence Contract 2024-25 - USIC
Accommodation Guarantee 2025-26
Accommodation Fees Guide 2025-26
Residence Contract 2025-26
Residence Contract 2025-26 - USIC
Returners Terms & Conditions 2025-26
Accommodation code of practice
Letting policy
Free Laundry Terms & Conditions
Our customer charter
Outstanding fees policy
Residential complaints procedure
Maintenance response time policy
Room booking policy
Under 18s policy
Smoke-free policy
Responsible drinking policy

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/smart-move:
Here to support you find safe and secure private sector housing.
Lots of students think it’s necessary to start looking for housing for next year as soon as possible – it’s not!
Sheffield has plenty of good quality student accommodation available throughout the year.
There is a huge supply of student accommodation in Sheffield.
Good quality properties are available throughout the year, so there's no need to rush into deciding who to live with or signing contracts for next year.
Wait until you feel ready and it is safer to do so.
For all you need to know about finding your next home take a look at our Housing Guide , here you will be able to find information from where to start your search all the way to signing the contract.
Smart Move Sheffield looks after the University’s register of private properties.
All properties on the register are Snug accredited and therefore comply with Snug guidelines .
Smart Move Sheffield can also offer advice, guidance and support about house hunting.
When you’re ready to start looking, use the Smart Move Sheffield search engine online.
This allows you to search for properties by accommodation type, size, price, or even via a map.
You can also register and have email alerts sent to you each time a new property meeting your requirements is added.
New properties are added regularly and you can forward details to your friends!
Start your search with Smart Move
Smart Move are located on Level 3 Students’ Union Building next to Grill & Go.
Pop in and say hello!
They are open Monday - Friday 10am - 5pm, no appointments necessary.
Contact them at:
Phone - 0114 222 6058
Email - smartmove@sheffield.ac.uk
Their online chat platform is also available at www.smartmovesheffield.com
Return to University Accommodation

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/accessibility-support:
We will always do our best to support the individual needs of our residents.
We want to do everything we can to ensure that all students living with us are safe, comfortable and happy in their accommodation.
We work closely with the University’s Disability and Dyslexia Support Service (DDSS) to meet disabled students' specific accommodation requirements.
If you are a disabled student you can contact the DDSS by email to discuss support for your studies at disability.info@sheffield.ac.uk .
When applying for University accommodation you will be asked during the application process if you require any disability related room adaptations.
At this point, we will contact you directly to discuss your requirements, and seek additional information if required.
We will then begin the process of finding accommodation that is suitable for you.
Read our full Disabled Student Guidelines for Accommodation here.
The accommodation you need due to your disability may be more expensive than standard student accommodation because of your condition or impairment.
If you will find it difficult to afford this difference in cost then you can contact DDSS - disability.info@sheffield.ac.uk to discuss whether you are eligible for a reduction in your higher cost rent.
If you have further questions about how the University of Sheffield accommodation team can support you in booking the accommodation that you need, please contact accommodationoffice@sheffield.ac.uk .
We know that each disabled individual will have different needs and require varied levels of support.
Your situation will be assessed individually, and we’ll work with you to ensure we provide you with what you need to be comfortable and safe in our accommodation.
The following are just some of the things we can offer that may help with different aspects of life.
We have a number of wheelchair accessible rooms available across both Ranmoor, Endcliffe & City, but we can also provide room adaptations to meet individual needs.
We encourage those that need a wheelchair accessible room to apply as early as possible.
Room adaptations include (but are not limited to) things such as providing medical fridges, shower stools or providing you with a deafgard .
Depending on your circumstances and the nature of your needs we may invite you for an appointment to discuss your adaptation requirements or view your room before move-in.
This can be in-person or virtually, and would happen so that we can ensure all your needs are met, and provide some insight and peace of mind for you.
﻿Personal Emergency Evacuation Plans ( PEEP s) are offered to students who require assistance during emergency evacuations.
This will identify any special arrangements or assistance required by an individual to ensure their safety in the event of an evacuation.
PEEP measures may include an alternative place of refuge, a vibrating pillow or a flashing alarm indicator.
Every case is assessed on an individual basis, and arrangements are made in line with requirements declared by students.
Students should indicate they require a PEEP when applying for accommodation or when completing the e-Induction prior to arrival.
Students will be contacted directly prior to moving in to discuss the PEEP.
Accommodation Services staff will then contact the student once they have moved in to assess the PEEP and make any amends that may be required.
If you/a student later require a PEEP due to a change in circumstances at any point please contact the Accommodation Office so a PEEP can be put in place.
When applying  you can set quieter accommodation as your preference.
Students living in quieter accommodation are expected to work with other residents to keep the noise levels low.
Quieter accommodation blocks are situated across our Ranmoor/ Endcliffe site.
Please note that we cannot guarantee our quieter accommodation will be completely free of any external noise or occasional disruption.
However our on-site security team are available 24/7.
You can also reach out to your Residence Life Mentor if you require any support to facilitate conversations with your flatmates regarding noise, or any other issues you may encounter.
Places in quieter accommodation are subject to availability.
If required, you may be offered the option to move into your accommodation at an alternative time.
This could be a day early, or later, depending on the block you’re moving into.
An alternative arrival time means that you can avoid the business typically associated with arrivals weekend, as the environment will be quieter and calmer, and you can take more time unloading vehicles, organising your space and settling in.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/frequently-asked-questions:
Finding the right student home is a big deal, so we’ve tried to cover everything you might need to know here.
If there’s anything we’ve missed, email accommodationoffice@sheffield.ac.uk
If we’re your firm choice, it’s March.
If we’re insurance choice, or you come through clearing, it’s August.
If you’ve accepted our offer, you’ll get an email from Accommodation about 72 hours later with instructions on setting up your MUSE account.
Then you’ll get an email from universityaccountsetup@sheffield.ac.uk containing your username and inviting you to activate your account, and begin the application process.
Please do bear in mind that if you are waiting to be released from another university back onto the UCAS system that this could mean a bit of delay that’s out of our control.
Yes – we guarantee University-owned and managed accommodation to all full-time students providing you apply by 31 August.
You are also guaranteed to live with only other University of Sheffield students.
Our accommodation guarantee .
Self-selection is the process where you can choose your own building, flat and room when you apply.
The self-selection process allows you to leave a personal bio about yourself, which other students can then see when they click in that particular flat.
Self-selection is helpful in finding like-minded individuals.
After this, we will ask you to let us know which accommodation you would prefer (this is what we call preferences), and we’ll look to allocate you to a room as close to your preferences as we can, subject to availability.
We don't release all rooms at the same time to enable those students who are still receiving offers from other institutions to have the same opportunities as those who received offers prior to the application process opening.
You may wish to consider one of the great options we have available in the portal now, or you can check back another time to see if we have released more rooms.
We will continue to release rooms throughout the booking process.
We are unable to provide a specific date that more options will become available as we release more as and when the current options are filled.
It’s important to remember that the availability of specific buildings and flats may change year on year and may not be available for this year.
For example, it may be held for undergraduate, postgraduate, exchange and visiting students etc.
If you book via self-selection, you usually can view select information about others who have booked the same property to give you a better idea about your future flatmates.
If you decide to share your information with us, you will be asked if you want to set up a personal profile.
The profile includes your screen name, your age, gender, and a brief profile about you – your interests, if you like to stay up late, or maybe prefer things quiet and clean.
It’s entirely up to you what you share in this section.
This part of the process is optional, and if you decide not to share your profile, the other applicants will see 'Occupied' against the room you choose.
Once self-selection closes, we’ll ask for your preferences.
Your preferences tell us information about which location/room type you prefer.
You only have to provide us with three different options.
We’ll then look to place you in a room based on the information you have provided.
We’ll always try to match you with your highest preferences in terms of room type, subject to availability.
If you apply via Preferences, we won’t look to place you into a room until the release of your results as there are a large number of changes within the system, which helps us provide you with the best possible option for you.
If you highlight on your application that you have a medical condition or special requirement, this will be looked at by a member of the accommodation team.
We have several adapted rooms, and we do everything we can to account for medical needs or special requirements.
Contact the Accommodation Office if you have any questions.
If you plan to have a television in your room, or watch live or catch-up TV online, you will need a TV licence .
No, the contents insurance protects all your gadgets, iPads, phones, laptops and PlayStations etc.
We recommend if you have a bicycle that you consider upgrading your insurance cover.
If you have any questions about what’s included in the cover, need to make a claim or you’d like to find out more about upgrading, visit Cover4Insurance .
All our kitchen living areas are equipped with a microwave, kettle, toaster, hoover, mop, iron and ironing board.
There's also a seating area for you to hang out with your flatmates.
Communal spaces outside of flats, such as common rooms, will be cleaned regularly and maintained by our on-site teams.
In Ranmoor, Endcliffe and St Vincent's cleaners check on kitchens bi-weekly.
At Allen Court kitchens are solely the residents responsibility to clean.
Yes, you can apply to stay in university accommodation throughout your studies.
Applications usually open in November, so you are welcome to come back to us for the following academic year and indeed throughout your studies at the University.
If you’re returning to University accommodation, you’ll be eligible for our returner offer.
You can choose the same flat as part of the self-selection process.
When we switch to preferences and allocation, we will try and help wherever possible subject to availability.
Sometimes it's best to live in close proximity rather than in the same flat as that way you form a wider friendship group.
The majority of our accommodation is mixed gender but we cannot guarantee mixed gender.
We do offer single-sex and dedicated LGBT+ accommodation and you can select that option as part of your application process and it is guaranteed.
As a collaborative project, the same definition is used in regards to the LGBT+ accommodation.
Your student record is a legal record which will record your legal name and details, however you can populate the chosen name field on your accommodation account in order to ensure our Accommodation and Residence Life staff address you correctly.
Please also feel free to make all members of our teams aware of your pronouns when communicating with them.
For support regarding transitioning when at university, contact us through the Safeguarding and Welfare enquiry form , or consider contacting the Students' Union LGBT+ committee which includes the Trans Welfare Officer.
This offers residents a place of peer support where they can use their shared experiences to help foster an inclusive and positive space.
All University accommodation is within a twenty-minute walk of campus or a 5-10 minute cycle and is served by regular public transport, which runs past the residences.
We advise students to look at all factors when choosing where they'd prefer to live, not just proximity to campus.
We always try to discourage students from bringing a car, unless it’s essential.
Parking is extremely limited at Ranmoor/Endcliffe and there is no parking available at the residences in the city except for pay and display.
Full details can be found on the EFM website who manage the parking permits.
Disabled parking is provided around the campus and the university residences.
All our accommodation comes with great cycle storage and we strongly recommend bringing a bike as a great way to get around.
Many of the students cycle to university and there are very good cycle lanes across the city.
No.
All our accommodation and sites have a mixture of international, home students, postgraduate, undergraduate and returning students.
We positively encourage students to mix and integrate to get the best from their time at university.
The maximum is 6 people per shower room/bathroom and we typically have around 4/5 people sharing.
As students have different shifts for their lectures, you will never all be getting ready at the same time, you will never need to queue.
All rooms vary in colour and get changed frequently, so we cannot share this information with you unfortunately.
We recommend that you just look forward to the surprise when you arrive and who needs everything to match anyway - it makes life more fun.
Certain blocks do have lifts installed and if this is important to you, you can email us for the specific details.
The majority of our accommodation is no higher than 5 storeys high and therefore do not have lifts.
We offer different contract lengths to suit the needs of our students timetables across the academic year.
Typically an undergraduate student contract is offered on a 42 week basis and a postgraduate student contract is offered on a 51 week basis.
You can leave your belongings in the room for the duration of the contract and do not have to move out your personal items over Easter or Christmas periods.
We know that washing isn’t the first thing on your mind, but at some point you are going to run out of clean clothes.
Our launderettes are located across the residences and are cashless – whether you're using Washpoint or Circuit.
Internet speeds will vary depending on how many devices are connected.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/visitors/maps-travel/accommodation:
Maps to help you navigate our accommodations, and information for visitors about staying on campus or visiting accommodation.
City accommodation map (PDF, 554KB)
Endcliffe and Ranmoor accommodation map (PDF, 901KB)
Central Sheffield Map (PDF 1.7MB)
You can find information about staying in Sheffield on our campus accommodation web pages and the Welcome to Sheffield website:
Visitor accommodation
Welcome to Sheffield
It is only possible to view accommodation as part of an open day.
You are welcome to visit the site to get a feel for the area outside of open days.
Information on how to travel to university accommodation by car can be found on our accommodation website .
For local public transport information, see out local public transport page .
Accommodation information for parents
Accommodation directions and travel

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/flatmates:
Start getting to know your flatmates before you arrive by joining our Facebook groups.
If you're moving into University accommodation from September 2025 onwards, visit the University of Sheffield Accommodation 2025/26 Facebook Group to ask us all your questions.
If you have already been allocated your accommodation, you can start meeting people right away by joining your Facebook Block Group using the lists below.
Residence Life

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/sustainability:
We have a range of initiatives in place across the residences as part of our commitment to creating an environmentally friendly and sustainable living place for our students.
The Community Fridge allows food that has reached its sell-by date but is still safe to consume would normally be thrown away to be rescued and offered completely free to staff, students and the community.
Through growth and developing new partnerships, the two Fridges receive more donations than ever, meaning more food is being diverted from waste streams and more people benefit from the resource.
The Community Fridge project launched in 2017 at the student residences, through a funding application.
There are around 800 community fridges in the UK and although they are all independent from each other, they share the same ethos.
We are proud to have two thriving Community Fridges on our sites!
In March 2023, the university staff were joined by a group of external volunteers, to collaborate on this amazing initiative.
Through growth and developing new partnerships, our project received a further grant in 2024 to improve facilities.
This has allowed us to provide an even better service to the students and local community.
In the spirit of giving and receiving, the Community Fridge also welcomes you to donate food, should you wish!
Please ensure any donations are sealed, unused and within the use by/best before dates.
In January 2025, the project was recognised with the award of "Superstar Fridge" by the Community Food Network.
As a result of this incredible achievement, we were invited to help mentor other similar projects across the country.
Food is available for free and there is no need to provide proof of income.
Unlike a food bank, our service is not means tested and therefore open to anyone.
We welcome members of the public to join us during student term holidays, outside of academic semesters (Easter, summer and Christmas holidays).
Deliveries are made every evening between 21:00 to 22:00h.
The delivery schedule for the two sites are Monday to Friday at The Edge, Saturday and Sunday at The Ridge.
However, during student holiday times, deliveries are at The Ridge only.
Please note that delivery times may vary, especially during adverse weather.
The safety of our teams is paramount and therefore, deliveries are not always possible during this time.
Wherever possible, on-site staff will place a notice on the fridge to provide an update.
Both Community Fridges are located within the university campuses.
On site parking is available, within close proximity.
We politely request that all users adhere to our house rules, to ensure safety and respect for all.
The site addresses are:
The Edge, 34 Endcliffe Crescent, Sheffield S10 3ED
The Ridge, 4 Woodhead Way, S10 3AQ
If you would like to be part of the Community Fridge initiative, have ideas or suggestions, offer feedback, or like more information, please get in touch by email to Andy Woffindin a.woffindin@sheffield.ac.uk .
*figures are based on averages, collections vary each day.
The Free Shop is held every year during Intro Weekend in September and in February for Semester 2 arrivals, and forms part of our Donate, Don’t Waste initiative.
Previous residents can donate some of their unwanted kitchen and homeware items at the end of their tenancy, which are then cleaned and stored ready to be given away at the Free Shop.
Donate, Don't Waste is a scheme run by the University of Sheffield, Sheffield Hallam University, Sheffield City Council, and charity partners to help make it as easy as possible for students to donate reusable items and dispose of waste responsibly.
As students prepare to move out of University accommodation, they are encouraged to donate any items that they don’t want to take with them.
British Heart Foundation donation points are located across the residences for items such as shoes, clothes, bric-a-brac, etc.
Kitchen and homeware items, including pots, pans, and crockery, are collected to be given away at the Free Shop for new student arrivals in September and February.
Since starting in 2013, the Donate, Don’t Waste scheme has helped students in Sheffield divert 66,000 bags of useable items from landfills by donating them to the British Heart Foundation.
This is equivalent to:
The Hard to Recycle Hub was introduced to Endcliffe in 2023 to provide options to donate items that can’t go into normal recycling streams.
The scheme collects items for:
Green Impact is a national programme to encourage sustainable initiatives within the work place, the Accommodation and Commercial Services team has taken part for many years, with a focus on introducing and promoting environmental schemes within the student residences.
2022/23 - Gold Award
2021/22 - Silver Award
2020/21 - Bronze Award
Sustainability in Accommodation & Commercial Services

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/open-days:
There’s nothing like experiencing our University community for yourself, and hearing all about it from the students themselves.
Once you’ve explored the campus and seen your future department, hop on the bus or make the pleasant 15-minute journey on foot up to Ranmoor & Endcliffe.
The communities will be open for you to wander around at your own pace.
Sit by the pond, get a drink at the Edge Bar, and check out the facilities like the Edge Hub, Ridge Common Room, and Fitness Suite.
At Endcliffe our Student Ambassadors will be happy to give you a tour of apartments with shared bathrooms, and en-suite bedrooms.
Take a look at our walking tour from the Ranmoor & Endcliffe residences down to the Students' Union.
If you don't fancy getting the bus you can walk to and from the residences, we've included a few options to help you with directions below.
If you want to walk up to the Endcliffe residences from the Students' Union:
Google Maps - Students' Union to The Edge
If you got the bus up to Endcliffe but want to walk back to the Students' Union:
Google Maps - Oakholme Road to Students' Union
The Edge, Endcliffe - ///whites.button.ranges
Oakholme Road, Endcliffe (bus collection point) - ///notes.pine.burn
Students' Union - ///scan.decreased.expose
The Ridge, Ranmoor, Sheffield S10 3AU
Oakholme Road, Sheffield S10 3DF
Sheffield Students' Union Sheffield S10 2TG
Save the date See the Open Days we’ve got coming up:
Visit Sheffield
So much to see, so much to think about… and so easy to forget everything you wanted to ask.
It’s ok though, because you’ll find our Accommodation team running a stand centrally at the Octagon, and another in The Edge up at Endcliffe alongside our colleagues from Residence Life.
All stands will have maps and other bits of information for you to take away with you.
Plus, we’ll be giving three 20-minute talks in Firth Court, telling you all about living in university accommodation, and everything Residence Life has to offer.
Can't make it?
Take a virtual 360 tour of our most popular rooms online:
View 360-degree tours

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/study-abroad-exchange-students:
Live in University accommodation and enjoy the largest student community experience in Sheffield - guaranteed to live with other University of Sheffield students.
Students taking part in our Study Abroad and Exchange programmes can take advantage of University accommodation at both our Ranmoor/Endcliffe and City locations.
We put on a whole host of free activities including International food events and movie nights to give you the chance to meet new friends and relax after a hard day's study.
Apply for accommodation
Important dates
City
En-suite £2,293.20
En-suite + £2,524.34
Deluxe + £2,714.53
En-suite £2,541.63
En-suite £3,502.80
En-suite + £3,855.86
Deluxe + £4,146.37
En-suite £3,882.27
En-suite £3,906.00
En-suite + £4,299.70
Deluxe + £4,623.65
En-suite £4,329.15
*December leavers are those students who are nominated for a December finish by their home University only
Prices correct as of April 2025 - The final value to be charged will be provided during the booking process along with the payment schedule.
Want to see more of our accommodation?
Take a look at our 360-degree tours
What is included in the rent?
Wondering what to expect?
You will be in a private en-suite bedroom with a small double bed, wardrobe, desk, chair and its own shower room including shower, washbasin and water closet.
You will share a kitchen/living/dining room with the other students in your flat.
The communal kitchen is well equipped with an electric oven, microwave, fridge-freezer, kettle, toaster, dining table and chairs.
Living room areas are furnished with comfortable seating and a coffee table.
Also available are a vacuum, cleaner, iron, ironing board, mop bucket, dustpan and brush.
We do not provide cutlery, crockery or cooking utensils (such as pots, pans, plates or glasses), or bedding items.
International Orientation
We offer separate packages of accommodation for those taking part in International Orientation.
Full information on the International Orientation events, including the accommodation arrangements can be found on the Orientation web pages when this information is available.
Need to arrive earlier or want to stay in Sheffield longer?
Why not stay in one of our two on-site hotels?
Halifax Hall
You can enjoy the luxury of a hotel stay at Halifax Hall, situated in a Victorian manor house close to the Ranmoor/Endcliffe accommodation.
Jonas
Stay anywhere between a night and six months in our modern hybrid hotel, which offers large communal kitchens, open plan social space and two soundproofed rooms for working or studying.
Study Abroad and Exchange students who require accommodation for one semester only are not guaranteed accommodation.
A limited number of study bedrooms are available for students who require accommodation for one semester stays; we would encourage all students to apply for accommodation as early as possible and no later than:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/contact:
How to get in touch with the teams across Accommodation Services
For anything relating to the accommodation or applications
As the central point of contact for a wide range of facilities and services in the residences, we are here to answer your queries and provide assistance when you need it.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/parents-and-guardians:
Don’t worry, they’ll be fine.
And we’re here for you, too.
All our accommodation has 24/7 security services, CCTV and regular patrols.
And perhaps more importantly, we put the work into making this a safe, welcoming community.
That means mentors and wellbeing support for individuals, events to bring people together, and a team whose job it is to make sure everyone understands what is and isn’t acceptable behaviour.
If you'd like to hear from us about updates within the residences, offers and promotions, and other helpful information then fill out the form below and we'll be in touch throughout the year.
Sign up to our parents & guardians newsletters
If you have any questions about accommodation, we’re happy to talk:
For anything relating to accommodation or applications.
+44 114 222 4488 accommodationoffice@sheffield.ac.uk
Ranmoor & Endcliffe and City For any general inquiries or questions about our facilities and services.
+44 114 222 4488 acs-customerservices@sheffield.ac.uk
Allen Court +44 114 275 5036 allencourt@iqstudentaccommodation.com
St Vincent's +44 117 302 7160 stvincentsplace@team.unitestudents.com
You are welcome to come and visit any location, take a walk around and get a feel for the place.
And if you want to view accommodation, come along to one of our open days, or take a 360 virtual tour on explore living options page.
Download a map of City Accommodation
Download a map of Ranmoor & Endcliffe
When you come to visit a student, you can book a place in Halifax Hall or Jonas Hotel – both conveniently located on the edge of Ranmoor & Endcliffe, a short walk from the University campus.
Halifax Hall Hotel
Jonas Hotel

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/travel:
View our accommodation campus maps
Approach Sheffield on the M1 and leave the motorway at junction 33, following the city centre signs along the dual carriageway A630/A57/A61 Parkway.
Shortly after entering the 40mph zone, turn right onto the Ring Road at junction 1 - Cutler's Gate.
Continue along the Ring Road following signs for "University of Sheffield", "Barnsley A61" and later "Glossop A57", through junctions 10, 9, 8 and 7.
At junction 7 - Shalesmoor - turn left and continue uphill along the Ring Road, still following signs for "University of Sheffield" and "Glossop A57".
Continue along Netherthorpe Road to the next roundabout - junction 6 - University Square.
Take the third exit onto Western Bank.
Carry on along Western Bank.
This leads onto Whitham Road, which then leads to Fulwood Road.
From Fulwood Road, turn left into Ashdell Road, then take the first right into Oakholme Road for key collection at Crewe.
On Fulwood Road, continue past the first sign to "The Endcliffe Village" (onto Ashdell Road) and turn left into Endcliffe Crescent for key collection at The Edge.
Carry along Fulwood Road then turn right into Winnats Way for key collection at The Ridge.
Leave the M1 at junction 36 - signed "Sheffield (North) A61".
At the roundabout take the third exit and follow signs for "Sheffield (North) A61" and later "City Centre A61" for 9 miles, passing through Grenoside and Hillsborough.
At the Ring Road roundabout - junction 7 Shalesmoor - turn right onto the Ring Road following signs for "University of Sheffield" and "Glossop A57".
Continue uphill along Netherthorpe Road to the next roundabout - junction 6 University Square.
On Fulwood Road, continue past the first sign to "The Endcliffe Village" (onto Ashdell Road) and turn left into Endcliffe Crescent for key collection at the Edge.
On Fulwood Road, continue past the first sign to "The Endcliffe Village" (onto Ashdell Road) and turn left into Endcliffe Crescent.
Leave the M60 (east) at junction 24 - signed "Sheffield".
Continue following the "Sheffield" signs along the M67 and the A628 Woodhead Pass.
At the Flouch Roundabout, turn right (third exit) onto the A616 and follow signs for "M1" and "Sheffield A616" for 10 miles.
At the roundabout, turn right (fourth exit) onto the A61 and follow signs for "Sheffield (North) A61" and later "City Centre A61" for 7 miles, passing through Grenoside and Hillsborough.
From Fulwood Road, turn left into Ashdell Road, then take the first right into Oakholme Road for key collection at Crewe.
On Fulwood Road, continue past the first sign to "The Endcliffe Village" (onto Ashdell Road) and turn left into Endcliffe Crescent for key collection at the Edge.
Carry along Fulwood Road then turn right into Winnats Way for key collection at the Ridge.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/clearing:
We know that you are excited and also maybe a little nervous to get your results this year, but don’t worry as we have everything covered if you choose to accept a course at the University of Sheffield and come to live in University accommodation.
Guaranteed accommodation
If you accept an offer through Confirmation and Clearing by 3 September 2025, we'll guarantee you accommodation in University accommodation.
You must apply by 3 September 2025 to ensure that you get your place reserved.
How do I apply for accommodation?
When you receive your offer from the University of Sheffield and accept this offer in your UCAS Hub, our Admissions Team will contact you by email confirming your place.
They will also invite you to apply for accommodation.
If you join the University through adjustments or insurance...
You need to accept any change in your offer in your UCAS Hub, there’s a slight delay in the information regarding the status of applications being transferred from UCAS out to the University and then from our Admissions Department out to all of the other areas of of the University who require this information - This can be anywhere between 24 – 48 working hours depending on how many applications are currently being processed within the system.
You will then be able to apply for accommodation.
If you join the University through clearing...
Within 48 hours of issuing your offer, we'll send you an email from UniversityAccountSetup@sheffield.ac.uk containing your username and inviting you to activate your account by following the instructions in our account activation site .
You can find more about this here - please be aware that it can take up to 48 hours from the creation of your MUSE account before you will be able to access the accommodation portal.
Whichever channel you join the University through, use the button below to apply for accommodation.
Click here to apply for your accommodation
The accommodation portal will reopen at 12pm (noon) on results day.
Once you've accepted your offer to study, you'll normally recieve an email from 'UniversityAccountSetup@sheffield.ac.uk' within 48 hours.
This will include your username and a link to activate your University account.
Once your account is set up, you'll be able to access your MUSE account, which is where you can begin your accommodation application.
For more information on setting up and activating your MUSE account, visit the University of Sheffield MUSE for offer holders page .
Yes - We guarantee University accommodation to all students covered by the Accommodation Guarantee providing that students apply by 3 September.
Once your application has been assessed by the Accommodation Team, you’ll get an email from the Accommodation Office with an accommodation offer.
Log in to the Accommodation Portal which will guide you through the process.
The Accommodation offer email will contain the information on accepting your offer.
A range of room types at Ranmoor & Endcliffe and City are available for students joining us through clearing.
Why not take a look around on our 360 virtual tours ?
To book your accommodation, firstly you’ll need to set up your MUSE account .
You’ll receive an email from ‘universityaccountsetup@sheffield.ac.uk’ which will invite you to create your account.
Once you have created your MUSE account, it can take up to 48 hours for your information to be passed over to the Accommodation Team.
The cascading of information as a part of Confirmation and Clearing is an automated process - unfortunately, the Accommodation Team are unable to expedite the process.
The only place to live
University accommodation is quite simply the only place to be during your first year as we have the largest student community in Sheffield with students from across the world.
Our Residence Life team will be on hand to support you throughout your time in the residences plus we have thousands of free events and activities across the year for you to get involved with.
Accommodation FAQs

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/usic:
St Vincent’s Place is our accommodation available for students who will be attending the University of Sheffield International College.
The accommodation is 2 minutes walk from your classes, and you’ll be living with other international students studying at the College.
St Vincent’s Place is located near the main University campus and next door to the International College.
The Common Room is a beautifully renovated Roman Catholic church, which contains many original features, with a modern twist - there’s a cinema room with comfy sofas, music rooms, social and study spaces, and a range of other communal facilities.
Students live together in flats with between four and nine flatmates.
Each student has their own bedroom with an en-suite bathroom and shares the communal kitchen and living area with their flatmates.
There is a Chinese oriental store and a Tesco Express near the accommodation, and you’re only a short walk from Sheffield City Centre which has a wide range of shops from stationery stores, clothes shops, food retailers and more!
You’ve even got our own Solly Street Kitchen just around the corner.
This stunning accommodation has a lot to offer - you have 24/7 Customer Services, a large bookable Communal Kitchen, spacious Cinema Room, and great study and social areas throughout the Common Room.
Take a look around using our virtual tour below!
Arriving
Arrivals weekend is 6-7 September 2025 which gives a great opportunity for you to settle into your accommodation and explore the City prior to starting your studies.
What’s included in the rent?
We pack as much into your rent price as possible, so you won't have to pay for any additional costs.
Here is a list of what is included as part of your rent:
You’ll also have access to Residence Life events and activities, including Residence Life Mentors who are there to support you during your stay with us.
Applications are open for you to book your room in St Vincent’s Place if you’re starting a course at the International College for the 2025/26 academic year.
To apply for accommodation contact our USIC accommodation team by email: usic.accommodation@sheffield.ac.uk .
The team will then provide you with up to date information on availability, rent, and how to apply.
The Accommodation team is here to help international students to arrange term time accommodation bookings, early arrivals and low deposits, which can be refunded if you do not reach your academic requirements.
We also have on-site Residence Life Mentors who offer support, advice and local inspiration to the international student community.
For more information please contact: usic.accommodation@sheffield.ac.uk
The award-winning Residence Life programme is available to all students in St Vincent's accommodation.
The programme offers you lots of opportunities to make new friends and improve your English language skills through our programme events and activities.
For example, you could learn to cook some exciting new recipes with a trained Chef, or you could learn to play a musical instrument.
We could help you get to know Sheffield by going on walks with Mentors and visiting interesting places in the area.
We've also got a range of health and fitness activities for you, as well as regular competitions for you to win prizes.
Our programme of activities is a unique offer in the city of Sheffield for students in St Vincent's.
We're looking forward to helping you settle into life in Sheffield and get the most from your time with us.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/accommodation/policies/accommodation-codes-practice:
All University-owned single student residences comply with the regulations set by the Universities (UUK) Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing.
This Code ensures that residents benefit from clear policies and procedures relating to the following:
Further information about the Code can be found by visiting www.universitiesuk.ac.uk/acop/
Our Partners offering single accommodation are subject to the ANUK Code which is a similar code for large landlords.
Further information about this code can be found by visiting:
www.nationalcode.org/
UUK have some useful information on the Codes of Practice and how they work for you.
Find out more here
3347
80 en-suite
62 shared bathroom
N/A
All information regarding contact details, procedures for lost keys and fobs and emergency protocols are included in welcome packs upon arrival and available to view on the Student Hub.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/your-open-day-guide:
You can use this guide to plan your visit with us.
We’re regularly updating it with key information, so don’t forget to check back here for the latest details.
Our advice for getting here, what to do when you arrive and how to make the most of your day with us.
Open day essentials
These are the only fixed part of the day, which you choose when making your open day booking.
Open day subject talks: September 2025
Take our free accommodation shuttle bus to visit our award-winning accommodation.
These 20-minute presentations run throughout the day, and are an opportunity to learn more about life at the university.
University talks: schedule
Take a student-led tour of our campus, city, sports and health facilities, Students’ Union,  libraries and more.
Tours: schedule
Our information fair showcases everything you need to know about the support and services on offer at the university.
Information fair: schedule
If you meet our Access+ criteria we might be able to refund your travel to our open day.
You can ask about this at the Access Sheffield stand in our central exhibition.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/open-day-faqs:
Coming to an open day?
Find the answers to your questions here.
Full details of the activities available at our undergraduate open days are provided in our open day guide , but we’ve also put together these frequently asked questions (FAQs) to help you prepare and make the most of your day in Sheffield.
If you have any further questions or queries, get in touch by email .
Our team will also be available via live chat from this page 10am-2pm on the Monday-Friday before the event, and 8am-11am on the morning of the open day - look for the speech bubble in the bottom-right corner of this page.
These events are for prospective undergraduate students who are interested in starting their studies at Sheffield in September 2026 or beyond.
If you make an undergraduate application to study with us and receive an offer, we’ll also invite you to one of our offer holder days , which normally take place between February and April.
If you are a prospective postgraduate student, find information on our postgraduate events .
Yes, booking is essential for these events.
Due to the finite number of guests our rooms can safely accommodate for each subject talk, you need to book your attendance, to ensure that there will be space for you on the day.
Please use our online booking form where you will be prompted to book places at subject talks as part of your day.
If no places are available for your preferred subject talks, you can explore alternative opportunities to visit us .
When you book a place on one of our open days , you will receive an email confirmation with further useful information and a link to manage your booking.
If you do not receive this email after you have made this booking, please check your spam folder, and failing that, contact us .
Yes!
You can change or cancel your booking at any time via the link in your confirmation email (see above).
Please note that there may be limited availability to change subject talks as we get closer to the event.
Our booking form will allow you to book spaces for yourself and one additional guest at any of our subject talks, as capacity will be limited.
However, you are welcome to bring more than one guest to accompany you on the open day and take part in any of the central talks, tours, and exhibitions.
Dogs are welcome in the outdoor areas across campus on our open days, but are not allowed inside buildings unless they are an assistance dog .
If an assistance dog supports you, please provide details on the booking form .
If you require assistance on the day, our staff and student ambassadors are there to help.
Our Disability and Dyslexia Support Service can also offer further advice on the support that will be available during your studies at Sheffield.
Colleagues from DDSS will be available to answer your questions in our information fair.
Most of our open day activities begin at 10am, and finish at approximately 4pm.
For those arriving slightly earlier, our accommodation tours start at 9.30am, as does the quiet hour in our information fair.
We ask that you attend your subject talk(s) at the time that you have booked, but all other activities are flexible and how you plan your day is up to you.
The duration of subject talks varies depending on the talk and any other activities the department may be offering as part of the session.
The duration for each talk is given on the booking form .
Our booking form will allow you to book places at more than one subject talk.
You should plan to leave at least 20 minutes between talks to enable you to travel between venues.
We also recommend allowing sufficient time in your day to take part in our central talks, tours and exhibitions.
If you’re still deciding between subjects, you may also find it helpful to explore our subject exhibitions , which are running as part of the day.
Access our maps and travel information .
Sheffield and the University have excellent public transport links, and we encourage visitors to take advantage of these wherever possible.
The University has a tram stop, is a twenty-minute walk from Sheffield train station, and is well served by the local bus network.
Prospective students can get this discounted Supertram travel by presenting their University of Sheffield Open Day email confirmation to the conductor, and asking for a Zoom Beyond Single or return.
Car parking near campus is limited, and often reaches full capacity at our open days.
We therefore strongly recommend those driving to consider one of Sheffield’s several park and ride sites on the tram and train network, which link directly with the University’s dedicated tram stop.
From the M1, exit at Junction 33 for the Nunnery Square park-and-ride site, or Junction 34 for the Meadowhall Interchange park-and-ride site.
From either site, take the yellow route tram towards Middlewood.
If you're coming to Sheffield from the West (via the A628 or A61) then use the Middlewood park-and-ride site.
Take the yellow route tram towards Meadowhall.
If park and ride arrangements are not suitable for your circumstances, the most convenient car parks for access to campus are the Q-Park on Durham Road , the Q-Park on Rockingham Street , and the NCP at Solly Street .
Q-Park discount
We recommend using one of the 32 blue-badge parking spaces available in the Q-Park at Durham Road .
An additional 20 blue-badge parking spaces are available in the Q-Park at Rockingham Street .
Alternatively, blue badge bays at the following locations on campus provide good access to key locations used for the open day, but are subject to availability on the day:
If you or your guests have specific access requirements that you wish to raise with the open days team, you will be prompted to disclose these as part of the booking form .
Alternatively, contact us at myday@sheffield.ac.uk
All our venues have disabled access.
If you have any accessibility or additional support requirements to facilitate your full participation in the event, please detail these on the booking form .
If you require any assistance on the day, our staff and student ambassadors are there to help.
Sheffield Railway Station is situated approximately a mile and a half away from the University of Sheffield.
You may wish to join one of our walking tours between the train station and campus or catch either a tram or a bus.
Trams run directly from the station to the University every 12 minutes.
You need to catch the blue line heading towards Malin Bridge and get off at the University of Sheffield tram stop.
The journey time is approximately nine minutes.
The main University of Sheffield campus is easily accessible by public transport.
From the transport Interchange (opposite the station), a range of buses go to and from this area, including the 30, 120, 123, 51 and 52 and all pass by the University.
Alternatively, a taxi from the station will cost around £5.
The Access+ Travel Bursary is available to eligible students for undergraduate open days and offer holder days.
This bursary is available to support undergraduate applicants to the University of Sheffield.
You don’t need to register on arrival, as your attendance will be recorded upon entry to your pre-booked subject talks.
Our information fair is a great place to start no matter what time you arrive at the University.
You can pick up key information, get tips for planning your day, and speak to experts from our student service teams.
A number of catering outlets will be open across campus for the open day, including several outlets in our Students’ Union, and some at our Endcliffe accommodation site.
Further details are available in our open day guide .
All of our campus outlets are now cashless, but there are nearby cafes and convenience stores which may take cash.
Dedicated quiet spaces and prayer room facilities are available in several key buildings on the day of the event.
If you need help finding your way around, please feel free to ask our staff at the Information Hubs.
Our central campus is approximately one mile across, and so we recommend wearing comfortable footwear and suitable clothing including waterproofs in case of rain, as most visitors will be walking between different locations for talks, tours and other activities.
There are a number of hotels and B&Bs in Sheffield.
Visit the Welcome to Sheffield website for more information.
Visitors to our open days can take advantage of a range of hotel discounts including Halifax Hall Hotel , a University hotel conveniently situated within the Endcliffe campus.
Visit our open day discount webpages to view this and all the offers we have available and how you can redeem them.
For further information about visiting an open day as a school group, contact the open days team .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/subject-tasters/online:
If you'd like to attend a taster session virtually, this is the right session for you.
We are continually releasing new subject tasters.
Register your interest and we will notify you of new sessions as they become available.
Accounting and Finance
Automatic Control and Systems Engineering
Applied Social Science
Architecture
Bio-dental Science and Technology
Biomedical Engineering
Biosciences
Chemistry
Civil and Structural Engineering
Data Science
East Asian Studies
Economics
Education
English Language
Environmental Science
French
Geography (Physical)
Geography (Human)
German
Health Sciences
History
Law
Management
Materials Science and Engineering
Mathematics and Statistics
Music
Nursing and Midwifery
Orthoptics
Philosophy
Physics
Politics and International Relations
Politics, Philosophy and Economics
Portuguese
Russian
Sociological Studies
Spanish and Latin American Studies
Speech and Language Therapy
Urban Studies and Planning
What can I do with A Level Biology?
What can I do with A Level Maths?
What can I do with A Level Chemistry?
Other ways to visit
About our taster sessions
On-campus sessions

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/access-travel-bursary:
We are able to offer this financial support thanks to generous donations by our alumni.
This bursary is available to support students who meet the following criteria:
Or:
You can claim a contribution towards your travel costs, based on the straight-line distance (as the crow flies) from your home address to the university campus (postcode S10 2TN).
The university will determine this distance and your reimbursement at the following rates:
Distance between home postcode and the University (using latitude and longitude to calculate the straight-line distance)
If you would like to check your reimbursement amount before making travel plans, please contact us via accesstravelbursary@sheffield.ac.uk and include the postcode that you will be travelling from for your open day visit.
Tips for travel
Check out your open day guide for more details about travel and available discounts .
More Access+ Travel Bursary Terms & Conditions can be found here .
If you have any questions about your eligibility to claim this bursary please get in touch at accesstravelbursary@sheffield.ac.uk .
Access+ Travel Bursary claim form privacy notice
Find out more about Access+

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/fees-and-funding:
All you need to know about scholarships and tuition fees - plus online tools to help you work out your finances and look for additional funding sources.
Check out our money tools
Advice and guidance on living costs

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/fees-and-funding/scholarships:
We offer a range of scholarships for international students.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees:
The easiest way to find the tuition fee for your chosen course is to use our online tuition fee look-up tool.
Find your study level below and follow the link to the fee look-up tool.
We offer a range of scholarships to international students.
You can find out more on our scholarship pages .
You can find out the tuition fee for your chosen course by using our undergraduate fee look-up tool to select your Department Name and Fee Status.
Postgraduate taught
You can find out the tuition fee for your chosen course by using our postgraduate taught fee look-up tool to select your Department Name and Fee Status.
Postgraduate research
You can find out more about tuition fees for postgraduate research programmes on our Postgraduate Research Tuition Fee pages.
We offer a special fixed-fee guarantee for international students taking courses longer than one year.
International students will pay the same fixed annual tuition fee for each year of the same course.
The tuition fee you pay in your first year will be the same for each subsequent year as long as you remain on the same course.
If you change courses, your tuition fee may be different.
This means that you will know exactly how much you will pay each year before you start your studies, making it easier to plan and budget for your time in Sheffield.
The University of Sheffield charges different tuition fees depending on whether students are classed as Home or Overseas for fee purposes.
Find out more information about how we assess your fee status

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/fees-and-funding/eu-students:
If you're a student from the European Union, read on to find out specific fees and funding information.
Students with an EU domicile beginning a course from 2021 onwards will no longer be eligible for home fee status, undergraduate, postgraduate and further education financial support from Student Finance England.
However, you will now be eligible for our generous international scholarship package: International Scholarships
You may still be eligible for home fee status, funding and Student Finance support if you meet one of the following criteria:
For further guidance, please visit the UKCISA - Guide to who pays 'home' fees .
The UK's new and improved Student Route , which falls under the UK's new points-based immigration system, is open for applications.
Students from EU countries (including EEA and Switzerland) will need to successfully apply for a visa through the new system , ahead of arriving in the UK, if they are coming from 1 January 2021 onwards.
EU/EEA/Swiss students who are already in the UK before 1 January 2021 should apply for the EU Settlement Scheme .
For more information, please visit our Student Visas and Immigration web pages and our EU Students and Brexit pages.
The information detailed here is for EU students only .
If you are not from the European Union, please refer to our international tuition fees information.
Details of how we define 'overseas' and 'home' students for the purpose of charging tuition fees: Verification of an applicant's fee status

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/applying/undergraduate:
You can make an application to study an undergraduate degree programme at the University of Sheffield from anywhere in the world.
If you're applying for undergraduate study at Sheffield, you'll find the key information on this page.
It is important to apply as early as possible as demand for places on undergraduate degree programmes often exceeds the number of places available.
Further information can be found on our prospective undergraduates section.
All applications for undergraduate study in the UK, including the University of Sheffield, must be made through an organisation called Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
All applications must be made online through the UCAS website.
All undergraduate degree programmes at the University of Sheffield begin in September each year.
For detailed information on how to apply please visit the UCAS website .
High entrance requirements for undergraduate degree programmes at Sheffield reflect the quality of the University.
Accepted international qualifications
The University of Sheffield International College provides International Foundation Year programmes specifically for international students who want to progress to the University of Sheffield.
Students can choose to study an International Foundation Year in the following subjects:
Undergraduate applying essentials

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/applying/postgraduate-research:
The University of Sheffield is at the forefront of international research in a broad range of subject areas.
We have active links with leading global companies, which help provide research and career opportunities for our students.
The University offers a PhD with Integrated Masters.
This four-year programme combines a specific research programme with additional skills that give our graduates the advantage in an increasingly competitive world.
It is important to apply as early as possible as demand for places on postgraduate research degree programmes often exceeds the number of places available.
Applications for these degree programmes must be made using the University's online application system.
There is no application fee to apply for a postgraduate research degree programme including MPhil, PhD or PhD with Integrated Masters programmes.
Postgraduate research degree programmes can begin at different times throughout the academic year.
The start date has to be agreed with your PhD supervisor.
Find out more about how to apply for a research degree programme .
High entrance requirements for Postgraduate Research degree programmes at Sheffield reflect the quality of the University.
An MD is a higher research degree open to eligible medically qualified doctors, with a usual duration of two years minimum for full time study.
Please note, if you are a graduate in Medicine and wish to apply for an MD research degree, this can't be done online or by using the PG application form.
You must follow the instructions on the School of Medicine & Biomedical Sciences webpage.
MD Research Degrees - how to apply
Postgraduate Research applying essentials

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/representatives:
Our representatives have been carefully selected and are official University of Sheffield representatives.
They have been provided with information and guidance on our courses and entry requirements, as well as the wider University and city.
They can advise you throughout your application journey and can help you make an informed decision about studying with us.
As an institution, we are committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework and pledge to create and maintain the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the UK remains a leading study destination for international students.
If you are considering using the services of an agent, we encourage you to read the British Council’s student guide to choosing an education agent (PDF) .
Please note that you can only work with one representative on your application to Sheffield.
The University of Sheffield pays commission to agents if you enroll at our institution after using their services.
Your chances of being accepted for a course are not affected if you use the services of an agent.
Some agents charge students a counselling fee and we strongly recommend that you clarify all costs with your agent in advance.
You should also check whether an agent is authorised to represent the University of Sheffield.
Our agents sometimes work with other agents (often referred to as sub-agents).
We do not have contracts with sub-agents and cannot offer them the same level of assistance.
You should always pay any deposit or tuition fee payments for your course directly to the University, and never to or via an agent.
We expect the highest standards from our agents and we want to know if you are unhappy with your experience of working with them.
Please go to the what to expect from your agent webpage for more information and details on how to make a complaint if you believe the agent is not meeting the standards expected.
Find out more on what to expect from your agent
Can't see your country in the list?
Get in touch with us.
Study Abroad Global
Web: www.studyabroad-global.com
Inova Education
Web: www.inovaeducation.com
Studies Planet
Web: www.studiesplanet.com
AzeriStudent
Web: www.azeristudent.az
IDP Education
Web: www.idp.com/middleeast/
Web: www.idp.com/bangladesh/
Web: www.studies-overseas.com/
Web: macesbd.com/contact/
Web: www.studyin-uk.com.bd/
Web: https://win-ed.com.bd/
Study Experience
Web: www.studyexperience.fr/
Academic Action
Web: www.academic-action.com/
Email: naomisebape@gmail.com
gradeUP
Web: www.gradeup.com.br
HRD Services Global Education Link
Web: www.hrdseducation.com/
Our South East Asia Office
The University of Sheffield has an official office in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia , with members of staff who can offer advice and support on your application to study at Sheffield.
StudyIn UK (SI-UK)
Web: www.studyin-uk.ca/
Web: www.academic-action.com
Web: www.studyin-uk.co
Email: nkdconsultants@cytanet.com.cy
Photiades Education
Web: www.photiades.ac.cy/en/
Web: study-net.eu/
StudyIn UK (SI-UK) Cyprus
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/
Web: www.besaeg.com
Global Study UK
Web: www.globalstudyuk.com/offices/
Web: www.idp.com/egypt/
Web: www.studyin-uk.fr/
Web: idp.com/ghana/
Web: myinternationaloffice.co.uk/ghana/
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/ghana
Web: www.ces.com.gr
NETWORK Educational Group
Web: www.network.gr
Web: www.studyin-uk.gr
Web: idp.com
MSE Agency
Web: MSE.com
Web: idp.com/iran/
Web: www.elabedu.eu
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/italy
Web: https://www.tutoryou.eu/it_IT /
GESCO
Web: gescoedu.com/
Web: www.idp.com/kenya/
Website: www.studyin-uk.co.ke
Uniconnect
Web: www.uniconnectcentre.com
Web: www.uniserveducation.com
Future Graduates Ltd.
Web: www.futuregraduates.org.uk
Ulearn Kuwait
Web: ulearnabroad.com/
Web: www.idp.com/global
The University of Sheffield has an official office in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia , with advisors who can offer advice and support on your application to study at Sheffield.
Web: www.campusabroadmauritius.com
Email: maggie1dowlut@yahoo.co.uk or indira.edabroad@hotmail.com
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/morocco/
Web: safeneteducation.com/
WIN Education
Web: win-ed.co.uk/en/home/
Web: www.idp.com/nepal/
Web: www.motif.com.np
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/nepal/
Web: ahlameducation.com/
Web: www.idp.com/oman/
Web: https://www.academic-action.com
Web: www.idp.com/philippines/
Email: marketing-global@51liucheng.com
Web: www.studyin-uk.com.ph
Web: www.elab.edu.pl
Web: www.studyin-uk.pl
IEC (International Educational Consultants)
Web: iecformacion.com/pt-pt/
Web: https://ielts.idp.com/qatar
Web: www.studyin-uk.com
Web: www.iecc.co.uk/
Web: https://gostudyin.com/saudi-arabia/study-in-uk/
United Kingdom Education Centre (UKEC) Saudi Arabia
Web: www.uk-education-centre.com/ar/
Web: www.ukuni.org/
Web: global-education.co.za/
Web: www.ieabroad.com
Royal Universities (operating under Educamundi Hub SL)
Web: www.royaluniversities.org/
Web: iecformacion.com
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/spain/
Web: www.crossroadsedu.lk
Web: www.idp.com/srilanka
Web: www.studyin-uk.lk
Web: www.studyin-uk.co.tz
Web: sbb.co.tz
Web: www.studyin-uk.com/uganda
Web: www.idp.com/uae/
Web: www.unidirection.com
StudyIn UK (SI-UK) United Arab Emirates
Web: www.uk-education-centre.com
Web: www.university-choice.com
Web: www.uofferglobal.com/en
Web: unilinksports.com/
Web: www.globaleducation.co.za/
Events in your region

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/applying/foundation:
The University of Sheffield International College offers you the best pathway to a degree from the University of Sheffield – one of the UK's leading universities.
The University of Sheffield International College provides high quality and flexible International Foundation Year programmes that are specifically designed to prepare international students for admission to undergraduate degrees at the University of Sheffield.
Choose from one of the following routes:
Upon successful completion of your International Foundation Year programme, you can gain entry into a wide range of world-class undergraduate degree programmes at the University of Sheffield.
Find out more about the University of Sheffield International College .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/applying/ncuk-pathway-programmes:
NCUK offers foundation and graduate pathway programmes which include unique language and study skills preparation modules to equip you with the skills you need to succeed in your studies in the UK.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/after-you-apply:
Information on deadlines, decisions, fee status, scholarships, accommodation and more.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/offer-holder:
From now until the start of the 2025-26 academic year we'll be running regular Sheffield Live webinars and interactive sessions for our offer holders, so you can chat to staff and students and get all the information you need before you make your journey to Sheffield.
We’re looking forward to welcoming you to our University later this year.
Hear from Chaw Chaw about how she spends a typical day in her life as an international student at the University of Sheffield.
Sheffield Live
We take part in visits and events all over the world in order to give prospective students the opportunity to find out more about our university.
Find support and advice for settling in and adjusting to life in the UK, using this free online resource for new international students.
Register for the programme
Still have questions?
Talk to one of our Student Ambassadors, or get information specific to your country by speaking to our team.
The best students' union in the UK, a vibrant city and a network of support services to make sure you’re happy, healthy and secure.
Find out where your degree can take you and how we'll help you get there:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/registration/tuitionfees:
Information about tuition fees for those joining the University as a new student, including how much your fees will be and how to pay.
It’s important to know how to do this correctly, as well as the things you need to look out for.
How to pay your tuition fees and important reading
Not sure where to start with paying your fees?
Use our online tool to find out what you need to do.
Tuition fees information for Home Undergraduate students.
Undergraduate Home students
Tuition fees information for Overseas Undergraduate students.
Undergraduate Overseas students
Tuition fees information for Home Postgraduate students.
Postgraduate Taught Home students
Tuition fees information for Overseas Postgraduate Taught students.
Postgraduate Taught Overseas students
Tuition fees information for Postgraduate Research Home students.
Postgraduate Research Home students
Tuition fees information for Overseas Postgraduate Research students.
Postgraduate Research Overseas students
How to pay your ELTC tuition fee.
ELTC fees
Information for students expecting an external organisation to pay some or all of their fees.
Sponsored students
Check your fees status and what this means for your fees.
Home or overseas fee status
Failure to keep up with instalments may result in your student status being cancelled, and you will be asked to leave your course.
Outstanding Fees Policy
Have you forgotten how you're paying your fees?
When are your fees due?
Do you need an extension?
What about refunds?
These, and other common questions, may be answered here:
Questions about fees
For questions about fee payments, fees records, bursaries, scholarships, and financial support:
Contact the team

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/new-students/before:
Find everything you need to get prepared before you arrive at the University of Sheffield.
Everything you need to do before you start your undergraduate degree if you’re a home student.
Home undergraduate student checklist
Everything you need to do before you start your masters if you’re a home student.
Home postgraduate taught student checklist
Everything you need to do before you start your doctoral degree if you're a home student.
Home postgraduate researcher checklist
Everything you need to do before you start your undergraduate or masters degree if you’re a student paying overseas fees or with visa and immigration tasks.
International undergraduate and postgraduate taught checklist
Everything you need to do before you start your doctoral degree if you’re a student paying overseas fees or with visa and immigration tasks.
International postgraduate researcher checklist
You need to register before you join us here at Sheffield.
Start your online registration
Make sure you know how to pay your tuition fees.
Find out more about how university courses are structured and the types of academic support available.
Information about your course (student login required)
If you’re moving into University accommodation, check you have all the important information before you arrive.
Our student accommodation
What to bring
If you’re going to live in private accommodation, we offer support to help you navigate the private sector.
Find information about visas and immigration.
Student visas and immigratio n
Information and advice for new international students, from health and wellbeing to academic support.
Support for international students
How to get to Sheffield from various UK airports, and information about the meet and greet scheme from Manchester airport.
Travelling to Sheffield from the airport
Take a look at the International Student Success Programme.
International Student Success programme
Check whether you need to provide evidence of a tuberculosis (TB) test as part of your visa application.
Tuberculosis screenin g
Explore the events going on across campus to help you start making friends and settling into the city.
Orientation week
Start thinking about which Welcome Week events you would like to attend, and find out where to get tickets.
Welcome Week
Find out more about your Students’ Union, with more than 400 societies, clubs and interest groups to explore!
Discover your Students’ Union
Speak to our specialist and friendly team that supports disabled applicants and students.
Support for disabled and dyslexic students
If you’re going to be under 18 when you start your course, check our specific guidance.
Guidance for students under 18
Support is available if you're estranged from your parents or carers.
Support for estranged students
We can offer you dedicated advice, information and support if you're from a care background.
Students from care

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/new-students/international-student-success-programme:
Find support and advice for settling in and adjusting to life in the UK, using this free online resource.
Studying abroad can be both exciting and stressful.
To help you settle in and adjust to life in the UK, the International Student Success programme is a free online resource with practical guidance and support for all new international students.
The programme is developed by Epigeum (part of SAGE Publishing) in collaboration with the University of Sheffield and aims to equip you with the knowledge, skills, and understanding that are central to preparing for, and adjusting to, university life in the UK.
It provides support and guidance on overcoming key barriers to success in your journey toward becoming a global citizen.
The programme has four modules including:
The modules are packed full of practical tips, real student voices, and myth-busting exercises.
To ensure the most accurate alignment to your needs, this programme also includes information and advice specific to students studying at the University of Sheffield.
Look out for the ‘ Info@Sheffield ’ pod while you are going through the modules.
Here you will find lots of useful resources to help you familiarise yourself with the support available at the University.
For each module in the programme, there is an associated self-assessment test each containing eight questions.
The programme is available to all international students joining the University of Sheffield.
For information on how to sign up and access the programme, visit:
University of Sheffield external courses web page
If you experience any issues whilst using Blackboard, contact digital.learning@sheffield.ac.uk .
If you have any questions or comments for the programme, fill in this short Google form .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/contact/team:
If you cannot find the answer to your question from our website you can contact us below.
For general questions about studying at the University of Sheffield, fill in our prospective student enquiry form.
Submit your enquiry
If you are interesting in working with us please contact the regional contacts below:
Cecilia Biolchini- c.biolchini@sheffield.ac.uk
international@sheffield.ac.uk
Stephanie Wong - stephanie.wong@sheffield.ac.uk
seao@sheffield.ac.uk
In-country representatives

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/contact/international-recruitment-team:
If you want to get in touch with one of our International Recruitment managers or in-country associates to discuss studying and living in Sheffield, please book in a session with the relevant person using the links below.
Book a chat with Udochika
Book a chat with Kristina
Book a chat with Alison
Book a chat with Julia
Book a chat with Jesmine
Book a chat with Crissy in the Indonesia office Book a chat with Dalila
Book a chat with Shirley
Book a chat with Mamta
Book a chat with Anita
Book a chat with Jie
Book a chat with Kate

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/contact/udochika-ezeocha:
Global Engagement
Regional Representative for Sub-Saharan Africa

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/undergraduate-postgraduate-study/explore:
It’s not too late to apply for postgraduate study for 2025 entry.
Choose from online sessions and one-to-one meetings to find out more about your postgraduate study options.
Whether you’re thinking about your next step after you graduate or you’re considering returning to study, "our Explore studying a masters" event is a series of online talks and interactive sessions designed to help you discover the opportunities and benefits of postgraduate study, including our Alumni Discount.
If you’re ready to specialise further or want to study something new, these events are a chance to explore how a masters degree could shape your future.
14 to 16 July 2025
Book a 15 minute one-to-one meeting for personalised advice from our postgraduate team about your masters journey, including applying for and studying a masters and living in Sheffield.
We’ll also help signpost you to any specific questions about the course you’re interested in.
3pm to 4pm on Thursday 17 July 2025
Join our student panel-led discussion about the essentials of masters study.
From managing workloads to how to make the most of your time as a postgraduate student, our student panel will share their own experiences, offer practical advice and answer any questions you may have about postgraduate life and study.
This session is part of our Sheffield Live online events.
5pm to 6pm on Thursday 17 July 2025
Find out more about applying to study and managing your finances as a postgraduate student.
From everything you need to know about the application process to highlighting available funding opportunities, including our Alumni Discount.
As a Sheffield graduate, you could receive £2,500 off your postgraduate tuition fees to help you continue to study and develop your career, subject to eligibility criteria.
Find out more about our alumni discount
Postgraduate taught courses
Undergraduate to postgraduate study for Sheffield students and alumni

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/online-events/faqs:
Frequently asked questions about our online events at the University of Sheffield
You need to book to attend an online event.
Once you have booked, you will receive a joining link 30 minutes before the session and we’ll send you an email reminder to join the event.
Bookings for most of our online events remain open until the day of the event.
Once you have booked your place on an event, you will receive confirmation of your booking by email.
A week before the event is due to take place, we will send you a reminder about the event with guidance about how to download Zoom before the event starts.
You’ll receive another reminder 20 minutes before the session is due to start- this email will include the joining link for the session.
If you don't receive that email in time, check your spam/junk folder.
If you still have problems please contact us at study@sheffield.ac.uk or  send us a chat message .
Most events are one-hour long, but this can occasionally vary.
Please check the web page for your chosen event.
Most of our online sessions use the Zoom platform.
In order to join a live event, you may need to download the free app/software before you can join the session.
We recommend that you do this well in advance of the session start time to ensure you can join on time.
These events include a live question and answer session with the speaker/panellists.
Questions can be submitted through the Zoom as part of the event.
We don’t usually record our live online events, although we may do occasionally.
If your session is being recorded, you will be informed at the start of the session and will also let you know whether the recording will be shared after the session.
We will never record any Q&A sessions and we’ll never allow anybody else to record the session.
You can submit a written question using the Q&A button on your Zoom screen.
Live captions are available on Zoom.
If you are unable to hear the audio, hover over the mute button in your Zoom window and click on the small arrow next to it.
Select Audio Settings and ensure that the slider is at maximum for the speaker output.
If you are still having issues, you may like to try selecting the volume function button on the top line of your laptop or PC keypad.
If this doesn’t work please try plugging headphones into your PC or laptop.
If this does not resolve the problem, try leaving the Zoom session and entering it again using the link you received.
Live captioning is available for the majority of online events.
On most devices this is accessed via the ‘closed captions/live transcript’ button at the bottom of your screen.
However, if you are using a mobile, you will need to minimise the webinar using the “…” button, then tap the cog icon and scroll down to ‘closed captions’ and turn them off/on.
You can then restore the webinar.
We want our online events to be a positive experience for everybody in the session.
We take the following steps to ensure you have an enjoyable and safe experience.
You can do the following things to ensure that you and your details  remain protected during the session and to ensure that everybody in the session has a positive experience:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/visit/subject-tasters/campus:
Our on-campus subject tasters help students to experience what it's like to study at the University of Sheffield.
If you would like to visit us in person to get a flavour for what it’s like studying a particular subject at university, our on-campus subject tasters are right for you.
You'll visit campus and join a session in one of our learning and teaching spaces.
We continually release new taster sessions.
See which subjects take part by browsing our past on-campus sessions.
Our on-campus subject tasters provide students with a fantastic opportunity to come and visit the University of Sheffield and participate in a full day's subject specific activity delivered by current academic and students.
The project is open to applications from all Y12, Y13 and Level 3 students, and to mature students returning to education.
We welcome applications from any interested students.
It should be noted that as most of our courses have A Level entry requirements of no lower than BBB (or equivalent), we will be targeting students who have the potential to achieve these grades, or higher - based on predicted/expected grades.
Any pupil from any region of the UK is considered suitable based on their academic profile.
For each on-campus subject taster we require students to complete our application form.
The form requires you to add your school and year group, or note you are returning to education if you are not currently studying.
You will also be asked to let us know your chosen (or likely) subject choice at university and provide a statement of no more than 250 words about why you would like to attend.
We do not accept group bookings as each place is decided on merit and desire to attend (based on the 250-word statement).
The University of Sheffield will contact each student, usually three weeks before the event, to let them know if they have been successful in their application and then again with further details of the event (meeting point, itinerary, etc).
Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee places for all applicants as each pupil must meet the minimum academic criteria in order to be eligible to participate in the day.
In the event that there are more applications than there are available spaces, the taster day team will assess all application forms and make decisions on the most suitable candidates based on pre-determined scoring criteria.
We will not contact schools with details of any students who have been successful in gaining a place on the subject taster.
This would be the responsibility of the individual attending.
However, some schools may already be aware of the subject tasters if they have subscribed to receive promotional communications and e-newsletters from the University of Sheffield
Duration can vary depending on the department and the nature of the activity.
However, timings usually mirror a school day - with a slightly later start to allow pupils from further afield to get to Sheffield in good time.
A good example of an itinerary is below:
When your place is confirmed, we will ask you to confirm your attendance and to also provide further details, for example (mobile number, emergency contact details, dietary requirements etc).
If an event is cancelled we will contact students directly to let them know - either by email, or if an event is cancelled within 48 hours - contact will be by phone.
Some schools or departments may provide lunch, others may ask you to bring something with you, or purchase something whilst you are on campus.
Either way, you will be given all the appropriate details in your confirmation and follow up emails prior to the event.
Pupils can register for as many subject tasters as they like.
However, in order to be selected they must meet minimum academic criteria.
We would also expect that pupils would have a genuine interest in studying (or potentially studying) the subject at University.
For example, we would not prioritise applications from pupils applying to come on a chemistry taster day who wish to study medicine at university.
In this instance the stronger applications would be from those who state their subject choice at university to be chemistry, or a chemistry related subject.
We fully appreciate that not all students will know exactly what they want to study yet.
However, pupils should be able to demonstrate fully in the 250-word statement why they are interested in attending a specific on-campus subject taster.
This helps us understand why they want to attend.
We take bookings from individuals as opposed to school groups and we would expect that each application form is completed by the pupil and not their teacher.
It is often the case that there may be several pupils from the same school at the same on-campus subject taster, but each would have completed the application form separately.
If you are a teacher and think a group session would be beneficial for your students, please contact our Schools and Colleges Liaison team to explore our school group sessions.
Of course.
Please feel free to contact the team via email tasterdays@sheffield.ac.uk or by phone 0114 2222 9872.
We will contact you by email closer to the time, to let you know what you need to bring on the day for your particular session.
Maps and travel information
We recommend that visitors use the Q Park at Durham Road .
The Students' Union building is visible to your right as you exit the car park.
Explore details of other car parking options .
We recommend using one of the 32 blue-badge parking spaces available in the Q Park at Durham Road .
An additional 20 blue-badge parking spaces are available in the Q park at Rockingham Street .
Alternatively, you can park in any of the blue badge bays available on campus.
If you have any accessibility or additional support requirements to facilitate your full participation in the event, please detail these on the booking form.
Dedicated quiet spaces and prayer room facilities are available in several key buildings across campus.
If you require further information or directions on the day of the event, please ask a member of event staff.
It is advisable to catch either a tram or a bus to the campus.
Subject tasters

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/education/lifelong-learning/courses:
The requirements for entry are different from those for students wishing to enter directly onto a degree programme elsewhere in the University.
Lifelong learning entry requirements
Tips and advice on how to apply for a lifelong learning course .
Everything you need to know about the tuition fees, scholarships and bursaries available to you .
Our current and former students talk about their experiences of returning to education as a mature student, and how the school has helped them.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/qualifications-policies:
This page contains our policies on qualifications accepted for entry to undergraduate courses.
We welcome applications from students resitting their A Levels, and for most courses these will be considered equally alongside other applications.
For our most competitive courses, we may set a higher entry requirement than is standard, we may require a certain baseline of achievement at the first sitting, and/or we may ask that they do not apply until after they have met our standard entry requirement.
Alternatively, applicants may not be considered equally when compared with those who are not resitting.
In all cases, we may ask for further information about the reasons for resitting to inform our overall review of the application.
Each case is considered individually.
We normally recommend that applicants undertake a sufficient volume of study in one sitting, for example by completing three A Levels or equivalent over two years, to demonstrate that they will be able to successfully manage a high level and volume of study once at the University.
Applicants who have taken an A Level or equivalent qualification a year early will usually be given credit for this in any offer made.
However, as above, applicants are typically expected to complete the equivalent of three A Levels within two years.
If applicants start qualifications a year early but take three years to prepare for and complete their final exams they may be asked to achieve a higher entry requirement than is standard.
Each applicant in these circumstances is considered on a case-by-case basis and we may request further information to support our overall review of the application.
Taking GCSE or equivalent qualifications early does not normally affect how an application is reviewed, provided the general University and course-specific requirements have been met.
For entry to the University all applicants must demonstrate general preparation in English, demonstrated by grade 4/C in GCSE English or an accepted English language qualification .
Applicants should also usually be able to demonstrate a sufficient level of mathematics, for example through the achievement of grade 4/C in GCSE Mathematics.
Some courses have additional and/or higher GCSE requirements, either from a broader range of specific subjects, such as for Medicine and Dentistry, or from one particular subject.
For example, our courses in Business Management and in Economics require a minimum of grade 6/B in GCSE Mathematics.
Additional GCSE requirements are listed in course requirements in our prospectus and on UCAS Course Search .
The University of Sheffield is keeping a close eye on current qualification reform.
We are keen to ensure that every cohort of applicants is treated fairly so that potential students who have the ability to thrive at Sheffield are given the opportunity to do so.
This briefing outlines some key reforms and the stance which the University of Sheffield is taking towards them.
It is aimed at helping schools and students to make decisions about qualifications, and reassuring them of Sheffield's commitment to fair admissions at a time of considerable change and uncertainty.
Between September 2015 and 2017, AS and A Levels in England were 'decoupled' and reformed, and became separate, linear qualifications, examined at the end of the course.
Students entering university from 2017 onwards will have a mixture of old and reformed AS and A Levels, and 2019 entry students who have followed the standard pattern of education will present only reformed AS and A Levels.
Reformed AS Levels are designed to be taught alongside the first year of reformed A Levels so that schools can teach groups of students together regardless of whether the students intend to stop at AS Level or pursue the full A Level.
However, even if a student sits an AS Level and then decides to pursue the full A Level, material from the whole two years will be examined as part of the A Level.
AS marks cannot be carried forward and AS grades will not contribute to A Level grades.
The assessment of practical skills in reformed Physics, Chemistry and Biology A Levels will be separate from the written exams which lead to the final grade.
The A Level will be graded A* to E, and the practical element will get a separate pass or fail grade.
We understand that some schools and colleges will still wish to enter all students for AS Levels whereas others will carry out internal assessment at the end of Year 12 to inform students' progression to Year 13, grade predictions and university decisions.
The decision whether a student should sit an AS Level even if they intend to take the full A Level must rest with the school or college and the student, and the University of Sheffield will not discriminate for or against students according to which choice they make.
Our admissions decisions are based on a holistic assessment of the information in the UCAS application, with subject choice and predicted grades being among the most important measures in most cases, and we have every confidence that schools and colleges will continue to provide us with helpful indicators of students' potential regardless of whether externally-assessed exams have been taken or not.
Many non-A Level qualifications that applicants present are already linear so we are very used to making admissions decisions in the absence of validated grades half way through school-leaving exams.
Whilst we continue to make offers on the basis of three A Levels, we do welcome the evidence of breadth of study which is provided by a fourth subject at AS Level or an Extended Project Qualification and we are often able to make alternative offers to include these.
For students applying for Maths or Maths-based subjects, the addition to the standard A Level profile of Further Maths at AS or A Level is always welcome.
At present (2018 entry) there are no courses at Sheffield for which AS Level attainment is a key part of the admissions decision.
Practical skills are an important part of science education and we expect all students taking a science A Level to complete, and pass, the practical element.
Where this is a formal requirement it will be specified in our course entry requirements and in the offers we issue.
In addition to changes to AS and A Levels, GCSEs in England have also been reformed.
The reforms, which were phased in between 2015 and 2017, include the introduction of revised subjects and a numeric grading system, which replaced A*–G grades.
The numeric scale comprises grades of 9 to 1, where 9 is the highest and 1 is the lowest grade.
Guidance from Ofqual indicates that a grade 4 is broadly comparable to the old GCSE grade C, and therefore more differentiation is offered at the higher levels of ability by the new numeric structure.
We require students to achieve grade 4 or above in the English Language GCSE completed in England.
We continue to require a grade C from GCSE English Language qualifications completed outside England.
Some of our degree courses require a higher grade in GCSE English Language, or achievement in maths or other subjects.
In these cases, the GCSE requirement will be specified in our course entry requirements.
At present, we require all applicants to have achieved a minimum of a Grade C in GCSE English language (or an accepted English Language qualification ).
However, the English Baccalaureate is not required for entry onto our undergraduate degrees.
We will welcome applicants offering the English Baccalaureate, but we will treat them equally to those achieving in a range of GCSE subjects.
Please note that some courses require a higher GCSE grade in English, and achievement in maths and other subjects.
Details are provided in our course entry requirements.
Applied General qualifications are Level 3 qualifications that allow 16- to 19-year-olds to develop transferable knowledge and skills.
They are for students who want to continue their education through applied learning.
Applied General qualifications allow entry to a range of higher education courses, either by fully meeting the entry requirements in their own right or through acceptance alongside other qualifications at Level 3, such as A Levels.
The University of Sheffield will consider relevant Applied General qualifications (such as BTECs and Cambridge Technicals) for entry to a number of our undergraduate courses.
Some courses specify required levels of achievement in particular units, or ask for additional qualifications to satisfy subject requirements.
Students taking combinations of Applied General qualifications, or combining them with other Level 3 qualifications such as A Levels, should avoid combinations of similar subjects.
The Technical Baccalaureate is not required for entry to our undergraduate degrees.
We welcome applicants offering the TechBacc, and we will treat them equally to those offering suitable stand-alone Tech Level/Applied General courses.
We normally expect applicants to offer three full A Levels or an accepted equivalent qualification/combination of qualifications (this includes some of the Tech Level courses taken as part of the Technical Baccalaureate).
We may be able to consider the composite parts of a particular Technical Baccalaureate if these are deemed to cover the depth and breadth of study required for an undergraduate degree at the University of Sheffield and meet our published entry requirements.
Entry requirements do vary from course to course and we would advise applicants to check the course pages on our website, particularly for any subject-specific requirements (such as A Level Maths), before submitting an application.
The Admissions Service continues to work closely with the Department for Education, awarding organisations and schools/colleges to understand more about T Levels.
We are also working with UCAS and colleagues in the Russell Group to discern more about their suitability for progression to higher education.
It is important to us that our students are appropriately prepared to cope with the demands of our courses, therefore our Admissions Service will assess each T Level qualification individually to better understand their suitability for admission to the University and the degree courses we offer.
Whilst some T Level qualifications may be suitable for a range of our courses, others will be allied to particular academic routes and so are likely only to be suitable for progression to degree courses within the same field.
Where specific Level 3 knowledge is required to progress onto a degree course, often expressed via A Level subject requirements, it may be that this subject matter is not covered in equivalent depth or breadth within the T Level and therefore the T Level would not offer sufficient preparation for direct progression to the first year of the course.
Once reviewed, acceptable T Levels will be listed in course entry requirements in our online prospectus.
Where a course does not advertise acceptable T Levels but an applicant presents a qualification likely to be allied to the degree pathway, their application will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Where academic selectors have assessed the content of all allied T Levels and find there is no acceptable progression route, this will be included in the course listing as 'not accepted'.
In September 2014 a new suite of 'Core Maths' qualifications (equivalent to an AS Level in size) were introduced to encourage the continuation of mathematical study post-16:
AQA Level 3 Certificate Mathematical Studies
City & Guilds Level 3 Certificate in Using and Applying Mathematics
OCR Level 3 Certificate in Quantitative Problem Solving
OCR Level 3 Certificate in Quantitative Reasoning
Pearson Edexcel Level 3 Certificate in Mathematics in Context
WJEC Eduqas Level 3 Certificate in Mathematics for Work and Life
Core Maths qualifications specifically focus on the use of mathematics skills in contextualised, complex scenarios.
The University of Sheffield welcomes the ethos behind the development of Core Maths and recognises that students who are not taking AS or A Level Maths may find these qualifications beneficial in preparing for undergraduate study, even if the course does not require AS or A Level Maths as part of the entry requirements.
We welcome the evidence of breadth of study and skills development that studying Maths post-16 level can provide.
Where a Core Maths qualification is presented alongside three A Levels or equivalent, we may be able to issue an alternative offer as part of our Access Sheffield scheme:
We will not accept Core Maths in lieu of A Level Maths where this is a specified requirement for entry.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/access-sheffield/home:
Access Sheffield recognises that everyone has the potential to progress to higher education but may have different circumstances and barriers to overcome.
You might be eligible for additional support to help you access education at Sheffield.
Access Sheffield helps ensure that everyone who has the potential to succeed on our courses has the opportunity to do so.
We recognise that ability isn't always demonstrated through a standard set of qualifications, not everyone has an easy journey through school or goes to University at the same stage.
In our efforts to build a diverse and inclusive community of students, we also acknowledge that not everyone comes from the same background, or has access to the same level of support and guidance when looking to apply to university.
Our Access Sheffield policies help ensure that everyone who has the potential to succeed on our courses has the opportunity to do so.
Eligible students can get extra support above and beyond a contextual offer through Access+.
We work together on a number of regional and national partnerships to widen access to higher education.
Find contact details for the Access Service

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/policies/disrupted-studies:
If you've applied to study an undergraduate or postgraduate taught course and have experienced issues of a personal, social or domestic nature that have affected your studies, or your ability to meet our published entry requirements, we'd encourage you to let us know by completing our Disrupted Studies form.
We realise there are some issues that can't be discussed fully within the personal statement in your application.
These are often things of a sensitive nature.
The Disrupted Studies form gives you the opportunity to demonstrate how your situation has affected your post-16/undergraduate studies, or any GCSE subjects that are needed as part of our course entry requirements.
These should be circumstances that haven't already been mitigated by an examination board, or taken into account prior to awarding marks for formal assessments, such as coursework.
We don't have a list of qualifying criteria for the Disrupted Studies scheme.
Examples of circumstances that we may consider are provided below, but all we ask is that you use the form to tell us about circumstances that have affected you and which have been outside your immediate control.
Information that sets your application in its educational or socio-economic context, for example if you live in an area with low participation in higher education, isn't considered via the Disrupted Studies scheme.
For undergraduate applicants this information will be handled in accordance with our Access Sheffield policies .
If you're an undergraduate applicant and have been in care, are estranged from your family or are a carer, we may be able to make you an alternative offer equivalent to one A Level grade below the standard entry requirements for your course.
You'll need to complete our eligibility declaration form to be considered.
See our Access Sheffield guidance to find out more.
Lifelong Learning foundation years courses are designed specifically for mature learners (aged 21 or over) who have been out of education for some time and haven't previously accessed higher education.
The requirements for entry are different from those for students wishing to enter directly onto a degree course.
However, applications from non-mature students can be considered if they've experienced extenuating circumstances which have had a demonstrable impact on their Level 3 achievements.
Non-mature applicants will still be expected to demonstrate that they:
In order to demonstrate how they meet these eligibility criteria, all non-mature applicants are expected to notify the Lifelong Learning team of their disrupted studies by completing the bespoke Lifelong Learning Disrupted Studies form (doc, 63KB).
The Disrupted Studies process can be initiated by yourself or by your referee.
In some instances we may contact an applicant's academic referee directly to suggest they encourage an applicant to complete the form.
Your notification of Disrupted Studies should:
You can download a copy of the appropriate Disrupted Studies form via the following links:
Undergraduate Disrupted Studies form (doc, 61KB)
Lifelong Learning foundation years U21 Disrupted Studies form (doc, 99KB)
Postgraduate Taught Disrupted Studies form (doc, 64KB)
Part 1 of the Disrupted Studies form should be completed, signed and dated by the applicant, including the following information:
Part 2 of the form is for the academic or appropriate third-party referee to complete, and should be a statement confirming the details supplied by the applicant in Part 1, and providing information about the applicant's academic trajectory and any barriers to their progression to/in higher education.
While every effort has been made to minimise the burden on both applicants and referees wishing to notify us of Disrupted Studies, we ask referees to complete one form for each applicant.
Both the applicant and the referee should sign the declarations in Part 3.
Applicants should normally provide supporting evidence with their Disrupted Studies form (for example a doctor's letter), but we understand that in some situations this may not be possible.
Where such third-party evidence isn't available we may go back to your referee for further corroboration.
All sections of the form must be completed in full before it's returned to us.
Where possible, Disrupted Studies forms should reach us at the same time as the application.
We can't guarantee to consider any information received after this point when we make decisions about which applicants to invite to interview or to receive offers.
Forms supporting applications for undergraduate degree courses or Lifelong Learning foundation years should reach us by 31 July in the year of entry.
Forms supporting applications for postgraduate taught courses should reach us before your final grades/transcripts are supplied.
All Disrupted Studies forms are subject to further review when your exam results are released/supplied to the University.
The information will be passed to the academic selector(s) for the course(s) you've applied for, who will assess it in accordance with the University's Student Admissions Policy .
This will help our selectors to make a holistic academic judgment at each of the three decision-making moments: selection for interview (where relevant); offer-making; and Confirmation (confirming places following the release of exam results).
Information submitted via the Disrupted Studies form will be recorded on your applicant record.
This will enable us both to assess the results of the scheme and to provide you with any relevant pre-entry support.
All data is held in accordance with data protection legislation and will not be shared beyond the University of Sheffield.
If you are accepted under the Disrupted Studies scheme and go on to register as a student at the University, we'll pass your details to our Disability and Dyslexia Support Service or Student Experience, Diversity and Inclusion team , as appropriate.
We welcome applications from disabled students and invite them to use the Disrupted Studies form where relevant, but also to declare their circumstances in their UCAS application.
More information about support is available via the University of Sheffield's Disability and Dyslexia Support Service.
If you have any questions about the Disrupted Studies scheme, please contact the Admissions Service's Applicant Support Team:
disruptedstudies@sheffield.ac.uk
0114 222 1410

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/policies/disabled-applicants:
We welcome disabled students.
We're committed to responding effectively and appropriately to individual support needs.
We take all practicable steps to ensure that disabled students can participate in their studies without disadvantage, and can make full use of our academic and support services.
We have standard procedures for considering your application if you have a disability.
Our academic selectors only assess your academic suitability.
Your support requirements are dealt with separately by our Disability and Dyslexia Support Service (DDSS).
We may ask you to complete an online form where you can give us more information.
This is optional, but can help us to arrange in advance any support you might require.
Where appropriate, we can also arrange for you to discuss support with one of our advisers, or to visit the campus before you start your course.
If you want to visit the University during the application process but can't attend one of our open days, you can arrange an individual visit by telephoning us on 0114 222 9872 or emailing myday@sheffield.ac.uk .
You can find information about the support available for disabled students on the Disability and Dyslexia Support Service website:
If you want to discuss support with them, their contact details are:
The Hillsborough Centre Alfred Denny Building Western Bank Sheffield S10 2TN
0114 222 1303
disability.info@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/english-language:
If you want to study at the University of Sheffield, you must be able to show that your English is good enough for you to successfully complete your course.
This webpage lists the English language tests and other qualifications we accept.
We also accept some first degrees taught in English.
We consider these qualifications alongside other evidence of English language ability included in your application, for example in the supporting statement.
We will base our decision on the English language qualification you were awarded most recently.
If your qualification is not included in the lists below, or if you need further information, please contact the Admissions Service .
If you need help to improve your English, our English Language Teaching Centre offers a range of pre-sessional courses.
If you have recently been awarded a first degree or postgraduate diploma taught in English in person in a majority native English speaking country , you will not normally need to provide other evidence of English language ability.
You should have been awarded your degree/diploma within five years of the start date of your Sheffield course.
If you have recently been awarded a first degree or postgraduate diploma taught in English in a non-majority native English-speaking country, you will still need to present one of the tests or qualifications listed below (this applies even if your degree/diploma has an English Proficiency and Qualification Comparison from ECCTIS).
However, if you were awarded your degree/diploma within 12 months of the start date of your Sheffield course, and provide an official letter from your university that confirms you were taught in English, we will exempt you from the time limits listed below.
Successfully completing an appropriate pre-sessional English language course offered by the University's English Language Teaching Centre (ELTC) meets our English language requirements.
The pre-sessional course should be completed no more than two years before the start date of the degree course.
Successfully completing a Pre-Masters at the University of Sheffield International College meets our English language requirements.
The Pre-Masters should be completed no more than two years before the start date of the degree course.
Tests measure English language ability at a single point in time.
If you are presenting one of the tests listed in this section, it should have been completed no more than two years before the start date of your Sheffield course.
For most of these tests, different courses require different levels of achievement.
For postgraduate taught courses, the IELTS requirements are published in each course listing .
The IELTS requirements for research degrees are published on our PhD webpages .
We will verify the scores you declare with the test provider.
* We accept IELTS Academic (paper-based or on computer), IELTS for UKVI Academic (paper-based or on computer), IELTS Online, IELTS Indicator (taken from 1 July 2020) and IELTS One Skill Retake scores.
We do not accept IELTS Life Skills or IELTS General Training scores.
** All components should be taken within the same 14-day period *** The OET is only accepted for entry to courses offered by the Faculty of Health **** We do not accept PTE Academic Online ***** We do not accept the TOEFL paper-based test (discontinued April 2021), or MyBest scores
If the IELTS requirements for your course are not included in this table, you can check what you need to achieve in the Cambridge C1 Advanced, Cambridge C2 Proficiency, Pearson and TOEFL tests on our ELTC webpages .
If you are taking a different test, please contact the Admissions Service for advice.
We also accept a wide range of English language qualifications that include a formal programme of study.
The levels of achievement we normally require are detailed below.
A few courses do not accept certain qualifications, or ask for higher levels of achievement.
Where this is the case, it will be made clear in the course information.
If you were awarded one of these qualifications more than five years before the start date of your Sheffield course, we may ask you to complete a new English language qualification.
Please include with your application any evidence you have of ongoing use of English.
If your certificates or transcripts are in a language other than English, we may ask you to supply official, authenticated translations.
We will normally verify the achievements you declare with your school or examination board.
Cambridge Assessment International Education GCE O Level, English
For example:
Grade B or above
This qualification is exempt from the usual five-year time limit.
Please note that we do not accept Grade B- in the KCSE English.
The CEFR Level should state B2 or above
Students should go on to complete A Level or IB qualifications (in any subject taught in English)
We require a scanned copy of the IP transcript as evidence of completion
Grade C or above
This qualification is exempt from the usual five-year time limit
You should still have completed an English language qualification or degree taught in English as listed above, but we may exempt you from our usual time limit requirements if you have at least 12 months of recent employment in a role that involves regular communication in English.
This employment should either be ongoing, or have been completed no more than six months before the Sheffield course start date.
You should include with your application an official letter from your current/most recent employer that confirms 1) your English language proficiency, in listening, reading, speaking and writing, 2) the dates of your employment and 3) how you use English in your role.
For applicants from Singapore, we also accept the National Service Certificate of Service as evidence of professional experience of using English.
Applicants to courses in the Faculty of Health: You should still have completed an English language qualification or degree taught in English as listed above, but we will exempt you from our usual time limit requirements if you include with your application 1) evidence that you are currently registered with the General Medical Council (GMC), General Dental Council (GDC), Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), or Medical Council of Ireland (MCI) and 2) a letter from your employer confirming your continued English language proficiency, in listening, reading, speaking and writing.
If your qualification is not listed on this page, we will not be able to accept it.
We are also not normally able to accept the English language modules studied as part of a degree course.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/supporting:
When you apply for postgraduate study, you should include the supporting documents relevant for your application.
Typically, we'll require the following documents, but please consult department webpages for information about any specific or additional requirements they may have.
This would usually be in the form of an academic transcript or certificate.
If you haven't yet graduated, please upload your most recent transcript, showing your results to date.
If you're studying qualifications from an institution outside the UK, please also include documents indicating the marking scheme used.
If you're able to submit these at the point of application, this will help us to correctly formulate any offer we make.
The translation should clearly state that it is an accurate translation of the original, and include all of the following pieces of information:
Postgraduate research degrees: The application form will normally ask you to arrange two references.
Postgraduate taught courses: For most applications, we won't require any references.
Sometimes we ask for one or two references, either in the application form or as part of the assessment process.
If we don't ask you for references, you don't need to supply them.
If we ask for references, see below for what we need and how to supply it.
Your referee(s) should provide their personal opinion of your ability and suitability to undertake postgraduate study, in particular your previous academic achievements (especially in comparison to those of your peers), and any distinct strengths and weaknesses (for example motivation, commitment, independence, ability to work under sustained pressure).
Please be aware that we may contact your referee(s).
The certificate from the test provider/awarding body that confirms you have been awarded the qualification.
For more information about acceptable English language qualifications, please see our English language requirements webpage.
You should supply a statement of at least 300 words giving your reasons for applying and any other information you want to include in support of your application.
Among the issues you may wish to cover are how your previous education and experience relates to the course, and how the course fits into your long-term academic or career plans.
For postgraduate research applicants , the statement should also include details of the area of research you want to pursue.
For subject areas such as science, engineering and medicine, where the programme of research may link into an ongoing research project, include a brief outline of the area(s) of interest along with the name of a preferred supervisor(s), if you know them.
Applicants for research within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities and the Faculty of Social Sciences are normally required to provide an outline research proposal .
Except where indicated otherwise on departmental webpages, the proposal should be about 500–1000 words in length and should incorporate the following information:
You may also wish to supply a curriculum vitae (CV) or resume.
This is particularly useful if you have professional experience that is relevant to the area you want to study.
Some courses may ask you to include samples of your written work, or a portfolio of artwork.
Where this is the case, information will be included on the course webpages.
Where the original documents are on paper, please upload high quality scanned colour copies or colour photographs.
The uploads should show the full document, including all text, images and security features.
If your application is successful, you may need to show us the original paper copies of your qualifications documents when you come to register at the University.
If you haven't yet finished a course, or have simply not scanned your documents, you can tell us via your online application that you want to provide your documents later.
You can also tell us that you don't intend to send a supporting document for a specific category, although it's unlikely a decision can be made on your application without all of the supporting documentation.
You can upload documents after you've submitted your application simply by logging back in to your online application .
We'll need to confirm the authenticity of the documents you supply during the application process.
We normally use the online verification services offered by many universities.
If your previous university has an online verification service, please grant the University of Sheffield access to this.
If your university doesn't have an online verification service, you should upload to your application clear, colour photographs or scans of your original qualification documents (not copies or certified copies).
These documents must:
Please note that we can't accept digital certificates/transcripts if your university doesn’t have an online verification service.
If we want to offer you a place but we haven't been able to verify your qualifications, we'll make verifying your qualifications a condition of our offer.
Applying for a taught postgraduate course
Applying for a research degree

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study-skills/research/methods/proposal:
Advice and guidance on writing a proposal for a student research project.
A research proposal is your plan for the research you intend to conduct.
It should describe:
Your research proposal also needs to persuade someone about how and why your intended project is worthwhile.
In your proposal you will need to explain and defend your choices.
Always think about the exact reasons why you are making specific choices and why they are the best options available to you and your project.
Your research proposal should focus on:
Feasibility - You need to show that your project is both reasonable and feasible within the practical constraints of the course, timescales, institution or funding.
You need to make sure you have the time and access to resources to complete the project in a reasonable period.
Writing a Research Proposal workshop: book here
The format of a research proposal varies between fields and levels of study but most proposals should contain at least these elements:
Research proposals usually range from 500-1500 words.
However, proposals for larger projects, such as a PhD dissertation or funding request, may be longer and more detailed.
Check the required format for your discipline and context.
The introduction to your proposal is the initial pitch for your project.
Make sure it succinctly explains what you want to do and why.
In other words, this is where you answer the reader’s “so what?”
It should typically include:
Some important questions to shape your introduction include:
If your proposal is very long, you might include separate sections with more detailed information on the background and context, aims and objectives, and importance of the research.
To get you started, try describing your proposed research project to a friend or family member, or imagine how you would describe it to them.
What background information would you need to provide?
What would the impact of the research be for the general public?
It’s important to show that you’re familiar with the most important research on your topic.
A strong literature review convinces the reader that your project has a solid foundation in existing knowledge or theory (i.e.
how it relates to established research in the field).
Your literature review will also show that you’re not simply repeating what other people have already done or said.
This is also where you explain why your research is necessary.
You do not need to conduct a full literature review, as you will do that later during the research project, but you do need to provide an overview of the key research and ideas relating to your topic.
You might want to consider some of the following prompts:
Visit How to write a literature review for detailed information.
Following the literature review, you can restate your main objectives to bring the focus back to your own project.
The research design/ methodology section should describe the overall approach and practical steps you will take to answer your research questions.
You also need to demonstrate the feasibility of the project, keeping in mind time and other constraints.
You should include:
Do not simply compile a list of methods.
Explain why this is the most appropriate, valid and reliable way to approach answering your question.
Remember you should always be defending your choices!
You might also need to include a schedule or a budget - check what is required for your proposal.
To finish your proposal on a strong note, emphasise the potential implications of the research.
This means: what do you intend to contribute to existing knowledge on the topic?
Although you cannot know the results of your research until you have actually done the work, you should have a clear idea of how your work will contribute to your field.
This section is very important because it expresses exactly why your research is necessary.
Try to cover at least some of the following topics:
This part is not about stating the specific results that you expect to obtain but rather, this is the section where you explicitly state how your findings will be valuable.
This section should tie your whole proposal together.
It is just like the concluding paragraph that you would structure and craft for a typical essay.
You should briefly summarise your research proposal and reinforce why your research is important.
Your research proposal must include proper citations and full references for every source you have included.
Follow your department’s referencing style .
You should write in an academic style.
Your proposal is a piece of persuasive and critical writing.
Although you are presenting your proposal in an academic and objective manner, the goal is to get the reader to say ‘yes’ to your work.
Make sure you emphasise the strengths of your proposal and why your research is important.
Resources on how to write critically:
Academic writing does not need to be flowery or pretentious.
Aim to write in a concise and accessible style.
Book a writing advisory service appointment for advice and feedback on your style and other aspects of your proposal.
Make an appointment
Once you have written your proposal, read back through it with the following questions in mind.
Check for spelling, grammatical or stylistic errors.
Visit How to proofread your work for more information.
Once you get to the stage of carrying out your research project, you may find our
Research Writing workshop useful.
This workshop will look at some of the main writing challenges associated with writing a large-scale research project and look at strategies to manage your writing on a day-to-day basis.
It will identify ways to plan, organise and map out the structure of your writing to allow you to develop an effective writing schedule and make continuous progress on your dissertation project.
Use your mySkills portfolio to discover your skillset, reflect on your development, and record your progress.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application:
These pages provide guidance on how to apply for a Student visa to study in the UK.
Specific information for those applying from inside the UK.
Specific information for those applying from outside the UK.
Examples of documents you can provide to support your Visa application.
Continuing students wishing to extend or renew their Student Visa can apply for a new Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) from International Student Support.
CAS (Continuing students)
Some courses require you to obtain Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) clearance as part of the Visa application.
You need to meet academic progression rules to obtain a Student Visa.
Academic progression for continuing students Academic progression for new students
You may have to pay a surcharge as part of your Visa application to access NHS services.
Guidance for applicants having problems with their application.
Students on a Student visa will face time limits on how long they can spend in the UK, depending on their level of study.
Student visa time limits

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/inside-uk:
Guidance on making a Student Visa application from inside the UK.
Guidance on making a Student visa application from inside the UK.
Making an application
Guidance on applying for visas for dependants.
Dependants

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/outside-uk:
Things to be aware of if you're making a Student visa application from outside the UK.
Guidance on making a Student visa application from outside the UK.
You may need to take a TB test as part of your application.
Tuberculosis screenings
Check that you have been given the correct visa duration.
Visa duration
You may be required to attend a credibility interview.
Credibility interviews
Things to be aware of when you arrive in the UK
On arrival in the UK

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/visitor-short-term:
Students wanting to complete a short course or study for a short period of time in the UK may be able to use a Visit visa or Short-Term Student visa.
A Visit visa is only valid for six months.
You can only study on a Visit visa if one of the following specific circumstances apply to you:
You must be studying outside of the UK for a University of Sheffield qualification by distance learning.
You can come to the UK for short periods of time for activities such as induction weeks, intensive face-to-face learning, one-to-one progress checks or to sit exams or assessments.
You must not use frequent or repeat visits to pursue a longer course.
A course can be both distance learning and part-time.
However a part-time course of more than six months in length cannot be studied using the visitor route unless it’s distance learning (ie any periods making the course more than six months are completed overseas).
Distance learning courses, re-sitting exams, retaking modules and taking a viva are the only instances where you can use the Visitor visa for a period of study that is part of a course at the University that is longer than six months overall.
Otherwise, if your course is more than six months, you will need to apply for, and obtain a Student Visa in your home country before coming to the UK.
Apply for a student visa
Unlike students with a Student visa, Visitors are not tied to a certain course.
Therefore, if you are in the UK as a Visitor it should be possible for you to change your course, but the study that you change to must still be one of the types of courses that Visitors are permitted to study (listed above).
If you are extending your study so that your course becomes more than six months in length (eg where you are studying a single semester Study Abroad course in Sheffield, and you wish to add an extra semester), you will not be able to do this when you are in the UK as a Visitor.
You will be advised to obtain a Student visa in your home country before returning to the UK for the rest of your course.
If you’re a non-visa national (your nationality is not on the list of visa nationals ) you do not need to apply for a Visit visa before travelling.
You can travel to the UK and request to enter for free as a Visitor.
You may need to apply for an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) before travel to the UK - refer to the ' Electronic Travel Authorisation ' section below.
If you use an electronic passport gate (e-Gate) upon entry you will automatically receive Visitor status and will be considered in the UK under Visit visa rules.
When travelling to the UK you should carry all relevant supporting documents in your hand luggage.
You may need to show these to a Border Officer.
See the documents section below .
If you’re a visa national (your nationality is on the list of visa nationals ) you must apply for a Visit visa before travelling.
You must submit and pay for a Visit visa application and receive this in order to obtain entry to the UK.
You should check that you have all the relevant supporting documents before applying.
You must then submit a Visit visa application online.
Use the link below to make your application.
GOV.UK- Visit the UK as a Standard Visitor
If you do not currently need a visa to travel to the UK (ie you are a non-visa national) and wish to enter the UK as a visitor, you will need to apply for an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) which gives you permission to travel.
This GOV.UK web page has more information on who can get an ETA and how to apply before coming to the UK.
Where you are on a Visitor visa you can’t:
As long as you leave the UK before any Visitor Visa you have expires, there is no specified maximum period that you can spend in the UK with a Visitor visa, such as ‘six months in 12 months’.
However, UKVI will check whether you’re making frequent or successive visits to the UK and can refuse a Visitor Visa application if they assess that you’re seeking to remain in the UK for extended periods or making the UK your home.
Where you are coming to the UK with a Visitor Visa (including non-visa nationals who seek entry to the UK as a visitor at the port of entry to the UK), you cannot pay the Immigration Health Surcharge.
This means that you will not have access to free healthcare under the NHS.
You should ensure that you have private medical insurance in place from the beginning of your stay in the UK.
Where you have a Short-Term Student visa to study English for six to eleven months you will pay Immigration Health Surcharge on your visa application which gives you access to the NHS.
This does not cover any dependants you may have with you in the UK.
Immigration Health Surcharge
If you are studying an English course that is six to eleven months in length, you can find information on how to apply for a Short-term Student Visa below:
UKVI Information on short-term student visa
If you are on a Short-term Student visa you can’t:
You should leave the UK within 30 days of the end of your original course of study or at the end of your 11-month visa, whichever is the earliest.
This should be in line with the course details and dates you included in your original visa application.
You will pay the Immigration Health Surcharge as part of the Short-Term Student visa application, which will allow you to use the NHS.
UKVI will check whether you’re making frequent or successive visits to the UK and can refuse a Short-Term Student application if they assess that you’re seeking to remain in the UK for extended periods to study a longer course or making the UK your home.
For example, if you apply for another Short-term Student visa less than two months after you last left the UK, or applying for multiple Short-term Student visas within a five year period may indicate this.
UKVI will also consider whether you genuinely intend to study as a Short-term Student as your reason for travelling to the UK.
The Short-term Student caseworkers guidance outlines the factors the Home Office will consider when they assess whether they believe you are a genuine Short-term Student.
These factors match the requirements of the route, and if you are refused on the basis that the Home Office doesn’t believe you are genuinely coming to the UK to undertake studies as a Short-term Student, they must clearly set out why they are not satisfied the requirement is met.
UKVI information on who can use ePassport gates
Short-term Student caseworkers guidance
Contact International Student Support
UKVI Visitor Visa Guidance (PDF, 739KB)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/supporting-documents:
This page outlines the supporting documents required when applying for a Student visa.
Where you are from a country under the 'Differential Evidence Requirement', you don’t need to submit financial documents with your visa application.
The list of counties covered by this is in paragraph ST22.1 of the Immigration Rules .
However, the caseworker can request to see these so you must ensure you have the correct documents as outlined below.
You do still need to submit all other required documents that apply to you.
The Home Office now accepts both original and copies of documents.
Documents provided must be in English otherwise you must provide a certified English translation of your document with your application.
Where you have translated an original document into English, the translation must include:
In some cases, UKVI will take action to verify if certain documents are genuine.
If they decide to do this, they will contact the organisation (for example bank, overseas government sponsor or university) that has issued that document directly.
It's very important that the organisation they contact responds to UKVI, as if they don't get confirmation from them that the document is genuine, they will not consider that document as evidence to support your visa application .
This could lead to the visa application being refused.
You must provide a current and valid passport or travel document.
UKVI does not require that a passport is valid for any particular period of time after arrival in the UK, but it must be valid when you make your application and when you arrive in the UK.
If your passport will expire very shortly after you arrive in the UK, it is advisable to renew it before you apply for your Student visa, if there is time to do so.
If your passport will expire at any other point during your time in the UK, you should check with the passport issuing authority in your home country if you will be able to replace it in the UK.
This is possible for most nationalities, but not all.
Although UKVI no longer issue BRPs and they will all now have expired on 31 December 2024 at the latest, they have advised that you should keep hold of your BRP if possible.
It will not be a required document for your visa application, but it should enable you to use the UKVI ID check app when applying submitting a further visa application inside the UK.
Refer to the following for more information:
eVisas and BRPs
Where you are applying outside the UK from a country that requires a TB test certificate, you must include this within your application.
Visit the page below to check if you need to provide a TB test certificate:
Where your course requires ATAS clearance you must apply for an ATAS clearance certificate and provide this with your visa application.
Visit the page below to check if you need to provide an ATAS clearance certificate:
Where you were previously financially sponsored by a government or international scholarship agency, you must provide a letter from your past financial sponsor giving unconditional consent for you to remain and re-enter the UK if:
If you are under 18, you must provide:
The letter must be signed by both parents, or just one parent if that parent has sole responsibility for you.
As well as the letter below that you will need for your Student visa, there are additional documents that you will need to provide to the University, and additional University requirements that you will need to meet if you will be under the age of 18 when you start your studies here.
This is different from what you need for your Student visa application.
If this applies to you, read the information here carefully.
Parent/Guardian Consent to Study Letter (PDF, 130kb)
You must enter the CAS reference number given to you by the University in your visa application form.
Where you're studying below degree level, you must provide any documents listed on your CAS with your visa application, unless you are from a differential evidence country.
If you're studying below degree level and you're from a differential evidence country, you do not need to submit your academic qualifications with your visa application.
You should keep the qualification documents listed on your CAS safe with you, so you can submit them if UKVI contact you to request them.
Where you're studying below degree level and you're not from a differential evidence country, you must submit acceptable evidence of your qualifications with your visa application.
Acceptable evidence includes:
The documents you will need to provide will be listed on your CAS.
Where you are studying at degree level or above, you don’t need to provide documents showing your previous qualifications with your visa application, even if they are listed on your CAS.
If you have been in the UK for 12 months or more, and you apply for your visa inside the UK before your current visa expires, you will automatically meet the financial requirement.
You won’t need to submit your financial documents.
Where you have had absences from the UK in the 12 months before the date you submit your visa application, UKVI's guidance on the financial requirement suggests that you will still meet the requirement if you have only had holidays and short absences.
UKVI list being absent from the UK for at least three months as an example of where you would not meet this requirement.
If you have had one or more absence(s) from the UK in the 12 months before you submit your visa application, and the total time you were outside the UK was more than three months, we would advise that you don’t automatically meet the financial requirement.
If you don’t automatically meet the financial requirement, and you are not from a differential evidence country, you must provide evidence to show you have adequate funds.
If you are from a differential evidence country, you don’t need to submit financial documents with your visa application, but you should prepare documents that meet the requirements below in case UKVI contacts you to request them.
For new students, this is your first year’s tuition fees plus living costs.
You can deduct any amount of the tuition fee that has already been paid to the University.
If you are a continuing student, you will need to show funds to cover the outstanding tuition fee for the academic year that your CAS has been issued in plus living costs.
Living costs are £1136 per month of your course up to a maximum of nine months.
Therefore, if the length of your course is nine months or more this amount is £10224.
Further guidance on financial requirements and documents required is on pages 40 to 44 of the Student Visa Guidance .
The rules and guidance no longer set out specific criteria that a financial document must meet (except for loan letters).
More guidance on what UKVI caseworkers may expect to see when assessing if they are satisfied with the evidence is published below:
Also see ' Examples of Financial Documents ' below.
You must show that you have held the correct amount of money for at least 28 consecutive days before the date you complete your visa application online.
Your funds must not have dropped below the required amount during this time.
Acceptable documents include:
For loans:
For bank documents:
The financial institution or bank must:
List of regulatory authorities and supervisory agencies
The funds held must be:
As long as the funds can be withdrawn and accessed immediately, you can use the following types of funds:
The document itself must be:
You can now use electronic statements from online banking, and there is no longer any need to get these stamped by the bank.
Where you are using your parent’s bank account, you must provide all of the following documents:
Where you are partly or fully sponsored by an official financial sponsor you must submit a letter confirming the details of the funding.
Any dependants must also be named on the letter for the funds to be counted towards their maintenance.
Sponsor letters are only accepted from:
We have created some examples of supporting documents that may help guide you on whether your financial documents will meet UKVI's requirements.
The series of documents we have created below is not an exhaustive list of the different types of financial documents that could be provided.
If you need more information, refer to the Student Visa guidance and Guidance on Financial Requirement below.
Bank account documents & deposits
Certificate of Deposit (PDF, 88KB)
Bank Letter (PDF, 111KB)
Bank Statement -Received through the post (PDF, 78KB)
Bank Statement - Printed In Bank Branch (PDF, 56KB)
Bank Statement - From Online Banking (PDF, 679KB)
Building Society Passbook (PDF, 790KB)
Sponsor letters
Official Financial Sponsor Letter - Living Costs Not Fully Covered (PDF, 1305KB)
Official Financial Sponsor Letter - Living Costs Fully Covered (PDF, 1137KB)
Loans for education
Loan Letter - From a bank or financial institution (PDF, 53KB)
Loan Letter - US Loan from William D Ford Program (PDF, 248KB)
Student Visa Guidance (PDF, 1.08MB)
Guidance on Financial Requirement (PDF, 313KB)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/cas-continuing:
Continuing students wishing to extend, renew, or switch to a Student Visa can apply for a new Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) from International Student Support Advice and Compliance (ISSAC).
In most cases, continuing students may need a new Student visa because their course details or circumstances have changed.
If you have gone through the ‘change of status’ approval process you should have received visa advice from ISSAC via email at the time you changed your studies.
Refer back to this email for specific advice about your visa, what you need to do and when to request your new CAS.
You can also find more information about changes to studies on our Change of status page .
You should also ensure that you are aware of any visa time limits and academic progression rules (if you can apply for your new visa in the UK or not).
Some examples of when you may need a new CAS include:
If you are an applicant who is applying for a CAS to start a new course at the University, you must complete the Admissions CAS process.
You can find more information here .
If you are a continuing student, the ISSAC Compliance team issues your CAS.
The CAS request process is explained below:
It is your responsibility to ensure that you request your CAS as early as possible and respond to any emails from the team requesting further information promptly.
You should only request a CAS request up to three months before the date that you will need your new Student visa (which will be the start date of your new CAS).
If you have received visa advice as part of a ‘change of status’ then this should tell you when you need to request a CAS.
Some common examples for when to request a CAS would be up to three months before:
Depending on your circumstances, you may need to provide supporting documents before your CAS can be issued.
In most cases, the team will ask for these documents during the process of creating your CAS, but you may also be asked for further documents.
Some examples of what you may need to provide are included below (but do not cover all scenarios):
Once we receive your completed CAS form, our standard issuing time is five working days.
However, if we need further information from you or your academic department this may take longer.
Your new CAS will be issued in line with the period you require Student visa sponsorship for; this means the period that you are expected to study in-person within the UK.
In most cases, your CAS end date will reflect your registration expected course end date in full, however there are a few scenarios where your CAS end date may be earlier than this.
For instance, you may receive a shorter CAS if you have a final submission date which is before your registration end date or if you will not be studying internally (with attendance) in the UK throughout your registration period.
Your CAS will be valid for six months from the date it’s assigned, and can be used to apply for a new student visa within its validity period.
The CAS expiry date refers to the date you must have submitted your visa application, so as long as you pay for and submit the visa application before your CAS expires then it should still be accepted by UKVI.
The University may withdraw a CAS if the CAS start date passes and a student fails to reply to emails to provide an update about their intentions to use it, or provide evidence of a visa application when asked.
You will receive an email to your University email account with details on how to access your CAS.
When you receive your new CAS, it is your responsibility to check the details carefully to ensure these are all correct.
In particular, take the time to check that your course end date is correct and matches what you expect it to be.
If there are any errors then you must contact us at casenquiries@sheffield.ac.uk as soon as possible so we can look into the issue and make any corrections.
If you receive an incorrect visa because of CAS-related errors then UKVI will not correct this and you would need to make a new visa application using a new CAS again at full cost.
If your new CAS does not show all the tuition fees that you have paid for the relevant academic year, this will be automatically updated by the Fees and Funding Team within one to three days of your CAS being issued.
You will be able to view your updated CAS in MUSE as soon as this has been done.
Below are a few specific scenarios where additional guidance may be useful:
Further information on leave of absence (LOA) can be found on our LOA web page .
Further information can be found on our Repeats or resits web page .
As a Student visa sponsor, the University reserves the right to decline a CAS application where there is reason to believe that a student does not meet UKVI rules for receiving visa sponsorship, or where a student will not be able to meet the requirements for successfully obtaining a Student visa.
A CAS may also be denied based on University-specific policies or processes relating to Student visa sponsorship.
Examples of such instances can be, but are not limited to:
CAS information for new students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/atas:
Students studying subjects where the knowledge gained may have application in the development or delivery of weapons of mass destruction may be required to apply for an ATAS certificate.
ATAS is a certificate issued by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) giving you the security clearance to study subject areas where the knowledge gained may have application in the development or delivery of weapons of mass destruction (eg certain science subjects, mathematics, engineering, technology or medicine).
ATAS clearance is required:
If your course does require ATAS clearance and if you have a UK visa or permission in a category that requires ATAS clearance (nearly all visa categories require ATAS clearance), you will need to get an ATAS clearance in order to study that course, or apply for a new ATAS clearance if your course details change during study, except where stated below.
If you are a national of the EU, EEA, Switzerland, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea or the USA, refer to the following information:
Complete the online form to apply for an ATAS certificate.
The application has ten sections that should be completed in full.
Use the ATAS application guide (PDF, 1.48MB) to help you.
Visit the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) website for guidance on the online application.
It is vital that you check to ensure that you have not made any mistakes before you submit your ATAS application.
You should ensure that you have entered the information given to you by the University exactly as it appears on your offer letter.
The FCDO have advised that they will not correct errors they are told about after the ATAS certificate is issued, and that a new application must be submitted instead.
This means that submitting an application with mistakes could lead to delays in getting your certificate and you not being able to register on your course on time.
Do not submit duplicate applications as this adds to processing pressure, which may cause delays in getting your certificate.
Do not submit your ATAS application before you receive the ATAS information sheet from the Admissions team if you are a new student.
When you are on the 'Check if you need an ATAS certificate' and the 'Apply for an ATAS certificate' screens, if you are a student, confirm that you are a 'Taught/Research Student' and not a 'Researcher'.
When you choose this, you will also be asked a further question and will need to choose whether you are a taught or research student.
During the application, you must complete the “proposed course of study” section.
Your ATAS certificate is valid for six months from the date of issue for the purpose of applying for a Student Visa.
Apply for an ATAS certificate FCDO ATAS application guidance
You must apply for a new ATAS certificate within 28 days if:
To continue studying, you must provide evidence of your application.
If you are a continuing student, you will need to apply for a new ATAS clearance if:
If you are a continuing postgraduate research student applying to extend your visa before your viva, your ATAS clearance must cover your predicted viva date.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/academic-progression-continuing:
Students can only apply for a visa extension to complete their course from inside the UK if they meet the academic progression requirements listed below.
If you are extending your Student Visa to complete your course, you can only apply in the UK if you meet the academic progression rules or are exempt.
You can apply in the UK if you are
* For integrated masters upgrades, you would only be able to apply in the UK for your new visa if you are:
If you changed to the higher level course and have already been studying this then you would not meet these rules and would need to apply from overseas.
If none of the above applies to you, then you must apply for your visa from outside the UK .
If you are repeating or have previously repeated , have previously changed course and need a visa extension, you can only apply in the UK if you are repeating course modules or have repeated modules from the course that you have changed to.
You will be required to provide transcripts with your visa application to show that these modules are part of your current course and not the previous course that you have changed from.
Contact ISSAC if you are unsure what evidence you need to submit to show this.
Where you are extending your Student Visa to complete a postgraduate research course you may not be able to apply in the UK to do so.
You can apply in the UK if you
You cannot apply in the UK if you
If you change from a PhD to an MPhil course you should seek advice from ISSAC to confirm if you will require a new visa or not as part of this change, and if you meet academic progression rules.
Depending on your circumstances you may or may not require a new visa before you can move to the MPhil course.
If you do require a new visa, you would need to apply for this from overseas.
If you are intending on studying another course at the University of Sheffield after completing the course you are currently registered on, the information you need about the academic progression for your next course is here .
If you are intending on studying another course at a different institution, you should contact the immigration team at your next institution for guidance on academic progression.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/academic-progression-new:
New students applying for a Student Visa must show they are making academic progress from any course previously studied in the UK.
Academic progression is required for you to be issued a CAS for your new course and determines whether you can apply in the UK for your new Student Visa.
Your application will meet the academic progression criteria if:
Your application won’t meet the academic progression criteria if:
Where you do not meet the requirements, you may be assigned a CAS in exceptional circumstances if you submit your visa application from outside the UK.
Contact International Student Support, Advice & Compliance (ISSAC) for more information.
Contact ISSAC
If you wish to start a new course here, you must apply for a new Student Visa using your CAS from the University of Sheffield.
You can only apply inside the UK if:
And
Where you won’t receive the results of your previous course by the time your new course starts (eg Masters to PhD), you can only apply for a new visa in the UK if:
You can request this letter from the University of Sheffield Admissions Service where you:
Contact The University of Sheffield Admissions Service
You should ask your academic department for this letter where you:
Your department should have been sent a template for this, and should contact ISSAC if they do not have a copy of this.
You can’t apply inside the UK if:
You must return home to apply for your new Student Visa before you start your new course.
If you are a registered student and will be applying for a Student visa to continue your studies, there are different academic progression rules and exemptions you should be aware of.
This includes where you are a PhD student transferring to Sheffield from another institution in order to follow your supervisor to complete the PhD you were studying.
Visit the academic progression page for information on this.
CAS application process
Applying for a Student Visa outside the UK
Applying for a Student Visa inside the UK

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/immigration-health-surcharge:
Students applying to study in the UK may be required to pay the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) as part of their visa application.
If you are applying for a visa from outside the UK, you are required to pay the surcharge if you are applying for a visa to study in the UK for more than six months (but you are not applying to remain in the UK permanently).
If you are applying for a visa from inside the UK, you are required to pay the surcharge if you are making an immigration application for any length of time, including applications for six months or less (but you are not applying to remain in the UK permanently).
You must pay the IHS even if you have private medical insurance.
You do not need to pay the IHS when making an application under the EU Settlement Scheme.
You do not need to pay the IHS when making an application for a Visit visa or a Student visa from outside the UK that will be valid for six months or less.
Check if you need to pay the IHS
You and any dependants will be charged £776 per person for each year of visa you are applying for.
You are required to pay the full amount covering the full length of your visa as part of the visa application.
How much you pay overall will depend on how much leave you are granted.
Calculate your Immigration Health Surcharge
You must pay the IHS in full during your online visa application.
If you are charged an incorrect amount, UKVI may contact you if you need to pay a further surcharge after you submit the application.
You must ensure that you make the payment before the given deadline.
You’ll get a full immigration health surcharge (IHS) refund if:
You’ll get a partial IHS refund if your visa application is successful, but:
If you are due a full or partial refund for these reasons, you do not have to do anything to get it.
It will be automatically paid to the account or card you paid with.
You will not get a refund if:
For more information, visit:
GOV.UK: Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application - refunds
GOV.UK: Home Office caseworker guidance on the immigration health surcharge

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/problems:
Students experiencing problems with their Student Visa application can follow the advice below.
Contact International Student Support, Advice & Compliance (ISSAC) by live chat:
You can ask for the decision of your visa application to be reviewed by the Home Office by applying for an administrative review.
Apply for an administrative review online
Where you don’t meet the grounds for submitting an administrative review, you can apply for a new visa.
To make a new visa application:
We recommend that you contact ISSAC in person with your decision letter for advice on the above processes and information on how visa refusals will affect your registration.
Contact ISSAC by live chat:
Where your visa is still valid at the time of receiving your visa decision letter and you meet the Student visa requirements, you may be able to submit a new visa application.
Contact ISSAC in person with your decision letter.
Where your visa has expired by the time you receive the decision letter or you are unable to submit a new visa application before your current visa expires, contact ISSAC.
Where you require information on how your visa rejection will affect your registration, contact ISSAC.
To check whether your visa has been issued correctly you need to check the visa decision email/letter and register for your eVisa (where applicable).
If an agent or a solicitor applied for the visa on your behalf, it is important that you ask them to forward any decision letters or emails to you.
If you’re studying for longer than six months you need to check the details of your eVisa.
Information on registering for an eVisa is available here:
Create a UKVI account to get access to your eVisa
If you’re studying for less than six months and received a visa vignette (sticker in your passport) then you need to check this instead.
If you entered the UK as a visitor using an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) then your Visit permission will be valid for six months from the date of entry and you will not receive a formal visa document to check.
You should check your visa expiry date and make sure that you have been granted the full visa duration.
Check that your Student visa expiry date is correct
Where your visa has been issued with incorrect conditions (eg working hours, type of work allowed) or an incorrect expiry date you must contact ISSAC immediately for advice.
If you have a Student eVisa you can report the error to UKVI by completing an online form:
Report an eVisa error to UKVI
If you receive a vignette (sticker in your passport) that covers the full length of the visa instead of getting an eVisa) then there is a different way to correct any errors.
If you report a visa error and this is corrected by UKVI you must provide a copy of your updated visa to the University to update your student record.
Provide your corrected visa to the University

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/during-study/conditions-responsibilities/time-limits:
Students on a Student visa will face time limits on how long they can spend in the UK depending on their level of study.
Where you’re studying a course at degree level, you can spend a maximum of five years in the UK with a Student visa.
This includes any visas you have been granted under the previous Tier 4 visa system for study at degree level.
Your course is defined as 'Degree level' if the qualification you’re studying for (as listed on your CAS) is at level 6 on the Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF).
This is normally a Bachelors level qualification.
You must ensure any new course or extension doesn't take you over your time limit.
You can’t be issued a CAS to extend your Student Visa if this will take you over the time limit.
You’re exempt from the time limit if you:
When you’re in your fifth academic year when the time limit would stop you from completing your course, then the time limit is extended by 11 months.
Please note that UKVI's rules do not allow you to be issued visas for study of up to 5 years and 11 months in order for you to complete a 6th academic year at degree level.
There is currently no limit on how long you can be granted a visa for study if the qualification you’re studying for (as listed on your CAS) is above degree level.
'Above degree level' is defined as being at level 7 or above on the Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF).
This will apply to you if you’re applying for a visa to study a Masters or Doctorate level qualification.
The time limit is calculated based on the length of your visa and not the length of your course.
This includes the additional time on your visa at the start and end of your course.
Both the Home Office and the University round individual days or weeks to the nearest month, for example three months and ten days is rounded down to three months while three months and three weeks is rounded up to four months.
Times spent in the UK waiting for the decision on a visa application, on vacation, outside the UK, or not studying are included.
If your visa is curtailed (shortened), for example because you have taken a leave of absence from your course, they will only include the time your visa was valid up to the date your visa was shortened to, not the date that your shortened visa originally expired.
UKVI have confirmed there will be no extensions to the normal time limits for study on a Student or Tier 4 visa.
However, if you have had a leave of absence due to Covid-19 that will cause you to exceed your time limit, UKVI have indicated that they may apply discretion in the future.
If your next visa application would cause you to go over your time limit, you should contact International Student Support for advice.
Study/time limit extensions

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/during-study:
The following pages provide information and guidance on studying on a Student or Tier 4 Visa.
Guidance on arriving or returning to the UK on a Student or Tier 4 visa and collecting your BRP.
Arriving or returning to the UK
Advice on how changes to your studies affects your Student or Tier 4 visa, including leave of absence, programme changes, extensions, repeating exams & modules, withdrawals and location changes
Change of status
Information on your Student or Tier 4 visa conditions, including working in the UK, studying your course, and changes to your personal details.
Student visa responsibilities
Information on doing a work placement as part of your course when you have a Student visa.
Doing a work placement on a student visa
Guidance on how to apply for a student visa.
Making a visa application to study
What to do if your passport or Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) has been lost or stolen.
Lost/stolen passports or BRPs
If you are an International student and are planning to visit the Schengen area, you may need a Schengen Visa.
Schengen Visa information

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/during-study/returning-arriving:
Things to be aware of when you arrive in the UK on a Student or Tier 4 Visa.
Advice on entering the UK with a Student or Tier 4 visa.
Entering the UK
Guidance on setting up your eVisa, and what to do if you have a BRP.
eVisas

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/during-study/change-status:
Changes to your programme of study may affect your Student or Tier 4 visa, including if you change your course or withdraw from the University.
If you're on a Student or Tier 4 visa and want to change your programme of study, follow these steps.
Change your course
What to do before and after taking a leave of absence (LOA), and how this will affect your Student or Tier 4 visa.
Apply for an LOA
If you're a postgraduate taught student on a Student or Tier 4 visa and need to make changes during your dissertation period over summer
Changes to the PGT dissertation period
What you must do if you're withdrawing from the University
Withdraw from the University
How to extend your study/time limits as a postgraduate student on a Student or Tier 4 visa.
How your Student or Tier 4 visa status will be affected by repeating modules or resitting exams.
Repeating or resitting exams and assessments

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/during-study/conditions-responsibilities:
Students with a Student or Tier 4 visa have certain conditions and responsibilities attached to their stay in the UK.
There are certain conditions and responsibilities attached to having a student or Tier 4 visa for UK study.
Student visa conditions and responsibilities
Student eligibility to work on a Student or Tier 4 Visa, restrictions on the type of work, and how to look for work.
Working in the UK on a student visa
You must attend and engage in your course in order to remain in the UK with a student or Tier 4 visa.
Student visa attendance and engagement
ATAS
There are a number of UKVI regulations to which the University has to adhere.
Requirements

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/during-study/repeats-resits:
How your Student or Tier 4 visa status will be affected by repeating modules or resitting exams, and what your results mean.
The information on this page applies to you if you need to submit a repeat form to repeat modules or exams in the following academic year.
It doesn't apply to you if you are re-sitting exams in the August exam period, and may progress to the following academic year as standard.
If you're a taught student and you need to repeat modules, use our self-help tool to find out how this will affect your visa.
Repeat study self-help tool
If you need to formally repeat studies, whether for a semester or year, you should read the information online here (student login required) and complete an application form.
You should then receive further advice about how any repeat study period may impact on your visa status.
A repeat with attendance, or internal repeat, is where you repeat modules in full and attend classes in Sheffield again.
You need to pay tuition fees for internal repeat study.
A repeat without attendance, or external repeat, is where you resit exams only and will not attend classes.
You need to pay only a resit exams fee.
This section applies if you are repeating studies partway through your course and will be progressing to the next academic year after the repeat period.
This section applies if you are repeating studies from your final year, eg after your expected course end date.
You will complete your course after receiving your repeat results.
If you repeat externally during your visa "wrap-up" period (the time between the course end date and your visa expiry date), your visa will remain valid and can continue to be used until it expires.
As you are still a registered student you should keep to your term-time work conditions during this period.
In some cases, your current visa may cover your resit exams, for instance if you are a masters student resitting the autumn semester exams only and have a visa expiring in January.
If your current visa does not cover your resit exams then you will need to apply for a new visa, as below:
If you are:
...
the University will not issue a new CAS to cover this, so you will not be able to apply for a Student visa for this purpose.
To apply for the Graduate Immigration you must successfully complete your course and receive your final results before your Student visa expires.
If you have to repeat studies your eligibility for the Graduate visa may be impacted.
If you resit studies without attendance then you may be unlikely to receive your repeat results in time to apply for the Graduate visa before your current visa expires.
You should contact your department and ask when your repeat results will be released to check this.
If you apply for a new Student visa you must be sure that your new visa expiry date will be after your expected final results.
Even with a new Student visa you may not receive your final results in time to apply for the Graduate visa.
Before requesting a new CAS you should contact your department and ask when your repeat results will be released, and contact ISSAC if you are unsure if your new visa will cover this.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/after-studies:
Immigration advice and information if you have completed, or are about to complete, your studies at Sheffield.
General immigration information for once you've completed your studies, such as attending graduation and returning your BRP and police registration certificate.
After you've completed your studies
As an international student, you must apply for a visa if you wish to stay in the UK to work after your studies.
Working in the UK after your studies
Find information about how long after your studies you can get help from the ISSAC team.
Who we are and what we do

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/after-studies/information:
General immigration information on attending graduation and returning your BRP and police registration certificate once you’ve completed your studies.
You will be able to stay in the UK on your Student or Tier 4 visa to attend your graduation ceremony if:
If you have a Short-Term Student visa, and not a Student or Tier 4 visa, you'll need to leave the UK within 30 days of your course end date or before your visa expires, whichever date is earlier.
If the graduation ceremony is after this date, you're advised to return to the UK as a visitor to attend.
If you've had any change of status during your course that could affect the validity of your visa, you should refer to any immigration advice sent to you by International Student Support.
If you decide to leave the UK after you finish your course but wish to re-enter the UK on your Student or Tier 4 visa to attend your graduation ceremony, this should still be possible if your visa is still valid and covers the date of the ceremony.
You should request a certificate of student status (graduation attendance) from SSiD and carry this in your hand luggage when you travel back to the UK.
If the above does not apply to you, and you need to apply for a visitor visa to return for graduation, you should use the certificate of student status (graduation attendance) as a supporting document when applying for the visa.
South Yorkshire Police have now advised that it is no longer necessary for you to return your police registration certificate to them when you are leaving the UK.
UKVI now advise you to keep any previous BRPs you have held.
Using an expired BRP may help you when submitting a future visa application, as it may help you be able to use the UKVI ID check app and prevent you from needing to attend a biometric appointment at a visa application centre.
Previously, they advised you should return BRPs to them when they expired, but you are no longer required to do this unless they contact you specifically to ask you to do so.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/after-studies/working:
Following the publication of the immigration white paper (PDF, 2.3MB ) on Monday 12 May 2025, our advisers are currently working through the changes which are being proposed and will be updating the web pages below, when we have more detailed guidance and an implementation date for the proposed changes to the immigration rules.
Some of the information on the 'Work after Studies' pages will be subject to change, in particular the Skilled Worker Visa and the Graduate Immigration Route.
Contact ISSAC if you are due to be applying for a visa shortly and have a particular concern about your eligibility.
You do not need to apply for a visa if:
If you’re a citizen of the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland, you must apply for a work visa if you arrived in the UK after 31 December 2020 and you’re not eligible for the EU Settlement Scheme.
Always check the latest government visa guidance as immigration rules are subject to frequent changes.
On Wednesday afternoons we host a specialist 'Wednesday Work’ visa drop-in.
We suggest that students with post-study work visa questions come at this time if possible.
Details of where to find us .
Information about working after your studies on a Tier 4 or Student Visa.
Working after your studies on a student visa
How to apply for a Skilled Worker Visa to allow you to work in the UK after study.
Skilled worker visas
How to apply for a Health and Care Worker visa to allow you to work in the UK after study.
Health and care worker visas
How to apply for the Global Talent visa route if you want to work in the UK in a specific sector such as science, engineering, humanities, medicine, technology or arts and culture.
Global Talent visa route
Information about the UK government’s graduate work visa for international students with a Student or Tier 4 visa.
Graduate Immigration route
Basic information on temporary work visas for short-term work, training and work experience in the UK.
Temporary worker visas
Basic information about work visa routes which were announced for 2022.
Other work visas
For individual advice about post study work options, contact our International Student Support & Advice team.
We cannot check work visa application forms or advise potential employers.
Our Careers Service can help you understand the UK job market and make an informed decision about whether working in the UK is right for you and your career.
It advertises careers events and post-study work visa talks via Career Connect.
Contact the Careers Service (student login required)
GOV.UK: Other work routes
UKCISA Working After Studies
UK graduate labour market weekly updates
UKCISA: Recruiting international graduates employer guide
How to explain your visa status to employers (PDF, 144KB) - information on how to explain your visa and working rights to employers during and after study

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/new-students/international-students:
Information and advice for new and existing international students, from health and wellbeing to academic support.
Get ready for Sheffield by completing your to-do list tasks.
New international student checklist
Information and guidance on student visas and immigration.
Student visas and immigration
Take a look at our guide on what to know and what to pack for moving to the UK.
International student essentials
Advice and information if you're about to complete, or have completed, your studies at Sheffield.
Support for when my course ends
For information and advice about visas and immigration:
Contact International Student Support, Advice & Compliance
Global Campus is a programme of ongoing orientation that runs throughout the academic year so you can meet others and settle into University and Sheffield life.
If you're a current student or preparing to study with us, The English Language Teaching Centre offers a variety of English language courses, testing and services.
If you're a student at the International College, support is available.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/registration/international-students/dependants:
Information and guidance if you’re an international student and you’re bringing your family to the UK.
An outline of University-owned and private accommodation available to international students bringing their family to the UK.
Accommodation for families
What happens if you’re pregnant or your child is born in the UK, and information and advice on finding childcare and schools in the UK.
Children, pregnancy and schooling
How your dependants can access healthcare in the UK.
Healthcare for dependants
Information about family-friendly activities at the University and in Sheffield.
Social life
How to apply for a dependant visa and visitor visas if your family or friends want to visit you in the UK.
Dependant visas and visitors
Check if your dependants can work in the UK, and the types of work they can do on a Student Dependant visa.
Working in the UK as a dependant

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/new-students/protecting-yourself-scams-and-fraud:
Scams and fraud are the fastest growing form of crime, so you need to know how to protect yourself against them.
Read information and guidance in Mandarin | 原来这些情况都有可能是骗局！
A scam (fraud) can present itself in many ways, but it is usually designed to get hold of your money.
A scammer may contact you through a phone call or email and will often ask you to transfer money.
A scammer may call you and pretend to be from an official body such as:
The scammer will try to convince you that you need to transfer money to them, or ask you to pay in an unusual way such as through vouchers or via a transfer service.
They will sometimes already know details about you and can sound very convincing, and they may try to use information they know about you to make you feel threatened.
Never provide personal information or agree to transfer money, or purchase gift cards if someone calls you.
Official organisations would never ask you to do this.
Scams can also be online, and some are very sophisticated and hard to spot.
Some will offer investments or services which offer great returns.
When responding to job adverts or opportunities online, always do your research.
Be careful of online posts that offer a large amount of money - a scammer might ask you to allow them to transfer money to your bank account.
This is a form of fraud where the victim is set up to take the consequences and is often related to money laundering.
Never share bank or personal details with someone you don’t know and trust.
A scammer may be from your home country or in the UK.
They may take advantage of the fact that you may be new to a country, and unsure about how things work.
Scams may take the form of financial exploitation.
It's important to know what this is and how to avoid it
Financial exploitation
‘Sextortion' is a type of online blackmail where criminals threaten to share sexual pictures, videos, or information about you.
They may be trying to take money from you or force you to do something else you don’t want to.
Anyone can be a victim of sextortion, but people aged under 30 are often most at risk.
Advice to protect yourself from sexual extortion
The University has received reports that Chinese students are receiving phone calls from criminals pretending to be a Chinese police officer or official.
The fake police officers often present made up evidence to pressure students into giving them money.
If you are accused of a crime you did not commit: do not share any information, and do not send any money.
Students at a UK university have reported a seemingly legitimate website advertising jobs.
Criminals cloned a legitimate company's website, in order to trick people into believing the job opportunity was real.
Criminals pretend to offer a commission-based job, but demand that students pay money into an account first in order to receive payment.
Criminals may also pretend to be a 'mentor' who explains the process.
Always check the web URL address to ensure the websites you are browsing are legitimate.
Never transfer your money into someone's account who you do not trust.
We have been made aware of a recent scam, where fraudsters pretend to be members of University staff and call students to ask for their bank details.
What to look out for:
At a time of year when this type of scam is more common - around the time when Student Finance England administers maintenance loan payments - be extra careful with sharing your details.
University staff will never call you to ask for your bank details.
Occasionally, University staff may request details via your University of Sheffield email address.
If you receive a phone call or email and you're not sure if it's real, hang up or do not reply.
Then contact the Student Fees Team by calling  +44 114 222 9754 (option 3) or email payments@sheffield.ac.uk .
It is important to take steps to protect yourself from becoming a victim of a scam.
There are some useful websites which can help you identify scams and take action to protect yourself:
University guidance for protecting yourself online
Government guidance (Google Drive, PDF file)
Money Helper
Take 5 to stop fraud
UKCISA guidance on scams
Citizens Advice Bureau
If you wish to report a scam, go to the Action Fraud website or call Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
You can also report a scam anonymously to Crimestoppers, an independent charity.
Visit the Crimestoppers website , or call 0800 555 111 at any time, on any day.
If you fall victim to fraud and it's affecting you, your studies or your wellbeing, you can contact our welfare adviser at safeguardingandwelfare@sheffield.ac.uk .
You can also contact the Student Advice Centre email: advice@sheffield.ac.uk
It is not always possible to get your money back, and any financial help available from the University would be very limited.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/issac:
This page provides information on what the ISSAC team do, how to contact them, and how to provide feedback.
Get in touch with the ISSAC team.
Details of the help you can get from the International Student Support, Advice & Compliance (ISSAC) team, and who is on the team.
See the terms and conditions of using ISSAC's service, what you can expect from ISSAC and what they expect from you.
Terms and conditions
What other students have said about the ISSAC Team's service.
You can give your feedback here too.
What you say about us
How the ISSAC team stores and shares confidential information.
ISSAC Privacy Notice

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/issac/about:
The ISSAC team provides advice on a range of UK student-related immigration matters to:
Even in areas in which we specialise, there may be cases where it is necessary for the ISSAC team to refer you to external advice from a different organisation, in line with IAA requirements.
More information here .
In some of the above areas, there are other services or teams within the University that can provide assistance.
You can get in touch with us whichever way you prefer:
We will assess your query and then offer appropriate support to you.
In more complex or detailed cases we may offer you a remote appointment after assessing your query.
We do not routinely offer face-to-face appointments for checking visa applications but you can refer to the student visas and immigration webpages for in-depth guides.
Alternatively, you can contact us through live chat or email (webform) so that we can discuss your query.
We may not be able to resolve queries that you make on behalf of someone else, or that someone else makes on your behalf and we may only be able to provide you with general information in these situations.
If we cannot deal with your query by telephone, you will be asked to use our email webform to allow us to identify the best response for your needs.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/issac/contact:
If you can’t find the information you need on the website, or have further queries, you can contact the International Student Support, Advice & Compliance (ISSAC) team.
Before contacting the ISSAC team for advice and sharing any information with us, ensure that you have read and understood the terms and conditions of our service.
Our terms and conditions
You can find details of our team, and the help you can get from us, on the following page:
We are the ISSAC Team at the University of Sheffield, we are not the Sheffield Student Team at UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) .
Using the contact details on this page will not put you in touch with the Sheffield Student Team.
If you are a new student with a question about your offer or your CAS, these queries are dealt with by our Admissions Service.
Contact Admissions
If you have a question about tuition fees or how to pay them, refer to the information on this and how to contact the Student Fees and Funding Team .
If you have questions about registration on your course, refer to the information on registration and how to contact the Registry Team .
If you have visa related questions, see below.
We will not be available on the phone or live chat on Friday 29 August.
Sorry for any inconvenience this may cause.
Find us on Level 3, Students’ Union Building (next to SSiD).
Western Bank, Broomhall, Sheffield, S10 2TG.
No appointment needed.
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays: 10:00am to 12.30pm, 1:30pm to 4:30pm
On Wednesday afternoons we host a specialist 'Wednesday Work’ visa drop in.
Chat with us
Live chat is open Monday to Friday, 10am to 12pm and 2pm to 4pm.
Using live chat is the quickest way for your query to be dealt with.
If you click the link above outside these hours, you can email us and we will aim to respond within five working days.
When chat is live, you can also choose to send an email instead if you prefer, by clicking ‘Contact International Student Support’ after submitting the chat request.
Do not send your query more than once , doing this will cause delays for us to respond to your query.
+44 114 222 9679
ISSAC aims to be available to take telephone calls Monday to Friday between 10am to 12pm, and 2pm to 4pm.
See the ‘ Our team ’ section above for details on the types of queries ISSAC can and can’t help with.
Help us to improve our services by completing our feedback form .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/student-visas-immigration/visa-application/eu-students-brexit:
This page provides information on the EU Settlement Scheme for EU, EEA and Swiss students and their family members.
From 1 October 2021, some EU/EEA nationals will no longer be able to use their national ID card as evidence of identity to enter the UK.
You’ll still be able to use your ID card if one of the following applies to you:
Refer to the gov.uk webpage on entering the UK for more information:
Entering the UK (GOV.UK)
If none of the circumstances in the list above apply to you, you will need a valid passport to enter the UK.
You may also require a visa, depending on your circumstances.
See the section below under ‘New students’.
The deadline for making a first application under the EU Settlement Scheme was 30 June 2021, and in most cases applicants needed to be living in the UK before 23:00 GMT on 31 December 2020.
Both these deadlines have now passed.
There are a small number of exceptional circumstances where you could be eligible to make a first application for pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme (see the information under ‘ Pre-Settled Status ’ below), but in most cases new students from the EU, EEA or Switzerland will need either:
Making a Student Visa application Visitor and short-term student visas
It is not possible to enter the UK as a visitor and to obtain a Student visa inside the UK whilst you are here as a visitor.
The deadline for submitting a first application under the EU Settlement Scheme was 30 June 2021.
In most cases it is now only possible to make a successful application under the EU Settlement Scheme if:
If you think the last point applies to you, we would advise you to look at the following resources to check your eligibility and deadlines:
Citizens’ Advice Bureau - EU Settlement Scheme UKVI Information - Applying under the EU Settlement Scheme as a Family Member Otherwise, if you were living in the UK by 31 December 2020 and have missed this deadline, you have the right to submit a late application.
However, UKVI would have to accept that you have ‘reasonable grounds’ for being unable to apply by the 30 June 2021 deadline.
If you are intending to do this, you should contact the ISSAC team in the first instance.
As your situation may be complex, we may refer you to other sources of advice and support, such as settled.org.uk .
Settled.org.uk
The application is free of charge.
If you already have pre-settled status, UKVI will automatically extend your status shortly before it expires, and in some cases they may automatically convert pre-settled status to settled status.
There is more information on this in the next section.
However, this does not replace the requirement to maintain a continuous qualifying period, and our understanding is that UKVI may cancel pre-settled status for those that do not meet the requirements for settled status.
Refer to the GOV.UK web pages for more information:
Converting from pre-settled to settled status
In most cases, you must already have been granted pre-settled status under the EU Settlement scheme in order to apply for settled status.
You will be granted settled status or indefinite leave where:
A single period of absence for more than six months but not exceeding 12 months is permitted where it is for an important reason such as:
If your continuous qualifying period in the UK has been affected
If you’ve had any absences of 12 months or longer, we recommend seeking advice prior to making an application.
Any period of absence on compulsory military service is permitted.
Visit the page below for more information:
Home Office caseworker guidance
If you have previously been granted pre-settled status, you can only apply for settled status when you have completed five years' continuous residence in the UK.
For information on the types of evidence you can provide with your application, refer to:
Acceptable evidence of UK residence
UKVI have now also confirmed that they will soon start to automatically convert pre-settled status to settled status for those whose National Insurance records show continuous residence in the UK for five years or more.
If you have held continuous residence in the UK for five years or more, but have not been contacted by UKVI to confirm that your status has been automatically converted from pre-settled to settled, you do not need to wait until UKVI contact you and you can submit an application for settled status once you have reached five years' continuous residence.
You will need to provide evidence of your continuous residence for five years unless the National Insurance records UKVI use show five years' continuous residence or more when you are completing the application form online.
For more information on how this arrangement will work, refer to the following:
UKVI - Converting Pre-Settled to Settled Status
UKVI Policy Paper
For further information on how to apply, visit the page below:
Applying for the EU Settlement Scheme
We have also created a guide showing the questions you will need to answer on the EU Settlement Scheme application form:
Guide to EUSS questions (PDF, 1MB)
For information and tips on the application process from international students, visit the pages below:
If you have any further questions, contact ISSAC .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international/meet-our-students:
Here at the University of Sheffield we are proud to be home to students from all over the world.
Here you can read the experiences of some of our current students and graduates and find out more about their time living and studying in Sheffield.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international-summer-school/subject-pathways:
Pathways include: Designing towards sustainable regeneration, People Power: Protest & Social Change in 20th Century Britain, and Reflective leadership for successful teams.
More courses to be announced soon.
The Sheffield International Summer School is designed for inbound students not currently registered on full degree programmes at the University of Sheffield.
Whether you want to try out the University of Sheffield for future study or you simply want to have an amazing summer in the heart of the UK, the Sheffield International Summer School is for you.
We're 92nd in the world and15th in the UK (QS World University Rankings 2026) and number one in the Russell Group (based on aggregate responses) National Student Survey (NSS) 2025.
There are three subject pathways in the Sheffield International Summer School - one in the School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture, one in the School of History, Philosophy and Digital Humanities and one in the Management School.
Each course has been designed to explore key global issues and to develop the tools to tackle them, giving you the opportunity to develop a range of skills that you can use for your future studies and career.
More courses will be announced soon.
You’ll be taught by experts in their fields and have the chance to explore one of the greenest and friendliest cities in the UK.
There will be the chance to visit local points of interest and natural beauty including the Peak District and Chatsworth country house, as well as experiencing student life in Sheffield.
At the end of the Summer School you will be provided with a transcript confirming the module studied and grade awarded.
Students who successfully complete the course receive 10 University of Sheffield credits (5 ECTS).
Your home institution will be able to tell you if you are able to transfer the credit back.
Accommodation check in/check out dates:  tbc
This course introduces a diverse range of research-based design and design-oriented research approaches to sustainable regeneration, with a particular focus on the regenerative design and ecological regeneration of the British historic environment.
It will explore practical and philosophical debates within architectural, landscape and urban studies, addressing contemporary issues and employing complementary approaches that have recently been innovated by the core teaching team.
The tutors and lecturers are leading landscape architects, historians at the forefront of their field.
The aims of this module are:
Suitability: This course is suitable for students studying in the fields of Architecture and Landscape Architecture as well as areas such as Urban Studies and Planning.
Teaching: Combination of lectures, tutorials, seminars and fieldwork.
Additional activity: Field trip to York to explore the historic architecture and infrastructure of the city.
Assessment: Micro-studio design project
In this module you will develop an understanding of Britain’s social, political and cultural history in the twentieth century.
You will learn about the various groups that sought to challenge the status quo and how this changed the lives of British people.
You will discover how women campaigned for the vote before the First World War, and how they sought economic, social and sexual liberation in the second half of the twentieth century.
You will learn about how workers fought against social inequalities, and how the state evolved to provide a minimum standard of living.
You will also look at youth movements and cultural awakenings and about the experience of migrant groups through a period distinguished by decolonisation and racial divisions.
Suitability: Open to students from all academic backgrounds
Teaching: Lectures and seminars
Assessment: Reflective presentation and written coursework
This course aims to develop students into effective and valuable team players and leaders through practical exercises and self-reflection.
It provides a strong foundation in leadership and teamwork theories, an understanding of factors that contribute to effective leadership and teamwork.
Students strengthen their self-awareness for their behaviour as leaders and team members, ultimately leading to an improvement of skills in both areas.
Teaching: Lectures, tutorials and group work
Assessment: Combination of reflective written coursework and group presentations
Outbound summer schools for current students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international-summer-school/applying:
The Sheffield International Summer School is for designed for inbound students not currently registered on full degree programmes at the University of Sheffield.
Experience studying in the UK with our short-term, two week programme designed for international students.
Students must be registered at another university and be achieving an equivalent of UK 2:2 (50%) or US GPA 2.7 .
First year students who do not yet have grades should provide a transcript confirming the modules they're enrolled on and an academic reference.
All students will need to provide an up to date transcript as part of the application.
Students not from a majority English speaking country must be able to provide evidence of having English language at the following level: IELTS 6.0 (minimum sub-test of 5.5) or equivalent.
You must provide a document from our list of accepted qualifications .
Students from majority English speaking countries do not need to provide an official English language qualification but must upload their most recent university transcript to confirm they are studying in English.
In addition to the list above, we can accept the College English Test 6 with a score of 425 for students coming from Chinese universities providing it was taken within 2 years of applying.
We will also accept the Duolingo English test with an overall score of 105 (95 in each component).
Students from exchange partner universities can get confirmation from their home universities of their English language level if they have been nominated by the university.
If you cannot be nominated by your home university, you will need to provide evidence of English language.
All fees include tuition, accommodation, optional airport pick-up from Manchester Airport and a package of social events.
Most students entering the UK for less than six months can enter using a Visitor Visa (as opposed to a Student Visa), if you're a non-visa national, you don't need a Visitor visa before traveling but may need an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) View our guidance and information on visitor and short term visas .
The University of Sheffield reserves the right to cancel the summer school for reasons including, but not restricted to, low enrolment numbers and teacher availability.
In such instances, participants will be informed by email.
Please bear this in mind when making travel arrangements.
Any expenses made other than summer school fee (and deposit), will not be reimbursed.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international-summer-school/accommodation:
A place in our accommodation is guaranteed and it’s included in the price of your Summer School.
Students will be staying in St Vincent’s Place, all rooms are single occupancy with an en-suite.
You’ll have access to a common room complete with pool and ping pong tables as well as a communal kitchen, music and cinema rooms for when you want to relax.
Located in the heart of the city, you can explore the hidden spots and our bustling city centre and find out what makes Sheffield so great for students.
Take a virtual tour of the the kind of room you can expect and the rest of the facilities, including a laundry room and study space.
All accommodation is self-catered and will be reserved for you as part of your summer school package.
Accommodation check in/check out dates: tbc
Course dates: tbc

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international-summer-school/social-activities:
Sheffield is located in the heart of the UK - it’s a modern city with everything you need and more, from indoor food halls to museums and theatres there’s something for everyone.
The Peak District National Park is on our doorstep so if you love to hike, mountain climb or cycle you’ll be able to do it looking at the most incredible views.
We’ve planned an exciting variety of events to help you explore Sheffield and connect with your classmates, ensuring you make the most of your time outside the classroom.
From sampling Sheffield’s vibrant food scene to uncovering the city's hidden treasures, there’s something for everyone!
Below are examples of the types of activities we’ll be running for our summer school students this year.
A finalised schedule of social events will be shared with all attendees prior to the start of their session.
A timetable of activities will be provided nearer the time.
As part of your summer school we will be taking you on:
A range of optional activities include:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/international-summer-school/contact-us:
If you have any questions please email summer@sheffield.ac.uk
Visit our entry requirements and applying page to find out more.
Current University of Sheffield students can view outbound Summer School information on the Student Hub (log in required).
We will be running a series of online information sessions on the below dates:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/funding/not-taking-out-student-loan:
The UK government offers eligible undergraduate students a tuition fee loan and maintenance loan for each year of study.
For students from England starting their studies from September 2023 onwards, the interest rate will be based on the Retail Price Index (RPI).
Students from devolved nations should see their local agency websites for more details.
The UK government offers loans to eligible taught and research postgraduate students.
These loans are a contribution towards tuition fees and/or living costs.
Read more about postgraduate loans , postgraduate masters scholarships , PhD loans and PhD scholarships .
It is really important to consider your funding options if you do not wish to take out a student loan, in order to ensure that you can pay your tuition fees and living costs .
Some elements of government student finance are not repayable and depend on your personal circumstances.
These include supplementary grants for dependents or disability-related course costs.
If you are assessed for support by Student Finance Wales, you may qualify for a non-repayable maintenance grant.
You will usually need to apply for student finance to receive this support, although you are not obliged to take any of the loans that they offer (you can apply for a £0 loan).
Please visit your local agency website for more details.
If you are entitled to claim welfare benefits as a student, the office assessing your benefit claim may assume you have taken your UK government student finance loan entitlement and reduce your benefit entitlement accordingly.
Check with your relevant local Citizens Advice for more information.
Citizens Advice
If you are a prospective student with an offer or a current student, you may also wish to speak with someone from the Student Advice Centre .
You can also refer to the advice that they provide online.
Student Advice Centre - Benefits and Tax Credits
Most UK banks offer student accounts for undergraduates who have a maintenance loan.
These accounts are interest free, up to a specified limit and dependent on your credit history.
The bank may want to see evidence of your maintenance loan before opening an account.
More information about alternative sources of funding can be found on our web pages.
Undergraduate study - additional funding
Postgraduate study - additional funding
You may still be eligible for University bursaries, scholarships and fee discounts.
However, in order to be assessed for University support, you do need to apply to Student Finance England (or equivalent national agency), although you are not obliged to take any loans they offer (you can apply for £0 loan).
To be eligible for the main University bursaries and ESS, which are especially designed to support undergraduate students from a widening participation background, we will need confirmation of your household income.
If you do not wish to take out a loan, you can still apply for a household income assessment to be carried out by Student Finance England (or equivalent regional funding body) and request a £0 loan - this allows us to assess your eligibility for either scheme without you receiving any loan.
University of Sheffield Bursary Scheme
If you are experiencing financial difficulties once you have started your studies due to unforeseen costs , then you may be eligible to apply for additional support via the University support fund.
Apply to the Financial Support Fund (student login required)
Deciding whether to take out a student loan can be a confusing time for Muslim students due to differing financial rulings in Islam regarding the matter of riba (interest) in loans.
Here is some information for you which we hope may help you make your decision.
Shaykh Haitham al-Haddad as well as a number of other scholars and fatwa organisations of the UK and Europe (including the European Council for Fatwa and Research) gave the ruling that it is permissible for Muslim students to take the Student Finance university fee loan, and that there is no interest involved when one does so.
This also applies to taking the maintenance loan.
This ruling applies regardless of whether one pays back the ‘loan’ later on or not.
In neither case is interest involved, and it is therefore permissible for everyone to take the loan, even if they have plenty of money to cover their studies.
Fettah, Zahed
On Sh Haitham's Student 'Loans' Fatwa, Islam21c .
5 May 2016, (accessed 13 June 2023).
The government has published information about providing shari’ah-compliant alternative funding in future and written a blog post for parents and prospective students on alternative student finance.
As and when the government makes any changes and provides shari'ah-compliant alternatives to the existing student loans in future, we will include more information on this web page.
Some Muslim students may wish to avoid loans altogether so you may be advised to investigate alternatives, such as: interest-free loans from Islamic banks; private trusts; looking for part-time work; or utilising family resources.
Some banks offer shari'ah-compliant accounts and loans.
Some financial institutions have shari'ah-compliant financial services.
They guarantee that money held in these accounts is not invested in industries such as gambling, alcohol or weapons manufacture.
The University of Sheffield is a preferred partner of the Aziz Foundation, a charity that offers 100% tuition fee masters scholarships to British Muslim students studying at UK universities.
For more information about the scholarship programme and how to apply, please visit our web page.
The Aziz Foundation Scholarship
If you are a Muslim student and have secured your main source of funding for your studies, you may be eligible for some additional financial help from the National Zakat Foundation.
Find out if you are eligible and what you might receive on the National Zakat Foundation website .
If you have any questions or would like to discuss this with a religious adviser, please contact Ameena Blake, Muslim Chaplain, via email: ameena.blake@sheffield.ac.uk .
Belief, No Belief and Religious (BNBR) Life Centre - Find a chaplain/adviser
If you have concerns about the level of funding available to you and how you can manage your budget, you can make an appointment with a Money Adviser in the Student Advice Centre .
Both prospective students with an offer and current students can seek advice.
You can email advice@sheffield.ac.uk or visit in person on Level 3 of the Students’ Union.
Careers and Employability Service

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/new-students/tuition-fees/fees-faqs:
Answers to common questions about tuition fees, accommodation fees and reassessment administration charges.
In the event that your query is not answered below, the University is unable to discuss details about a student's circumstances with third parties (such as parents, guardians or partners) unless written authorisation is provided.
To update your direct debit bank account details for future payments:
You can't change your direct debit if you're within 10 working days of your payment date.
Follow the instructions below to update your card details for future payments.
The email address you need to enter is the cardholder's email address you provided (you receive payment receipt emails to this email address).
You will be required to input the details of the card that you wish to use for all future payments to the University.
For your security, do not provide card details in an email.
The final screen will show "Update complete" - you won't receive an email confirmation of the update.
You can update your card details at the 'Student Fee Payments' section of our Make an online payment web page.
This service only updates your payment card details.
To learn how to update your address and other personal information, visit: Your student record (student login required) .
For payment methods, see the 'Student Fee Payments' section of our Make an online payment web page.
We are unable to accept cash payments.
If you have forgotten which payment method you selected for your accommodation fees, contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
If you're living in University-owned accommodation, our Accommodation Fees Guide 2024-25 has information about this.
If you live in private accommodation, you need to discuss this with your accommodation provider.
If you can't pay your accommodation fees on the agreed instalment dates as per your accommodation contract (eg due to a delay in receiving student finance), contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
Contact the Student Fees and Funding team for queries about the amount you need to pay for your accommodation fees.
Accommodation deposits are refunded once you've left your room and it's been inspected for damages.
This is usually six to eight weeks after the end of your contract.
You must provide your deposit refund details so that we can return your deposit.
To do this:
This portal is only available between April and July.
Email the Accommodation Office at accommodationoffice@sheffield.ac.uk for queries regarding your accommodation contract.
More information about our accommodation policies
For any further questions about your accommodation fees, contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
Before you pay your tuition fees, make sure to read our important information .
If you're a new student, you can pay your fee during pre-registration.
If you're a continuing student, you can pay as part of online registration in MUSE.
You need to enter the cardholder's email address you provided (you will receive payment receipt emails to this email address).
You'll be required to input the details of the card that you wish to use for all future payments to the University.
For information on how to update your address and other personal information, visit: Your student record (student login required) .
For payment methods, refer to the 'Student Fee Payments' section of our Make an online payment web page.
We can assist with the payment dates if:
If you require an extension on your payment date and are able to make payment within the same month, contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
If you require an extension for a longer period, the University may be able to offer you a personal payment plan .
If you have forgotten which payment method you selected for your tuition fees, contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
Visit our web pages for more information:
If you have further questions about your tuition fees, contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
If your sponsor is paying your tuition fee, you can upload your sponsor letter here .
We’ll then forward an invoice to your sponsor.
Information for sponsored students
If you’re a registered student, you can request a tuition fee summary document from SSiD (student login required) .
Follow the steps below to log back into online registration and arrange a fee payment:
Information for temporarily registered students
For information on this, visit our tuition fees pages (student login required) .
Unfortunately, we can't provide the University bank details.
You should follow the payment instructions on our payment web pages and use the proposed payment methods only.
For more information on paying your fees and possible payment methods, visit the relevant page:
When you make a card payment, we’ll send a receipt by email to the cardholder to confirm the payment has been successful.
We’ll automatically update your student record when we receive your payment.
If you've paid using our payment partner Flywire, their Help Centre provides information on how to track your payment and download a receipt .
If you've paid via our payment partner Convera, you can track your payment quoting your EGBUN reference number .
For both payment providers, if they state that payment has been sent to us, we'll automatically update your student record when we receive your payment (it can take up to five days to receive a bank transfer payment).
You can request a receipt on our ' Request a tuition fee payment receipt ' web page (student login required).
For any further questions about your tuition fees, contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
For payment methods, refer to the 'Student Fee Payments' section of our Make an online payment web page.
It is important that you make payment of your tuition, accommodation and other fees on the due dates.
If you cannot make payment on time, you need to keep us updated.
If you can't pay your accommodation fees on the agreed instalment dates as per your accommodation contract (eg due to a delay in receiving Student Finance), contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
If any fees remain unpaid, the University will contact you on a regular basis either by phone or email.
We also have third parties who assist us with the collection of outstanding fees and who may contact you on our behalf.
In the unlikely event that a balance remains, the University may seek legal advice and action to assist with payment collection.
Exam reassessment charges are charged per module (where the result outcome of your module is "Fail - F" or "Not Completed - NC".
For more information on reassessment charges and how to pay them, visit: Resits and reassessments (student login required) .
Exams information (student login required)
For repeating modules internally, we calculate your full annual fee based on the number of credits you’ll be repeating.
For more information and example amounts, visit: Internal repeat year fees (student login required) .
For any further questions, contact the Exams team .
If you're due a refund for tuition or accommodation fees, contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
You should allow three to five working days for a card refund to reach you from the date of processing.
Refunds to non-UK bank accounts can take seven to ten working days.
If you're expecting a refund for an overpayment of tuition or accommodation fees and these time frames have passed, contact the Student Fees and Funding team .
It's important to keep your funding body informed if you're taking leave from your studies.
When you fill out a change of status form, the Student Registry will inform SFE of this.
For more information about how this will affect your funding and eligibility for support, contact Student Finance .
Read our refund policy .
You won't be refunded if your period of leave ends in the same academic year as it started.
Your withdrawal may affect your fees, depending on when you are withdrawing.
Read our refund policy for more information .
If you have paid by debit card, credit card or bank transfer, the refund will be sent back to the same account.
You can repay your bursary /scholarship at our Make an online payment web page.
An overpayment of bursary, scholarship or stipend may have happened as a result of you taking a leave of absence or withdrawing from the University.
It may also be due to a change in your circumstances.
If you don't understand why the overpayment has occurred, contact the Student Fees and Funding team at financialhelp@sheffield.ac.uk
You can also contact the Student Fees and Funding team by phone: +44 114 222 9754 (Monday to Friday)
Information on taking a leave of absence (student login required)
We will need to make sure that you
We can still confirm your attendance to the Student Loans company (SLC) if you are temporarily registered.
When you have completed your registration, we need to check if we have confirmed to SLC that you are attending.
Speak to a member of the fees team for us to check this.
You will usually be paid your maintenance loan:
You can change this up until your course start date by
After your course start date, you'll need to request that we ask SFE to change your details.
Fill in this contact form , including the below information:
We can't advise you on whether you're eligible.
You will need to contact Student Finance directly for confirmation.
Applications to Student Finance England (SFE) open around February for the upcoming academic year.
You should make sure that you submit your application well before the academic year starts, to allow time for SFE to process it.
This may be to do with a change of fee or course.
Student Finance needs to be aware of this.
Try to get specific detail about what SFE is requesting so that we can try to include all the required information.
The Student Advice Centre , based in the Students' Union building, can help you with applications to Student Finance and offer advice on how to fund tuition fees.
As an external student, you aren't in attendance, so you aren't eligible for a maintenance loan.
Check the government advice on contacting Student Finance .
You will be paid your postgraduate loan directly from Student Finance England, so you will be classed as a self-sponsored student for fee-related purposes.
You'll have the option to set up a three-instalment payment plan, which will coincide with the loan payment dates.
This can be done online during pre-registration or online registration.
Student fee payments
Contact us about fees and funding

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/study/fee-status:
If your fee status is not clear from the information provided in your application, our Admissions Service will write to you to ask for more information.
We will do this after we have decided whether or not to offer you a place.
Please note that a ruling on your fee status is independent from the academic decision to offer you a place.
If the information provided in your application clearly indicates a particular fee status, we will not write to you.
However, even if we do not contact you before you arrive at the University, your fee status may still be in question, and you may be asked to provide further information during the registration process.
It is important to raise any queries relating to your fee status before you complete your registration at the University.
Fee status is only changed part way through a course in a minority of cases, and for a specific and limited list of reasons.
If we have not written to you, and you wish to query your fee status, please contact us and ask for a formal ruling.
When your status has been formally established, this will be reflected in your University record.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/funding/masters-loans:
Government loans are available for eligible home fee-paying postgraduate taught students to help fund your studies.
Students from the devolved nations can find out more information from the websites below :
Eligible home fee-paying students can apply for a postgraduate masters loan from the UK government to help fund their studies.
You will not be able to get a postgraduate masters loan if you already have a masters degree, or a qualification that is equivalent or higher.
Your course must be worth at least 180 credits at an eligible university or college in the UK.
Courses can be full time (lasting 1 or 2 academic years) or part time (lasting 2 to 4 academic years - no more than twice the length of the equivalent full-time course).
Masters courses that are currently funded by the undergraduate support system, such as integrated masters, full-time postgraduate pre-registration healthcare courses, and full-time Masters of Architecture, will not be eligible and neither will other postgraduate qualifications that do not result in a masters qualification, such as a postgraduate certificate or diploma.
You cannot get a postgraduate masters loan if you are eligible for an NHS Bursary or receive a Social Work Bursary (unless you only get a Placement Travel Allowance); the exception to this is the Masters Degree in Physician Associate Studies.
Gov.uk - Masters loan - Eligibility
If you're not sure whether your course is eligible, you should contact the Student Fees (Records) Team .
The postgraduate masters loan is intended to be a contribution towards the costs of studying a postgraduate masters course.
You can choose to use it towards your course fees and/or living costs.
If you are starting your course in the academic year 2025-2026, you can borrow up to £12,858.
If your course lasts for more than a year, the loan will be divided equally across each year of your course.
Any student using a postgraduate masters loan from the UK government to pay or contribute towards their tuition fee will be able to pay their tuition fes in three instalments.
Find out more about paying your tuition fee as a postgraduate taught student.
Repeat years of study will generally not be funded (even where a previous postgraduate course was not completed, or less than the maximum loan amount was requested).
A repeat year will only be funded where there is proof of compelling personal reasons for repeating an academic year, eg illness or bereavement.
The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) may take account of the loan when working out any benefits you receive.
If you would like further guidance on the loan's impact on any benefits you receive, contact the Student Advice Centre in the Students' Union.
You only need to apply once for a postgraduate masters loan for your course.
Gov.uk - Masters loan - How to apply
Loan repayments will usually commence from the April after course completion at the earliest and only when your income is over the repayment threshold set by the government: this is currently £21,000 a year for postgraduate loan repayment plans.
The masters loan repayment will be calculated at 6% of income above the repayment threshold.
Your postgraduate masters loan will be written off 30 years after the April you were first due to repay.
Northern Ireland - Student Finance Northern Ireland - Disabled Students' Allowance
Scotland - Student Awards Agency Scotland - Disabled Students' Allowance
More information about the support available for disabled students at The University of Sheffield can be found on the Disability and Dyslexia Support Service (DDSS) web pages.
For more information about paying your tuition fees as a postgraduate masters student using a masters loan, refer to our web pages.
Tuition fee information for postgraduate taught home students
Additional funding for postgraduate study
Postgraduate taught course tuition fees

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/funding/home:
The University of Sheffield offers a range of scholarships to home fee-paying students.
These scholarships offer financial and professional support to British Muslims who are dedicated to bringing positive change to society.
Scholarships are awarded to UK individuals with career aspirations in arts and culture, law, media and journalism, policy (excluding health policy), sports, sustainability and the environment, technology, or philanthropy and grantmaking.
Successful applicants will receive a full scholarship for their tuition fees and access to a programme of training days and career mentors via Aziz Scholarships Plus and the Aziz Scholars Association.
Find out more about the Aziz Foundation Scholarships
The University of Sheffield is offering two scholarships for home fee-paying students starting a taught postgraduate course in the School of Law in 2025.
The successful applicants will have the £10,000 award paid towards their tuition fees.
These scholarships are for students who meet at least one of our widening participation criteria.
Find out more about the Leaders in Law - School of Law Postgraduate Scholarships
The University of Sheffield is offering one scholarship to a home fee-paying student joining the Business and Organisational Psychology MSc in September 2025.
The successful applicant will have the £5,000 award paid towards their tuition fees.
This scholarship is for a student who meets at least one of our widening participation criteria.
Find out more about the Peter Warr Postgraduate Scholarship
The University of Sheffield is offering two scholarships for home fee-paying students starting an eligible taught postgraduate course in the Neuroscience Institute in 2025.
Find out more about the Scott & Caroline Beaumont - Neuroscience Postgraduate Scholarships
The University of Sheffield is offering two scholarships for home fee-paying students starting one of two eligible taught postgraduate courses within the School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering in 2025.
Find out more about the SSE Richard Walton Postgraduate Scholarships
The University of Sheffield is offering two scholarships for home fee-paying students starting a taught postgraduate course in the School of English in 2025.
Find out more about the Ragdoll - School of English Postgraduate Scholarships
Postgraduate masters loans

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/funding/additional:
Information about additional funding opportunities for postgraduate students.
If you are a prospective student, make sure you’ve visited our postgraduate funding hubs, which include signposting to information about government loans and support, alumni discount, scholarships and funding for international students.
PhD study ​​​​
The University Careers and Employability Service runs the Employability & Placements Hub based in the Students’ Union and advertises a range of employment opportunities on Career Connect, the University’s job board.
Current students who have worries about affording formal clothing for upcoming job interviews, assessment centres, or a new job can get a free referral to The Suit Works, a Sheffield not-for-profit organisation that offers free outfits from their huge range of pre-loved formal wear, with clothes for all shapes, sizes, and tastes.
If you are a prospective student, please refer to the postgraduate funding hubs for signposting to information about government loans and support, alumni discount, scholarships and funding for international students.
However, there is some additional funding available to eligible current students, including:
Postgraduate funding

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/courses/2025/midwifery-msc:
School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery,

                  Faculty of Health
This master’s course will empower you to become a highly skilled, autonomous midwife.
You will learn how to support, advise, and advocate for women, birthing individuals, their partners, and their families, by providing evidence-based care throughout pregnancy, childbirth and the postpartum period.
The three-year programme is led by experienced midwives, healthcare professionals, and academics, who will introduce you to key topics and the latest research in midwifery - from public health to infant feeding - and support you in developing your practical skills.
Alongside your studies on campus, you’ll spend half of your time on clinical placement in NHS Trusts across Barnsley, Chesterfield, Doncaster, Rotherham and Sheffield.
You’ll work a variety of shifts covering a 24/7 period to experience the diversity of maternity care services, in a range of settings, all under the guidance of a Practice Supervisor.
We are the first university to embed the latest NHS continuity of care guidance into our placements.
This means you will get to know the women and birthing individuals under your care, building a caseload of individuals and following them through their pregnancy and postpartum journey.
The University of Sheffield course has a strong focus on leadership and professional development.
We are currently the only university to fully integrate the Professional Midwifery Advocate (PMA) course into our teaching.
This means that following successful registration as a midwife, you will be qualified for PMA roles that come with additional supervision, support and staff development responsibilities.
In addition, our ‘Preparing to Prescribe’ training will give you the knowledge needed to pursue a non-medical prescribing qualification once you are registered as a midwife.
This course is accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
It will give you the knowledge, skills and experience you need to join the NMC register and practise as a midwife.
It also qualifies you to work as a Professional Midwifery Advocate.
The content of this course meets the UNICEF-UK Baby Friendly Initiative Standards.
Foundations of Evidence Based Midwifery Practice This module aims to develop your skills of research critique to enable you to critically discuss research findings and lessons from data and reports.
This will enable you to develop the skills and confidence to promote and inform best midwifery practice, and to advocate and support women when making informed decisions.
This module will introduce you to key principles behind evidence-based practice, including its relevance, the role that research plays within it, how to determine which methods are suitable for different problems and the outcome measures you will encounter.
You will also develop your ability to examine, interpret and present real-world midwifery and health care data to explain the robustness of the approach taken 15 credits Introduction to Professional Midwifery Practice During this module students will develop knowledge of the underlying concepts of the midwife's role in optimising normal physiological processes and providing women-centred care in the preconception and antenatal and the postnatal periods, and throughout normal labour and birth.
Students will develop knowledge and skills to support women and their families with psychosocial, cultural and spiritual needs during the intrapartum and postnatal period including links to continuity of carer..
This will provide the information required to undertake safe and effective practice and to work in partnership with women, enabling their views, preferences, and decisions to be heard, and helping to strengthen their capabilities.
15 credits Introduction to concepts of Public Health in Childbearing.
The aim of this module is to introduce you to the key concepts of public health, health promotion and health prevention within current midwifery practice.
You will explore the role of public health on a local, national and global level.
You will be introduced to the skills and knowledge about health and wellbeing for the individual, the family and the population.
Included in this module will be an introduction to infant feeding and the role of the midwife in infant feeding.
15 credits
This module aims to develop your skills of research critique to enable you to critically discuss research findings and lessons from data and reports.
You will also develop your ability to examine, interpret and present real-world midwifery and health care data to explain the robustness of the approach taken
During this module students will develop knowledge of the underlying concepts of the midwife's role in optimising normal physiological processes and providing women-centred care in the preconception and antenatal and the postnatal periods, and throughout normal labour and birth.
Professional Midwifery Practice - the Midwife as a Leader This module introduces you to the key concepts of leadership in healthcare, and will encourage you to reflect on the skills, knowledge and behaviours you need to develop to become a future leader of the midwifery profession.
Discussions will focus on developing your knowledge, skills and attitudes required for effective leadership, as well as the key theories of leadership and how these relate to personal development, clinical practice and the business of healthcare.
The knowledge, skills and attitudes required to lead others in healthcare practice, as well as the key theories of leadership and how these relate to leading a team in an aspect of healthcare will be discussed.
30 credits Management of complex care and emergencies during pregnancy and childbirth The aim of this module is to develop and critically apply the necessary knowledge, understanding and skills required in the management of complications and emergencies that occur in both mother and baby during childbirth.
During this module you will learn to critically examine and assess the research and evidence-based care and apply principles of good practice to the care of women with complex needs.
There will be an emphasis on early recognition and appropriate management of the emergency incorporating policies and guidelines, the midwife's role, and the importance of prompt escalation and effective communication with the interdisciplinary and multiagency team and the woman and her family around the time of the emergency.
15 credits Developing concepts of public health for women and infants with complex and additional needs The aim of this module is to enable you to develop your knowledge and understanding of, as well as critically analyse the impact of psychosocial and emotional complications in childbearing on the mother and infant, whilst also considering the wider implications for their families, communities and society as a whole.
Problems which can arise during infant feeding will also be explored.
This module introduces you to the key concepts of leadership in healthcare, and will encourage you to reflect on the skills, knowledge and behaviours you need to develop to become a future leader of the midwifery profession.
The aim of this module is to develop and critically apply the necessary knowledge, understanding and skills required in the management of complications and emergencies that occur in both mother and baby during childbirth.
The aim of this module is to enable you to develop your knowledge and understanding of, as well as critically analyse the impact of psychosocial and emotional complications in childbearing on the mother and infant, whilst also considering the wider implications for their families, communities and society as a whole.
Professional Midwifery Practice - transition from student to qualified midwife This module aims to consolidate your academic evidence based learning and clinical experiences from years 1 and 2 in order to ease the transition into clinical practice as a registrant.
You will demonstrate your comprehensive knowledge of clinical and leadership skills required to support all women and families through their childbirth experience.
This module will include a leadership elective placement to help facilitate consolidation of leadership skills.
As part of your transition from student to qualified registrant, you will be able to identify the importance of self-care and recognising vulnerability in colleagues.
You will also complete the NMC 2018 Practice Supervisor training and be Newborn and Infant Physical Examination (NIPE) screening ready upon qualifying.
30 credits Management of Public Health and Infant Feeding This module will focus on the leadership role within Public Health and Infant feeding focusing on decision making to improve outcomes through changes implemented in practice.
It aims to ensure that future generations of Midwifery health professionals are enabled to incorporate Public Health, Health Promotion, Health Prevention and Baby Friendly Standards into their everyday practice.
You will consolidate and critically apply the knowledge and skills learnt over the last 2 years, to demonstrate your understanding of the assessments, leadership and practical skills in the fields of Public Health and Infant Feeding.
15 credits Research Skills for professional midwifery practice This module will advance students' knowledge of research methods and data analysis approaches relevant to midwifery practice culminating in the development of a research proposal in an area of midwifery that is of particular interest to the student.
The module aims to provide a logical and systematic overview of the research process and includes sections on developing a research question/hypothesis, choosing appropriate study designs, sampling frames, data collection, and analysis approaches.
The module covers quantitative, qualitative and mixed methods using examples from midwifery research to illustrate core concepts.
The student will then choose one of these methods for their research proposal.
Principles of the midwife as a scholar and a leader will be explored as well as demonstrating how developing knowledge and skills in research and innovation can help to shape the future of midwifery through the development of evidenced-based care for women and their families.
This module aims to consolidate your academic evidence based learning and clinical experiences from years 1 and 2 in order to ease the transition into clinical practice as a registrant.
This module will focus on the leadership role within Public Health and Infant feeding focusing on decision making to improve outcomes through changes implemented in practice.
This module will advance students' knowledge of research methods and data analysis approaches relevant to midwifery practice culminating in the development of a research proposal in an area of midwifery that is of particular interest to the student.
An open day gives you the best opportunity to hear first-hand from our current students and staff about our courses.
Join us on campus on Thursday 8 May.
You'll get hands-on with clinical skills, speak to the midwifery team and current students and learn more about the course.
3 years full-time
This programme is made up of 50 per cent theory and 50 per cent practice.
You will learn through a combination of lectures, seminars, group and individual tutorials, clinical skills workshops, clinical placements, and independent learning and reflection.
Practical sessions include high-fidelity patient simulation training and supervised clinical skills training, which you will record as part of your portfolio.
You may also learn from guest speakers, such as bereavement charities, service users and carers, as well as patient stories, narratives and reports.
You will be assessed through exams, essays, task-based assignments, presentations, clinical skills and a clinical practice portfolio.
Career prospects as a registered midwife are excellent.
As a registered midwife, you will be in the unique position to provide personalised care to women, birthing individuals and their families from conception, antenatally, during labour to the postnatal period.
This privilege can make a positive societal impact.
As a skilled and competent practitioner, you will support women in making decisions about their care within a multidisciplinary team using research and evidence-based knowledge to maintain safety and respect.
Our graduates can go on to work in the NHS, but others may choose to find positions overseas, in private practice, in social services, the pharmaceutical industry, research or in specialist areas such as drug rehabilitation.
You will be prepared for roles including midwifery manager, consultant midwife, practice development midwife, or specialist clinical midwife.
The School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery sits in the Faculty of Health and brings together expertise from across human communication sciences, nursing and midwifery, pharmacy, and orthoptics.
We aim to train compassionate, resilient and highly skilled healthcare professionals and support them throughout their working lives.
We work closely with organisations such as the Royal College of Nursing, the Department of Health and Social Care, The General Pharmaceutical Council, and the Health and Care Professions Council to make sure our teaching meets the needs of the NHS workforce.
This means that we're ideally placed to offer you high-quality courses and apprenticeships, informed by the latest health-related research.
Our Clinical Skills Centre is based at the Northern General Hospital, one of the largest hospitals in the country.
The centre contains mock clinical wards, resuscitation suites, simulated theatres and teaching rooms with high-fidelity patient simulation training – a perfect facility for training the midwives of tomorrow.
Mum of three, Kay, has seen first-hand the care and support that midwives offer to parents and their families.
After 20 years away, she’s returned to university life to pursue her dream of becoming a midwife.
Self-professed lover of learning, Isabel, returned to university after working in a fast-paced hospital environment to train as a midwife.
After completing her undergraduate degree at Sheffield, Stephanie took some time to reflect on her career aspirations, ultimately returning to the University to train as a midwife.
Minimum 2:1 undergraduate honours degree in a related subject.
A minimum grade of 4/C in GCSE Maths, English Language and Science is also required.
This course does not accept international students.
4/C in GCSE Maths.
If you are infected with hepatitis C or HIV, or if you have a disability, medical condition or learning difficulty, including dyslexia, you must disclose this on your UCAS form.
All potential students with significant support needs will be individually assessed to ensure that the University is able to support them on the course.
All new students will undergo health screenings known as an Occupational Health Check, which may require an individual assessment.
This is to ensure that you meet the fitness to practise standards detailed on the Higher Education Occupational Practitioners (HEOPS) guidance and is in accordance with the Department of Health National Guidelines .
Occupational Health Checks
We offer support to students with additional needs, for example, through the Disability and Dyslexia Support Service or Student and Academic Services .
You can find out more about the network of support services we provide.
A very small number of conditions might, on health and safety grounds, affect your registration with the appropriate regulatory body and your ability to practise in certain clinical situations.
All applicants who are offered and accept a place on this course are required to undergo a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Enhanced Disclosure check in order to study with us.
DBS checks
Applicants that are successful in our initial shortlisting process will be invited to an interview.
You'll be able to choose from one of the following interview days in 2025:
If you are unable to attend one of these interview dates, or you apply later on in the year, we will contact you directly to arrange an interview at a suitable time.
You'll receive an occupational health screening, immunisations and a DBS check on our professional programmes.
These will be covered by your tuition fee.
We recommend that you subscribe to the DBS update service within 30 days of your disclosure being issued (which you would need to pay for).
You would need to pay for any additional DBS checks that may be required if you do not subscribe to the DBS update service.
Clinical placements are a compulsory element of the degree, which means that there will be an additional expense for travel and accommodation (where applicable).
If you are a UK student you will be able to apply for reimbursement for excess travel expenses and dual accommodation costs for placements (i.e.
in order to claim, the total cost of your daily return travel from your normal accommodation to your practice placement site must exceed the cost of your usual daily return travel to university).
If you travel to placement in your own motor vehicle, it is your responsibility to ensure that you have adequate insurance cover for all risks associated with its use (i.e.
this includes obtaining business use on your insurance policy).
This cannot be reimbursed.
Eligible English-domiciled full-time students on pre-registration postgraduate healthcare courses can apply for funding from Student Finance England using the undergraduate funding process.
You can access this support even if you have received loans to study an undergraduate or postgraduate course before.
More information can be found on the government and NHS websites:
Further information about the undergraduate funding available can be found on our undergraduate government loans and support web pages.
If you are an English-domiciled student studying part-time , you will not be eligible for an undergraduate loan from Student Finance England.
However, you may be eligible for a masters loan.
If you live in one of the devolved nations , you may be able to access support from your funding provider.
Awards and eligibility criteria vary depending on your funding provider and mode of study.
Further information about the postgraduate funding available can be found on our postgraduate government loans and support web pages.
As a postgraduate student, you cannot apply for undergraduate scholarships.
Eligible students may also be able to apply to the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF) .
Both full-time and part-time students can apply, with pro-rata funding for part-time students, but what you get depends on your circumstances.
School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery
ahpnm-enquiries@sheffield.ac.uk
+44 114 222 2030

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/courses/2025/speech-and-language-therapy-mmedsci:
This course is now closed to new applications for 2025 entry.
This accredited course qualifies you to practise as a speech and language therapist in a variety of health and education settings.
It can be studied full-time or part-time, over two or three years.
You will study a wide variety of difficulties that adults and children can have with communicating and/or eating, drinking and swallowing.
Topics range from anatomy and physiology, and their relationship with speech and language pathology, to the psychological and sociological factors that can affect communication.
Throughout the course, you’ll learn how to assess an individual’s communication or eating, drinking and swallowing difficulty, identify suitable interventions and manage their progress.
You’ll work closely with service users, family members, carers and related professionals to support the people you are working with.
You will also complete pre-registration eating, drinking and swallowing competencies .
This training will be put into practice and developed through a series of clinical placements, both within the University of Sheffield’s in-house speech and language therapy clinic and in a variety of health and education settings.
The course is led by a supportive team of clinical and research specialists, including speech and language therapists, psychologists, audiologists, linguists, information technologists, and medical practitioners.
The University is a world-leading centre of research, and our teams will embed the latest research into your teaching to enable you to make evidence-based decisions in future practice.
This course is approved by the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists and the Health and Care Professions Council.
First year: SLT-M Biomedical Science This module will explore components of anatomy, physiology, and neuroscience that are relevant to the understanding of human communication throughout the lifespan.
This will include the respiratory, cardiovascular and nervous systems, the development, structure and function of head, and neck, and the auditory system.
SLT-M Speech, language, communication and literacy development in children This module will cover children's development of speech, language, communication and literacy.
It addresses the following topics: speech sound / phonological development, language production and comprehension, development of pragmatics abilities, early literacy development, the associations between speech, language and literacy, theoretical models of literacy development, understanding drivers and competing theories of how children learn language, bilingualism and the impact on language learning.
The lectures will cover developmental norms and trajectories.
It will also cover factors which influence typical development.
The theoretical basis of the topic will be considered from a multidisciplinary perspective, covering psychology, education, sociolinguistics, and linguistics.
SLT-M Speech and Hearing Science This module covers key concepts related to the scientific study of speech and hearing.
There will be three broad areas covered within the module: articulatory phonetics, acoustic phonetics, and hearing science.
The module will teach concepts relevant to the study of speech and hearing in both healthy and clinical populations.
SLT-M Developmental differences in speech, language and communication This module aims to give a detailed overview of the developmental differences in children's speech, language and communication (including literacy) abilities.
The module profiles these developmental differences in children and adolescents, and includes learning difficulties, autism spectrum conditions and other neurodevelopmental differences.
The module examines these developmental differences in the context of the diverse environments children grow up in.
The impact of these developmental differences on children's lives as they grow older (eg.
educational experiences, learning and well-being) are highlighted.
Other perspectives are explored such as those of the parent/carer.
SLT-M Introduction to practical Linguistics This module will introduce students to the scientific study of the structure and function of language.
Students will learn basic linguistic concepts and theoretical constructs with special application to how these ideas help us understand speech in both typically and atypically developing populations.
SLT-M Language cognition and communication in adults 1 This unit aims to introduce students to features of language, cognition and communication in adults which are relevant to the understanding of how normal ageing and neurological damage impacts on adult language, cognition and communication.
It aims to equip students with conceptual and terminological framework which underpin research in these areas.
SLT-M Language cognition and communication in adults 2 This module builds on material covered in Language cognition and communication in adults 1 at level 1 which students will cover via online learning and which is not directly assessed..
The module covers assessment and diagnosis of language and cognitive deficits affecting communication, which arise due to stroke, traumatic brain injury and progressive neurological conditions including dementia.
SLT-M Research Methods and Statistics This module is designed to introduce students to research methods and data analysis techniques through a series of lectures and small-group workshops.
The aim of this unit is to provide students with the opportunity to learn about and employ statistical techniques through the use of practical examples and data collection exercises.
Topics covered will include (1) an introduction to research methods and the research process (2) formulating research questions and hypotheses (3) descriptive statistics and presenting data (4) samples and population distributions and (5) statistical tests (e.g., parametric and nonparametric tests; correlational analyses) (6) qualitative methods (7) principles of psychometrics (8) reliability, validity and effect sizes.
SLT-M Professional Practice 1 This module aims to introduce the student to their first experience of clinical placements across paediatric and adult clients across the calendar year.
Students learn the clinical methods and skills required for these placements as well as developing their inter-personal and professional competencies.
Students then complete a series of placements with paediatric and adult clients with communication and or eating, drinking and swallowing difficulties across a range of settings..
Participation and Society This module aims to introduce students to issues related to understanding speech and language therapy service users as individuals, and as members of society.
Content includes: theoretical models of disability; psychosocial impact of disability across the lifespan; concepts of self and identity; concepts of quality of life and its measurement; health beliefs and behaviours; and the role of gender, socioeconomic position and race in healthcare.
Students are introduced to gold standard healthcare concepts, including person-centered care and values-driven practice.
Students discuss relevant models and frameworks, and apply these to case studies.
Students will be encouraged to reflect on their own experiences, attitudes and interpersonal skills in the context of their impact on interactions with service users, their families and other professionals.
First year:
This module will explore components of anatomy, physiology, and neuroscience that are relevant to the understanding of human communication throughout the lifespan.
This module will cover children's development of speech, language, communication and literacy.
This module covers key concepts related to the scientific study of speech and hearing.
This module aims to give a detailed overview of the developmental differences in children's speech, language and communication (including literacy) abilities.
This module will introduce students to the scientific study of the structure and function of language.
This unit aims to introduce students to features of language, cognition and communication in adults which are relevant to the understanding of how normal ageing and neurological damage impacts on adult language, cognition and communication.
This module builds on material covered in Language cognition and communication in adults 1 at level 1 which students will cover via online learning and which is not directly assessed..
This module is designed to introduce students to research methods and data analysis techniques through a series of lectures and small-group workshops.
This module aims to introduce the student to their first experience of clinical placements across paediatric and adult clients across the calendar year.
This module aims to introduce students to issues related to understanding speech and language therapy service users as individuals, and as members of society.
Second year: SLT-M Language Analysis: Sound and Structure This module builds on the linguistic knowledge gained in Introduction to Practical Linguistics, applying and honing students' phonetic observation skills using clinical data.
Training will focus on the use of extIPA Symbols for Disordered Speech and VoQS (Voice Quality Symbols), as well as introduce phonological concepts relevant to clinicians such as syllable structure, prosodic structure, and dialectal differences within a language.
SLT-M Transition to Professional Autonomy This module will address issues relevant to work in modern healthcare and education contexts.
It addresses the following issues: Employment (job hunting, CV writing and interview skills, support mechanisms, first posts, independent practice); The healthcare context (Ethics in clinical practice, Caseload management, Clinical governance, professional competencies and professional guidelines).
SLT-M Evaluating the evidence base in speech and language therapy 1: Principles and methods Evidence-based practice is the integration of best research evidence with clinical expertise and patient experience in making decisions about the care of individual patients in speech and language therapy.
This module introduces the principles and methods of evidence-based clinical practice.
Students will (1) critically evaluate the methodological quality of the research using evidence-based practice and (2) apply these conclusions to clinical practice.
SLT-M Evaluating the evidence base in speech and language therapy II: Clinical dissertation Evidence-based practice is the integration of high quality research evidence with clinical expertise and service users experience in making decisions about the care of individual patients in speech and language therapy.
Building on the skills and knowledge acquired in Evaluating the evidence base in speech and language therapy I: Principles and Methods, this module will enable students to further develop and apply their knowledge of research methodology appropriate to the study of language and communication.
Students will also gain an enhanced understanding of appropriate approaches to research design for evidence based practice.
SLT-M Key Clinical Topics 1 This module aims to equip students with the theoretical knowledge of a range of specific clinical topics in speech and language therapy.
These topics include dysphagia, motor speech disorders, voice and neurology across child and adult populations.
The themes of assessment, intervention, evidence based practice, standards of practice and clinical ethics and inter-disciplinary working will underpin these topics and enable integration across the topics.
SLT-M Key Clinical Topics 2 This module aims to equip students with the theoretical knowledge of a range of specific clinical topics in speech and language therapy.
These topics include a range of client groups and communication difficulties across child and adult populations.
The themes of assessment, intervention, evidence based practice, standards of practice and clinical ethics and multi-disciplinary working will underpin these topics and enable integration across the topics.
SLT-M Professional Practice 2 This module aims to consolidate students' clinical skills through two long supervised block placements across children and adult clients in semesters 1 and 2.
Through these supervised placements, student will develop their professional skills and practice to become more independent practitioners.
Students complete a pre-school/schools based placement working with children with communication impairments in Sheffield and a motor speech disorders group placement working with adults with acquired communication impairments in the HCS clinic.
The placements are supported by lectures and seminars to prepare students for these placements.
SLT-M Professional Practice 3 This module aims to prepare students for independent practice as a speech and language therapist.
Students complete  a summer block placement with adult or paediatric service users.
Placements take place across the NHS, education and independent sector.
Students are assessed at the end of the placements to determine their ability to graduate as independent practitioners and work as newly qualified practitioners.
Second year:
This module builds on the linguistic knowledge gained in Introduction to Practical Linguistics, applying and honing students' phonetic observation skills using clinical data.
This module will address issues relevant to work in modern healthcare and education contexts.
Evidence-based practice is the integration of best research evidence with clinical expertise and patient experience in making decisions about the care of individual patients in speech and language therapy.
Evidence-based practice is the integration of high quality research evidence with clinical expertise and service users experience in making decisions about the care of individual patients in speech and language therapy.
This module aims to equip students with the theoretical knowledge of a range of specific clinical topics in speech and language therapy.
This module aims to consolidate students' clinical skills through two long supervised block placements across children and adult clients in semesters 1 and 2.
This module aims to prepare students for independent practice as a speech and language therapist.
Second year: SLT-M Speech and Hearing Science This module covers key concepts related to the scientific study of speech and hearing.
Third year: SLT-M Language Analysis: Sound and Structure This module builds on the linguistic knowledge gained in Introduction to Practical Linguistics, applying and honing students' phonetic observation skills using clinical data.
Third year:
Study days for part-time students vary by semester.
The standard pattern is given below.
There may be circumstances during the course where study days differ from this, but we will inform you in good time and take reasonable steps to minimise disruption.
You will learn through lectures, workshops, tutorials, supervised clinical placements and self-directed learning.
We use a case-based and inquiry-based approach and small-group teaching to give you an interactive learning experience.
As a pre-registration, professional programme, in-person attendance is required.
We cannot support distance/remote learning for this programme.
You’ll put your newly acquired knowledge into practice in clinical placements throughout the programme, starting from the very first semester.
During semesters one and two, placements run alongside teaching, so that you can link the topics you are studying to clinical practice.
You will then spend part of the summer each year on clinical placements.
Clinical placements take place across our placement region (including Sheffield, Rotherham, Barnsley, Chesterfield, Derby and Nottinghamshire).
An aspect of travel is therefore expected.
You will be assessed through exams, coursework, evaluation of your clinical practice and, in your final year, a dissertation and clinical viva.
Graduates from this course can register with the Health and Care Professions Council and practise as speech and language therapists.
Speech and language therapists are in high demand, and there are plenty of opportunities to specialise in areas such as mental health, stammering, hearing impairment, learning disabilities, eating, drinking and swallowing difficulties, or neurological impairments.
Many of our graduates have gone on to successful careers within NHS trusts, schools, charities, private practices or the justice system.
Others choose to go on to further postgraduate study and a research career.
The Speech and Language Therapy Clinic , which opened in 1993, allows you to gain valuable practical experience during your studies.
As a speech and language therapy clinic, it supports children and adults with a range of communication difficulties.
The clinic’s observation and treatment rooms allow students to work directly with people who have communication difficulties.
Our clinic has a range of features to support your learning, including integrated recording equipment so you can record and watch back your therapy sessions, and two-way mirrors so you can learn from other students' sessions.
We also have a comprehensive stock of assessments, intervention resources and therapy equipment for you to practise using.
The School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery brings together expertise from across human communication sciences, nursing, midwifery, pharmacy, and orthoptics.
We work closely with organisations such as the Department of Health and Social Care, the Nursing and Midwifery Council, The General Pharmaceutical Council, and the Health and Care Professions Council.
This means we can offer you high-quality, research-informed courses that meet the needs of the NHS.
Study with us and join a diverse and supportive community, led by passionate teachers, clinicians and researchers who can help you fulfil your ambitions.
Emily is studying our masters in Speech and Language Therapy part time.
She tells us more about why she chose to train in this field and her favourite placement so far.
Sheffield born and bred, speech and language therapist Charlie is passionate about working and supporting within the community she loves.
Minimum 2:1 undergraduate honours degree in any subject.
IELTS 8 (with 7.5 in each component) or University equivalent.
In your personal statement (no more than two pages) you must:
The Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists provides useful resources to help support your university application for a speech and language therapy degree .
Applicants should apply during the application window for the year that they hope to join the course.
The school will only consider deferral requests on medical grounds.
Due to the large number of applications we receive, we are unable to provide individual and specific feedback to applicants who are not shortlisted for an interview or who do not receive an offer for a place on the course.
Part-time study is only available for those who do not require a visa to study in the UK.
If you are a UK student you will be able to apply for reimbursement for excess travel expenses and dual accommodation costs for placements from the NHS Learning Support Fund .
In order to claim, the total cost of your daily return travel from your normal accommodation to your practice placement site must exceed the cost of your usual daily return travel to university.
For EU and international students the additional placement costs will be self-funded.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/courses/2025/postgraduate-certificate-education-pgce:
School of Education,

                  Faculty of Social Sciences
Our graduates make great teachers.
It’s that simple.
The PGCE course helps you develop an understanding of research, policies and practice relating to education in general and secondary education in particular.
You’ll analyse and reflect on what you learn to connect research with the classroom.
We teach an approach to your work that will stay with you throughout your career.
Our graduates are dedicated to lifelong learning, developing their professional practice, and using classroom-based research.
You’ll learn everything the qualified teacher needs to know about planning, teaching, learning, assessing, policies and processes.
In our most recent Ofsted inspection, our secondary-age teacher training was rated as ‘Outstanding’ .
We offer a provider-led route plus two routes in partnership with local schools (The University of Sheffield in partnership with Sheffield Teacher Training Alliance and The University of Sheffield in partnership with Ashfield School).
The main differences for the two additional routes are:
These two routes run alongside the provider-led PGCE and lead to the same qualification.
The University of Sheffield oversees these routes.
Secondary (11–19).
As well as a PGCE qualification and Qualified Teacher Status, you will qualify with 60 masters credits, which you may wish to put towards study for an MA Applied Professional Studies in Education .
We offer teacher training for 11- to 19-year-olds in English, geography, history, mathematics, languages and science.
Subject programmes are regularly updated and may be occasionally withdrawn.
The English course is a research-led, reflective and exciting course presenting a balanced approach to language and literacy development.
We encourage critical reflection which will enable teachers to develop their own rationale for English in school.
Fiction, drama, poetry, media and cultural studies, as well as elements of language study, are all given an important place on the course.
There is an emphasis on academic reading and critical enquiry, as well as upon practical experience in the classroom; student teachers frequently share the benefits of their experiences and research with their peers in both formal and informal situations.
Course overview University sessions are practical and workshop based, allowing opportunities to try out teaching ideas.
Student teachers will be asked to study children's fiction, poetry and Shakespeare in order to discuss ways of presenting them in class and to read children's writing in order to decide how to respond to it positively.
There will be additional workshops on A Level teaching, drama and media education.
A close relationship is maintained with the English departments of the Universities Partnership schools and there is close consultation between the PGCE tutor and the English mentor in the schools.
What are we looking for?
As this is an 11-19 course you will train to teach up to A Level.
We will normally take into account the balance of your degree content and your profile of GCSE and A Level (or equivalent) subjects and results to assess your suitability for the programme.
You will need a degree that is predominantly English based, either in Language or Literature.
If you have other related degree qualifications (such as in Law or in Journalism), we would like evidence of a strong engagement with literature and/or language-related work and that that you have read widely across a range of literature types, including Shakespeare.
University sessions are practical and workshop based, allowing opportunities to try out teaching ideas.
Geography is an important and dynamic subject and has an important role in educating young people to live successfully in a diverse society and a changing world.
This course will help you to develop teaching strategies and skills so that you can use your enthusiasm to interest and motivate pupils.
Sheffield offers excellent opportunities for geography PGCE student teachers and our course is regarded highly both locally and nationally.
The course is planned to promote teaching as a research-based profession in which critical understanding is developed alongside practical competence.
Alongside this, several of the schools supporting geography student teachers have been at the forefront of geographical education in this country for many years, and many are involved in innovative approaches to education.
Course overview The geography curriculum course aims to develop your confidence to enable you to teach in a wide variety of situations.
The course takes into account the requirements of examination specifications at GCSE, A Level and the geography National Curriculum and enables you to develop a critical understanding of recent developments.
The theoretical foundations which underlie approaches to teaching and learning are considered, particularly with regard to how these relate to geography teaching in schools.
The use and application of digital technology is a major feature of the work of teachers and there will be opportunities for you to gain practical experience in this area.
The course will help you to develop expertise in fieldwork activities and working with pupils outside the classroom.
All student teachers will have the opportunity to attend a weekend course at Cranedale Field Studies centre in Yorkshire to find out more about teaching geography in the field.
Some student teachers will also have the opportunity to participate in field trips organised by schools.
Geographically, Sheffield and its surroundings provide an interesting area for local studies and field-work.
The border of the Peak District National Park is within five miles of the University of Sheffield and the towns and cities of South Yorkshire provide good examples of urban renewal and redevelopment.
Furthermore, the national headquarters of the Geographical Association (GA) is in Sheffield and student teachers are expected to become active members of the GA.
You will need a degree in geography or have at least 50% of your degree in geography.
As this is an 11-19 course we are also preparing students to teach up to A Level and we will normally take into account the balance of your degree classification and your profile of A Level results.
The geography curriculum course aims to develop your confidence to enable you to teach in a wide variety of situations.
History plays a significant role in educating young people to become well informed and active participants in a diverse society.
Our PGCE course will enable you to develop teaching strategies and skills so that you can use your knowledge and enthusiasm for history to engage and motivate pupils.
We see no divide between theory and practice.
Our work in the University is intensely practical and your practice in school must be thoughtful and reflective.
You will belong to a history subject group supported by university subject tutors with years of experience in teaching history in secondary schools.
There will also be an opportunity to participate in a range of externally provided training including ‘Teaching the Holocaust’.
Course overview You will consider how to manage a classroom successfully and how to engage pupils of different ages and abilities in the learning of history.
The emphasis is on a collaborative, seminar style of learning.
The use and application of digital technologies is a feature of the work of teachers and there will be opportunities for you to gain practical experience in this area, as well as in various forms of history fieldwork which are used to provide experience in planning and organising school history visits.
You will need a degree in history or have at least 50% of your degree in history.
You will consider how to manage a classroom successfully and how to engage pupils of different ages and abilities in the learning of history.
Our PGCE in mathematics will help you share your enthusiasm for this interesting subject and to develop teaching strategies and skills that will empower the pupils to generate their own interest and motivation.
Mathematics teaching is constantly developing, now involving the use and application of digital technologies, you will gain practical experience in this area.
The mathematics PGCE course is organised around three themes: Teaching and learning Mathematics subject knowledge Issues in mathematics education In the university sessions, you will be actively involved in your learning, through leading seminars and presenting to your peers.
We work closely with local schools and involve mathematics teachers from partnership schools who make significant contributions to the taught programme.
You will need a degree in mathematics or have at least 50% of your degree in mathematics.
If your degree has less than 50% mathematics, we might still accept you, subject to your completion of a mathematics Subject Knowledge Enhancement course.
For further information about training to teach Maths in England please visit the Become a Maths Teacher page on the Get into Teaching website.
The mathematics PGCE course is organised around three themes:
In the university sessions, you will be actively involved in your learning, through leading seminars and presenting to your peers.
Languages teachers need to be enthusiastic, resourceful, innovative and imaginative in order to create an exciting environment for language learning.
The PGCE Languages course is designed to enable you to respond to this challenge.
It also takes account of the local and national policy contexts, encouraging an awareness of the many opportunities which exist to support language teaching and learning.
We will train you to be a reflective practitioner, and the academic masters-level work on the course fosters a deeper understanding and critical stance in relation to language pedagogy and teaching and learning in secondary schools.
Course overview Applicants will specialise in two languages from French, German and Spanish and it is common for applicants to have a main and support language.
The main language is the language you studied at degree level, in conjunction with a sustained period abroad in the target language country; this is the language you will teach on the course to A Level.
The support language may be a language you took to A Level yourself and it will provide the basis for you to teach to at least KS3.
Alongside this and subject to school availability, it may be possible to offer very limited places for Japanese, Chinese, Russian or Urdu plus one other language from French or Spanish.
Please contact the course coordinator before applying.
The languages element of the PGCE is designed to give you the confidence and skills you will need.
The course brings together theory, practice, and research, to explore methods and strategies appropriate to the range of teaching situations likely to be met in an all-ability school.
In addition to periods of block school experience, other school visits are organised and student teachers can also take part in the activities of The Association for Language Learning (ALL).
As this is an 11-19 course we are preparing you to teach up to A Level and we will normally take into account the balance of your degree content and your profile of GCSE and A Level (or equivalent) subjects and results to assess your suitability for the programme.
Most applicants will have studied one or both languages as a major part of their degree and we expect a total of at least three months´ residence in an appropriate country.
Native speakers may have a degree in another subject.
They will, however, need to demonstrate an adequate level of spoken and written English.
It is desirable for applicants to have spent time in a secondary school in the United Kingdom either working, volunteering or as a visitor and to have spent some time with the Languages department in particular.
We will consider applicants for whom French and Spanish is their only specialist language.
However, we will strongly recommend at interview that these candidates undertake a SKE (if eligible) or private course in an additional language to improve their employability once qualified.
Candidates for Mandarin, Russian, Japanese and Urdu courses should have competency in their second language to teach to at least Year 9 (14 years old) level.
This is required as the listed languages are only taught in select schools across the country and finding placements and future employment can be difficult without the ability to offer a second language.
Applicants will specialise in two languages from French, German and Spanish and it is common for applicants to have a main and support language.
The PGCE in science is offered in the following ways: Science with Biology Science with Chemistry Science with Physics Physics with Mathematics Course overview All science courses aim to prepare you with a passionate commitment to the subject which you are able to teach confidently and creatively to 11-19 year olds.
The Science with Biology, Chemistry or Physics courses are designed to prepare you to teach Balanced Science in the National Curriculum at Key Stage 3, and in your specialist subject at Key Stage 4 and post-16 courses.
The Physics with Mathematics course is designed to prepare you to teach Physics at Key Stage 4 and post -16 and Mathematics at Key Stage 3 and 4.
The University teaching team has extensive science teaching experience across the science curriculum.
Early in the course you will be introduced to a range of schemes and strategies currently in use in secondary science teaching and a range of teaching approaches will be explored.
Other important aspects of work include lesson planning, laboratory safety and first aid issues for science teachers.
You will receive appropriate support through University taught sessions that are designed to enhance your subject knowledge together with your pedagogic content knowledge.
This work is complemented by sessions to support your subject specialisms at KS3, 4 and post 16.
Physics with Mathematics student teachers will work principally with fellow science student teachers, but will have sessions based with mathematics PGCE students as well.
In all University-based sessions you are expected to be an active participant.
Coursework is practically oriented and closely related to teaching and learning.
As this is an 11-19 course we are preparing students to teach up to A-level and we will normally take into account the balance of your degree content and your profile of GCSE and A Level (or equivalent) subjects and results to assess your suitability for the programme.
It is usual to have a first degree which had at least half of its content in your science specialist subject (biology, chemistry or physics).
We do accept graduates of other science-related disciplines, such as engineering, earth science, materials science, clinical disciplines and psychology.
In such cases tutors can advise whether a subject knowledge enhancement course would be necessary prior to commencement of the course.
Physics with Mathematics applicants would usually be expected to have a physics, mathematics or engineering based degree, along with A Levels in physics and mathematics.
All PGCE science student teachers, irrespective of degree subject, have curriculum 'gaps' to fill during the course.
Because of this, a capacity for disciplined self-study is a characteristic of student teachers who do well.
Other key personal characteristics are curiosity, perseverance, and organisation.
If you are a graduate with these qualities in abundance you should thrive on the course.
For further information about training to teach Physics in England please visit the Teach Physics page on the Get into Teaching website.
The PGCE in science is offered in the following ways:
All science courses aim to prepare you with a passionate commitment to the subject which you are able to teach confidently and creatively to 11-19 year olds.
43 weeks full-time in total (including 6 weeks of school holidays)
You’ll learn through seminars, group work, tutorials, individual consultations, practical activities.
You’ll spend at least 24 weeks of the programme in schools.
Continuous assessment.
The School of Education is proud to welcome a vibrant and diverse community, with students based locally, nationally and internationally.
Minimum 2:2 undergraduate honours degree in one of our teaching subjects or with a strong element of a teaching subject.
For maths, physics and physics with maths applicants, a minimum third class undergraduate honours degree is required, with at least a grade B in the relevant A Level.
GCSE grade 4/C in English Language and Mathematics, or an equivalent qualification.
Candidates without these qualifications may either take the necessary examinations in the year before the course starts or take approved equivalency tests (see below).
Completing a Subject Knowledge Enhancement (SKE) course may also be a condition of an offer of a place on the course.
We offer our own internal equivalence (Entrance) tests as the preferred option.
There is no charge for our tests.
If you are required to take an equivalency test, we will provide full details about our own test at interview.
If you are considering paying for an external test, please let us know before you go ahead so we can confirm that it meets our requirements.
As this course leads to a professional qualification, student teachers are required to undertake a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Enhanced Disclosure and Fitness to Train to Teach Check.
You'll also need to complete Safeguarding Training.
Details about these and other relevant costs .
If you want to study at the University of Sheffield, you must be able to show that your English is good enough for you to successfully complete your course.
If English is not your first language you must have an IELTS score of 6.5 with a minimum of 6.0 in all skills or an equivalent qualification.
Please see our English language requirements for postgraduates page for more information.
Information about applying to study to be a teacher as an international student .
Apply online through DfE Apply.
It's a straightforward process and you'll get guidance to help you make a strong application.
Applications for international students have closed.
This is to allow successful applicants enough time to complete all the required pre-course tasks and meet necessary visa deadlines.
Apply now through DfE Apply
Help with applying
School of Education
You can also explore more about this course via the DfE teacher training courses portal.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/rpi/pgr/manage/su-pending:
Guidance on the level of access students can expect to have to research facilities and supervision during the submission pending period.
Information on how to apply to continue core research activities in the submission pending period.
This guidance outlines the level of access students can expect to have to research facilities and supervision during the submission pending period, to clarify and manage the expectations of students and supervisors and to ensure a consistent approach.
The submission pending period (previously known as the continuation or writing up period) refers to the time between the end of a student’s tuition fee-paying period of registration (which is between 3-4 years, depending on the research project and amount of additional training required) and their time limit (which is normally 4 years for a full-time PhD).
Most funded students will only receive a stipend during their tuition fee-paying period; therefore, students are often unfunded during their submission pending period.
Students’ research projects should be designed so that they are able to undertake all their active/core research during their tuition fee-paying period, as well as writing up their research as they progress.
By the time they reach the submission pending period, if they have not already submitted, they should only be engaged in completing the writing and final preparation of their thesis for submission.
The submission pending period should not be used for the completion of stand-alone publications, or for undertaking other work that is not directly related to the completion and submission of the thesis, for example teaching.
Most students will no longer be funded by this stage; therefore the emphasis should be on completing and submitting their thesis as soon as possible.
Where students were intending to write papers for publication, they should be made aware that these can be incorporated into their thesis without having to be rewritten and the thesis can be submitted as a publication format thesis .
The University has agreed the following principles around expectations for the submission pending period.
Requests for students to continue to make use of active/core research facilities, on a time-limited basis, where this is deemed essential to a successful thesis submission must be considered and approved at departmental/school level.
The process of identifying which students may require continued access to active/core research facilities should be considered during supervision and will be formally reviewed during the Submission Review process, which will be used to explore potential remedial or mitigatory actions to try to avoid students entering the submission pending period with outstanding active/core research.
Students who are identified at Submission Review as being at risk of not completing their active/core research by the end of their tuition fee-paying period will be flagged at this stage and required to proceed to a second stage no later than three months prior to the end of their tuition fee-paying period, at which point they will make a formal application for continued access to active/core research facilities using the ' Application for continued research in the submission pending period ' form.
As part of this process, students and supervisors will be asked to provide information on why the active/core research has not yet been completed, why the work is necessary for the thesis submission, and what the plan and timescale is for completion of that work.
Requests for continued access will be considered by the Head of Department/School, or their delegate, e.g.
the PGR Lead or appropriate departmental/school committee, in the first instance, and continued access may be refused in circumstances where they do not feel the student’s needs align with university-wide criteria.
Faculty will oversee this process and provide support to departments/schools.
Requests will be considered against criteria such as the following (this is not an exhaustive list):
The following are examples of reasons that would not normally be considered good reasons to extend access:
Any future Time Limit Extension sought where non-essential research or non-essential activity has been undertaken in the submission pending period is unlikely to be approved.
Application to undertake core research in the submission pending period
Contact the Research Degree Support Team

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/rpi/pgr/manage/registration-fees:
Information on registration and fees for new and continuing PGR students.
Registration is the process by which the University confirms that it holds correct information about its students, their programmes of study, and the arrangements for the payment of their tuition fees.
All full-time research students who are not British or Irish nationals are required to register in person on commencing their studies following a Right to Study check.
Part-time students who require a Right to Study check can do so either in person or remotely.
Full-time British or Irish nationals and University staff candidates are required to register at the commencement of their research, but are not required to register in person.
Students entering the University at the beginning of the Autumn Semester are expected to register at the start of the Semester, see the registration webpages .
Full-time students whose research commences part way through the academic year and whose nationality is not British or Irish, will be contacted by the Student Registration and Records Team to confirm where to register.
Before registering, all students must provide satisfactory evidence of their ability to pay tuition fees and other dues.
Students requiring formal confirmation letters relating to registration status and immigration matters should contact the Student Services Information desk (SSiD) .
Please note that it is not possible to amend a student's registration start date once they have registered for their degree.
If a student is aware that their start of registration date is incorrect (i.e.
they have arrived earlier or later than originally expected), and they wish to amend it, this should be done prior to registering.
Students should complete the Student Registration and Records Enquiry Form for further advice and guidance.
All full-time and part-time research students are required to register annually.
The re-registration of all research students is online, approximately two months prior to the registration start date.
Permission to re-register will be withheld in cases where students have monies outstanding to the University in respect of tuition fees and tuition-related fees.
Tuition fees for sponsored students are paid direct to the University by the sponsoring body.
The holders of university scholarships which cover tuition fees are regarded as sponsored students for this purpose.
Students who intend to pay their fees from their own or family funds which they have control of, or through a bank loan, are regarded as self-sponsored.
Self-sponsored students may choose to pay their fees either in full, or in two instalments.
Students must arrange payment of their tuition fee in advance, online, as part of their pre-registration tasks; students will not be able to pay their tuition fee when registering in a registration venue.
Postgraduate doctoral loans are available to Home students.
For information and eligibility, please see GOV.UK guidance .
See the tuition fees page for full details of the University’s fee rates and payment plans.
The minimum, normal and maximum registration periods for research degrees are defined as follows:
Minimum period of registration is the shortest allowable time between initial registration and submission of the thesis for the specified research degree programme, as defined in the University Regulations.
Permission is required for a student to submit their thesis before the end of their minimum period of registration.
Tuition fees are payable for the duration of the minimum period of registration.
Normal period of registration and tuition fee payment is the typical or optimum time between initial registration and submission of the thesis for the specified research degree programme.
Tuition fees are payable for the duration of the normal period of registration.
The University's expectation is that ALL research students should submit their thesis within the normal, i.e.
tuition fee-paying, period of registration.
Maximum period of registration is the time limit for submission of the thesis for the specified research degree programme, as defined in the University's Regulations.
Students who do not submit their thesis before their time limit will be withdrawn, unless they are granted an extension to their time limit (extensions are only granted in very exceptional circumstances).
The normal registration period for tuition fee-paying purposes and the time limit for submission of the thesis are specified on a student’s offer letter.
Most full-time PhD students have a normal/tuition fee-paying period of between three and four years and a maximum registration period of four years, depending on the funder and the nature of the project and training required.
Projects should be designed from the outset to be completed within the fee-paying/funded period and regularly monitored to ensure timely submission.
This will ensure that students do not have to work unfunded during the latter stages of their degree.
Please note: these periods of registration include the writing of the thesis to the point of submission and apply to standard programmes.
There are an increasing number of non-standard PhDs, where the periods of registration may be longer than the standard.
This may be due to additional training and/or placements, or other funder requirements.
Students are advised to consult their offer letter which will specify their exact normal and maximum registration periods.
*The normal and maximum registration periods for a full-time PhD, PhD with Integrated Masters qualification or EngD vary according to factors such as funder and training requirements and students should refer to their offer letter for their precise duration.
Tuition fees are payable for the duration of the normal period of registration and are collected at the beginning of each year.
If a student submits their thesis after passing the minimum period of registration, but before completing the normal period of registration a refund of tuition fees will be calculated on a pro-rata basis, based on the thesis submission date.
In exceptional circumstances if a student does not submit their thesis by their time limit (maximum period of registration) they may be granted a time limit extension to continue on with their programme.
Fees for time limit extensions are incurred on a pro rata basis, depending on the length of the extension.
Extension periods of less than a month are charged the full fee for the month.
Time limits and extensions
Additional fees will be incurred should a student be required to resubmit their thesis following their viva examination.
Examination outcomes
Extension and resubmission fees can be paid by credit or debit card online.
Queries regarding payments should be addressed to: feepayments@sheffield.ac.uk .
Online Payment System
Please note that these fees are increased annually from 01 August.
Registration for new students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/postgraduate/phd/scholarships/eligibility:
Find out if you are eligible for University of Sheffield and Research Council Scholarship schemes.
EU and EEA students who started their programme from the 2021/22 academic year onwards, and who do not have settled status, pre-settled status (also meeting residency requirements) or indefinite leave to remain in the UK, will be classed as Overseas students and therefore liable for Overseas fees.
Find out more about PhD fees

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/centres/directory:
A complete overview of our research centres across and within faculties.
Explore our many research networks on their faculty websites:
Arts and Humanities
Engineering
Health
Science
Social Sciences

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/centres/externally-funded:
In partnership with experts from business, policy and academia, our externally-funded centres are vibrant hubs of collaboration and world-leading research.
Housed within one of the largest East Asian Studies departments in Europe, the Centre for Korean Studies marks Sheffield out as a leading hub for Korean Studies in the region and the world.
Leaders in advanced metals processing research, Royce is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities to help accelerate university and industry ideas to industry production scale.
Dedicated to improving the treatment and care of people with long-term health conditions, the BRC creates an environment where early-phase, clinical and applied research can thrive.
One of 30 centres worldwide and under the direction of Rolls-Royce, the UTC in Advanced Electrical Machines and Drives facilitiates advancements in technology aimed at future Rolls-Royce market requirements.
Led by the University, the South Yorkshire Sustainability Centre connects world-leading research with regional partners to reduce emissions while also enabling employment and economic growth.
In partnership with academic and innovation leaders, CMAC transforms medicines manufacturing through multidisciplinary collaborative research, training and translation within a world-class facility.
Through world-class manufacturing research and innovation, FEMM will assist UK manufacturing to capture significant value in the electrical machine supply chain, improve productivity and deliver cleaner growth.
Located at the Kroto Innovation Centre, the Renewable Energy Research Centre is developing the most reliable, innovative and efficient wind turbine generators in partnership with Siemens Gamesa.
The Leverhulme Centre for Climate Change Mitigation brings together a wide range of researchers to explore the potential of using enhanced rock weathering on croplands to remove CO2 from the atmosphere.
Focusing on the perspective of families and individuals, communities and workers, the Centre for Care provides accessible evidence on care to inform changes that could improve the lives of millions of people.
In collaboration with the Grantham Foundation for the Protection of the Environment, the Grantham Centre's research helps create a sustainable future and mentor the next generation of sustainability researchers.
CaCHE is a multidisciplinary partnership between academia, housing policy and practice, producing evidence and new research to tackle the UK’s housing problems at a national, devolved, regional, and local level.
The Centre aims to develop a blueprint for the factories of the future that will be able to respond to changing market requirements by being resilient, adaptable, and reconfigurable, funded by EPSRC and the Made Smarter challenge.
The National Epitaxy Centre provides a range of high-quality bespoke epitaxial wafers and devices that underpin world-class semiconductor research to UK academics and industrial customers, and to support the impact of this research in the UK's scientific and industrial strategy.
Alongside Rolls-Royce experts, the UTC carries out collaborative research with the aim of supporting the company's business aims through design, development, manufacture and service provision for integrated power systems that are used in the air, land and sea.
The University of Sheffield is a partner in four new hubs that are set to make manufacturing more sustainable.
Each hub will explore ways to reduce waste, emissions and pollution whilst also lowering production costs within key areas of manufacturing:
Four new research hubs aiming to address the challenge of commercialising early stage research within key areas of manufacturing, such as aerospace, medicines and semiconductors, have been launched with academics at the University of Sheffield.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/centres/translational:
Since the University of Sheffield AMRC was founded in 2001, it has been committed to creating centres of excellence which make a difference to the advanced manufacturing sector - not only regionally, but nationally and internationally.
It has become a model for research centres worldwide and is part of the High Value Manufacturing Catapult.
Explore the evolution of the AMRC
AMRC
The Sheffield Royce Translational Centre helps manufacturing companies in the Sheffield City Region adopt technology to produce and process metal powders.
The centre works with companies to apply research discoveries to their manufacturing, aiming to bridge the gap between metal powder research and its applications for industry.
Sheffield RTC
The Laboratory for Verification and Validation (LVV) capitalises on the University's expertise for testing large engineering structures under real life vibration conditions.
They aim to make radical improvement in product design, operation and lifetime for engineering structures by testing them under real-life conditions.
LVV
The Integrated Civil Infrastructure Research Centre (iCAIR) take Sheffield’s expertise in advanced manufacturing and apply it to national civil engineering and infrastructure challenges.
Researchers are looking at how big data, advanced materials and robotics can be used to increase innovation in the sector.
iCAIR
The Translational Energy Research Centre at the University of Sheffield is one of the largest research and development facilities in Europe for zero-carbon energy, hydrogen, bioenergy, and CCUS.
TERC
The Sustainable Aviation Fuels Innovation Centre is a bespoke research centre for the development and testing of sustainable aviation fuels.
SAF-IC is jointly funded by the European Regional Development Fund and the University of Sheffield.
SAF-IC
The Gene Therapy Innovation and Manufacturing Centre (GTIMC) has been formed as part of the Innovation Hubs for Gene Therapies .
The network of Innovation Hubs for Gene Therapies is a new UK initiative designed to advance the clinical development of new genetic treatments through the production of clinical grade vectors, alongside translational support and regulatory advice.
GTIMC
The Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN) is an essential development in the fight against motor neurone disease and other common neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's and dementia, as well as stroke and multiple sclerosis.
It was awarded the Queen's Anniversary Award in 2019 and The Future NHS Parliamentary award in 2019 recognising its impact in developing new treatments that give hope to patients and carers.
SITraN
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs)
Access to equipment and facilities

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/facilities:
We're home to world-class facilities that support research both within the University of Sheffield and in collaboration with a wide variety of partners.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/centres/criteria:
The University Executive Board have agreed a process and criteria to identify, or establish new, cross-faculty University Research Centres.
Beyond external funding awards, high quality outputs and impact and PGR supervision, the hallmarks of effective research institutes and centres are:
Faculty Directors of Research & Innovation and Faculty Vice Presidents have oversight of the creation,  objective setting and monitoring, support for and closing of faculty research centres, as well as any which operate within departments.
They will undertake periodic assessments to ensure they are delivering against their plans and in line with the criteria set out here.
Proposals to establish a new cross-faculty University Research Centre will be made by the relevant FDRIs to the VP(R&I), will be peer-reviewed by Vice-President’s Strategy group before seeking approval from the Research and Innovation Committee.
Once established URCs will be reviewed at the midpoint and endpoint of each five year period of any agreed institutional support.
Research centres and facilities

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/coronavirus:
The COVID-19 pandemic is creating a vast and growing number of challenges for all of us.
Staff and students from across the University of Sheffield are working to mitigate its effects on society with a rapid response through crucial research, innovation and collaborations.
We are at the forefront of innovative manufacturing research.
Our staff from the Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC), Nuclear AMRC and the Faculty of Engineering are using their skills, expertise and facilities to help provide vital equipment to the NHS.
Explore more research
A clinical research facility run by the University of Sheffield and Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust has been awarded £7.9m in funding which will support the development and testing of new treatments for diseases.
University of Sheffield scientists and Yorkshire company Paraytec have developed a more accurate, efficient and low cost Covid-19 test.
Experts in genomics from across the University have joined forces with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals to help us get a better understanding of COVID-19.
The work will enable us to manage the current crisis and respond in a more agile way to new infectious diseases.
COVID-19 Research team and information
Researchers from the University of Sheffield and Stanford University in the US have discovered there are specific genetic signals in people who develop severe coronavirus infection.
Researchers have identified abnormalities in the lungs of Long Covid patients who are experiencing breathlessness that cannot be detected with routine tests.
Our researchers are investigating how the coronavirus crisis is affecting society, and we're finding ways to to optimise how patients with coronavirus are assessed and treated by the emergency care system.
Two new studies from the University of Sheffield and the Institute of Alcohol Studies/HealthLumen show that the shifts in alcohol consumption during the pandemic could lead to thousands of extra deaths in England.
Worse healthcare experiences among people from ethnic minorities and lower levels of trust in government and the medical establishment explain some of the ethnicity gap in Covid-19 vaccination rates, a study has found.
Experts from the Institute for Sustainable Food and Energy Institute are working with industry partners to understand the fragility in our supply chains and collaborate on ways to improve food security for all.
Local food suppliers saved the day during the Covid-19 pandemic food shortages, but new research from the University of Sheffield also finds lessons need to be learnt if national food systems are to survive future crises.
Researchers from the University of Sheffield’s Institute for Sustainable Food are hosting national discussions about the sustainability of global food systems today (Monday 14 March 2022) at the Royal Society in London.
We live in a world that is facing one of its biggest challenges in living memory.
The coronavirus pandemic has devastating potential as it sweeps across the globe.
To fight this virus and slow its spread, we've had to change almost everything about how we live our lives.
In Coronavirus, Examined we talked to experts from the University of Sheffield to explore the different ways in which coronavirus is changing our world and the way we live.
Our Coronavirus, Examined podcast

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/culture/steering-board:
“At Sheffield, research excellence means that how we conduct our research, the environment we create and how we support our research community are just as important as the outputs we produce and the impacts we achieve.
Colleagues at Sheffield are actively engaged in fantastic projects and initiatives that enhance our research culture and generate best practice.
In many areas, we are at the forefront of our sector in this work.
We need to ensure that we have a full understanding of the myriad of activities across our institution, strategically utilise internal and external funding to facilitate our work, bring groups of colleagues together and communicate and implement their findings and recommendations.
The Steering Board for Research Culture has been established to provide this oversight and coordination role, with representatives from across our faculties and professional service departments.
I look forward to working with Board members and engaging with colleagues across our University on this crucial agenda.”
Professor John Flint
Chair of the Steering Board for Research Culture
The Steering Board is responsible for:
Chair: Professor John Flint
Secretary: Kathrine Jensen (Strategic Projects Officer, Research, Partnerships and Innovation)
Research, Partnerships and Innovation representative: Dr Meera Warrier (Assistant Director - Researchers and Culture, Research, Partnerships and Innovation)
Technician representative: Bronte Elliott (Science)
Research Hub representative: Dr Katherine Ford (MDH hub)
HR representative: Hannah Morgan (Head of Organisational Development)
Open Research representative: Joanna Gavins (Research Practice Lead)
Researcher Development representative: Amy Shaw (Academic Developer)
Researcher Development representative: Lucy Lee (Head of Researcher Development)
Postgraduate Researcher representative: Eleanor RA Hyde (Psychology)
Postdoctoral/Early Career Researcher representative: Ameera Jailani (MDH)
Mid-Career Researcher representative: Ryan S Powell (Social Sciences)
Faculty Director of One University representative: Professor Neil Sims (Engineering)
Academic Head of Department representative: Professor Tom Baldwin (School of Languages and Cultures)
Faculty PGR lead representative: Professor Andy Furley (Science)
Library representative: Anna Grigson (Associate Director, Digital Strategies, Research and Engagement)
Steering Board members will:
If you have any questions, comments or ideas on the Steering Board and its work, please email research-culture@sheffield.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/culture/listening:
We have a number of forums to ensure everyone in our research community can influence our approach.
These include University-wide networks for our Department Directors of Research and Innovation and Directors of PGR, and University Committees for Early Career Researchers and PGRs.
We have also established a Research Culture Steering Board .
In November and December 2022, we surveyed our PGR community to better understand their unique experiences of our research culture, listen to their thoughts and suggestions, and pinpoint areas where we can provide better training and support.
There were 617 responses, constituting a response rate of around 15%.
We asked PGRs for their thoughts on five key areas:
The findings of this survey have been collated in an internal report (staff/PGR login required)
Overall, the majority of respondents said they have a positive experience of the research culture at Sheffield and identified many examples of existing good practice.
The findings also suggest that there is still work to do around raising awareness of the wellbeing support available and the existing processes for reporting discrimination of any form.
A number of areas for improvement were also raised along with practical suggestions that could help us enhance our culture with PGRs in mind.
For example, ensuring that opportunities for socialising are inclusive for mature students, disabled students, part-time students, international students or for students located outside of Sheffield.
In 2022 we worked with Research Consulting to commission a report into the research culture at Sheffield.
We gathered input through a series of interviews and themed focus groups, with 53 participants representing senior leadership, early and mid-career research staff, research and technical support staff and PGRs.
We wanted to know:
Participants identified a number of positive aspects of our research culture, including:
Participants also identified some issues with the current environment, including how research is valued and prioritised and their experience of day-to-day process and delivery.
Many improvements are already taking place in the ongoing plans to enable an excellent research culture for all, in some cases involving tweaks to existing policies and processes to ensure they are appropriately communicated and put into practice.
The findings of this consultation have been collated in an internal report (staff/PGR login required)
On 3 November 2022 John Flint, Deputy Vice-President for Research, hosted the Research town hall.
John and colleagues – Deborah Lodge, Director of Research, Partnerships and Innovation, Neil Harris, former Deputy Director of Research, Partnerships and Innovation, and Dr Tom Stafford, Academic Practice Lead and Senior Lecturer in the Department of Psychology – shared updates on the Research strategy delivery plan.
They covered research excellence and the REF, research culture and researcher development, open research and early career researchers and postgraduate research students.
They then answered questions from the audience before handing over to the attendees to discuss priority areas for research.
These discussions focussed on three topics: delivering research excellence, research culture and postgraduate research student experience.
These activities support our two Research pillar priorities which are to enable and actively promote a culture of research excellence and to become the institution of choice for postgraduate research students.
See the event summary and next steps on the Staff Hub (login required)
We recognise there are specific challenges and opportunities for our MCR community that may be overlooked by traditional career development pathways.
The Mid-Career Researcher Task and Finish Group was set up in September 2022 to further our career development support for MCRs, and as part of our commitment to the Researcher Concordat .
The group was tasked with:
The main point to emerge from the Group's investigation is that MCRs face a set of specific challenges, and that we need to enhance our bespoke support for MCRs' progression and development as we have already sought to do with ECRs.
It is also important to acknowledge that progression and development is not simply linear, and to avoid making assumptions that MCRs no longer require certain forms of support such as grant capture or producing world-leading outputs.
The group's findings and recommendations have been collated in an internal report (staff/PGR login needed)
As a result of the work of the Mid-Career Researcher Task and Finish Group the Established Researcher Forum was set up.
The Established Researcher Forum is a researcher-led network that supports this group of staff through a programme of events and activities including peer networking, shared learning and development opportunities.
Our research culture
Steering Board for Research Culture

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/culture/our-commitments:
We have committed to support and develop our research culture in a series of institutional commitments, agreements and accreditations.
Openness and accountability are essential to enhancing our research culture.
Making these commitments means we have a collective responsibility to
You can explore all our public commitments and action plans below.
We are fully committed to fostering high standards of good research practice throughout our research community, and ensuring that all research and innovation activities mitigate any potential harms to staff, research participants and their wider communities.
Our annual update for 2021
Our compliance with the Research Integrity Concordat
We will ensure that the processes and outputs of research are transparent and freely accessible wherever possible, taking into account legal, ethical and commercial considerations.
Our open research culture and practice
We put the development of our research staff and the culture in which they work, at the heart of our vision for world-leading, impactful research.
How we’re implementing the Researcher Concordat
In September 2012, we were awarded our first European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award and successfully retained this in July 2019.
Our performance was measured against the principles of the Researcher Concordat and recognised our progress towards a high-quality environment for research staff and postgraduate researchers.
Read more about our HR Excellence in Research Award
We pledge to ensure visibility, recognition, career development, and sustainability for technical staff working in higher education and research.
Our action plan
The KE Concordat is a sector-led initiative that aims to support, develop and strengthen KE activity among higher education institutions, give partners an accurate representation of the approach that HE providers are taking to KE, provide clear indicators of improvement, and give governing bodies and government confidence in the activity that is taking place in HE providers.
The University of Sheffield was one of 112 institutions participating in the development year.
Find out more on the Staff Hub (login required)
We work hard not just to meet, but wherever possible exceed, legal standards and research guidelines for the husbandry, care and use of animals, and are fully committed to transparency and public engagement on research involving animals.
Our transparency and accountability procedures
We are committed to sharing our knowledge, resources and skills with the public, listening to and learning from the different communities we engage with, developing our approach to public engagement and sharing best practice.
Read more about the Manifesto
We have a duty of care to ensure the welfare of staff, students, those carrying out activities on our behalf as well as external individuals and communities, and that potential risks of harm are considered and mitigated.
How we’ve implemented this guidance in our safeguarding policy
Rather than solely relying on journal-based metrics, we value, support and reward research outputs based on quality, not quantity.
We commit to recognising the content, value and influence of specific research, and research processes which are collegiate and ambitious.
Using metrics responsibly
How we define research excellence
We are one of only 18 universities to hold a Silver institutional Athena SWAN award and one of only four institutions nationally to retain their Silver award upon renewal.
Athena SWAN Charter recognises our commitment to advancing women’s careers across the university, particularly in STEMM subjects: science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine.
How we’re creating gender equality at Sheffield
Progressing equality, diversity and inclusion is essential to creating a University culture and environment where colleagues and students feel they belong, and are supported to meet their full potential.
In consultation with our students and staff, in spring 2022 we launched our new One University Disability Equality Strategy and Action plan, which aims to improve the experiences of our disabled staff and students.
How we're improving disability equality
See the strategy and action plan
As a member of UKRN (UK Reproducibility Network) we commit to making the processes and outputs of research transparent and freely accessible, whenever possible.
Our culture of open research supports dissemination, interpretation and re-use of research, promotes research rigour, reliability and reproducibility, allows others to validate and contribute to our research, and serves the public interest.
Read the University's statement on open research
Hear from Prof Tom Stafford, our Research Practice Lead
We are committed to eliminating racial inequalities and have signed up to the Race Equality Charter, a framework which enables us to identify institutional and cultural barriers.
To further this, a cross-university team has been assembled to submit an application for the Race Equality Charter Bronze Award.
We are actively engaging with staff and students to understand our community’s experiences and perceptions in order to reflect, plan and implement actions for tangible change.
How we’re improving race equality
Read our Race Equality Strategy and Action Plan
We're passionate about creating an inclusive University for lesbian, gay, bi and trans staff and students.
In 2022, an LGBT+ Strategy Review Group was formed to review and refresh our work on LGBT+ inclusion.
The review builds upon our existing LGBT+ inclusion work and outlines an approach tailored to our higher education context and the needs and interests of our LGBT+ staff and students.
How we're fostering LGBT+ inclusion

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/culture/erc-funding:
We'd love to hear from staff and research students who want to know more about our research culture work, get involved or provide feedback.
Please contact Kathrine Jensen , Strategic Projects Officer in Research, Partnerships and Innovation.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/culture/erc-funding/2023-24:
We’ve funded a number of exciting projects that explore innovative approaches to making our research culture more open, inclusive and supportive.
In 2023-24 we received £850,000 from Research England's Enhancing Research Culture funding to invest in developing our research culture.
We are delighted to fund 17 projects from across all five faculties, professional services and cross-faculty teams.
Below you can find an overview of all projects.
Lead applicant: Dr Daniele Tartarini (Department of Computer Science)
Co-applicants: Dr Paul Watton , Dr Yasmeen Rafiq , Research Software Engineering team (Department of Computer Science), Dr Pablo Rodolfo Baldivieso Monasterios and Dr Rob Worley (Department of Automatic Control and Systems Engineering), Dr Paul Hughes and Dr Enrico Dall’Ara (School of Medicine and Population Health), Dr Alexander Fletcher (School of Mathematics and Statistics), Dr Giacomo Torelli (Department of Civil and Structural Engineering), Dr Pinaki Bhattacharya and Dr Xinshan Li (Department of Mechanical Engineering)
Lead applicant: Dr Jennifer Burr (School of Medicine and Population Health)
Co-applicants: Dr Kirsty Liddiard (School of Education and iHuman), Dr Nicola Hemmings (School of Biosciences), Sophie Phillips (School of Education and iHuman), Dave Holloway (Academic Programmes and Student Engagement)
Summary: The project was a collaboration with the Participatory Research Network (PRN) and the Centre for Equity & Inclusion and builds on the findings of the 2022/23 Research Culture funded project ‘Assessing Equality, Diversity and Inclusion as principles of ethical research’ conducted by members of the University Research Ethics Committee.
Our key aims in the project were to locate different projects and researchers across the university who engaged in approaches to research that are inclusive and ethical, showcase their work as examples of best practice and deliver a short online course.
Our outcomes are four insightful and engaging short films that showcase the excellent inclusive, creative and dynamic research happening at Sheffield.
Each film shows why a deep ethical commitment must sit at the heart of research and how collaborative, participatory and community-engaged approaches can contribute to a positive research culture.
Outputs: The films are embedded in the TUoS research ethics web pages and available via PRN resources and its new PRN Hub .
Each video demonstrates research in a different context and discusses the challenges and opportunities for ethical research in adopting a PPI approach.
The videos are appropriate for staff and students and at all levels with an interest in research.
An introductory video can be found here .
Lead applicant: Dr Alex Mason (Centre for Equity and Inclusion)
Co-applicants: Dr Nicola Hemmings (School of Biosciences), Dr Seth Mehl (Digital Humanities Institute), Dr Meesha Warmington (School of Education), Dr Bobby Nisha (Department of Urban Studies and Planning), Dr Antony Williams (School of Education), Annalisa Toccara-Jones (School of Journalism, Media and Communications)
Summary: The Centre for Equity & Inclusion recruited a part-time Communications & Partnerships Officer and received a small amount of seed funding for the CPO to lead on enhancing the CEI’s communications to ensure all PGRs of colour are able to benefit from tailored support, and forging new external connections to create career-enhancing opportunities for PGRs.
The CPO took over comms strategy and delivery for the Centre, liaising with PGRs and Centre partners, disseminating a monthly newsletter and running all Centre socials.
They used the seed funding to capture testimonials from PGRs who had been using the Centre services over the last 2 years, to further help with raising our profile.
We launched an online seminar series on racial justice.
Each event (4 total) brought together PhD students of colour, researchers and external partners to discuss significant issues relating to race and racial justice that were felt to be under examined in academia.
This also addressed an issue identified by PGRs and partners about the lack of opportunities to learn about each other’s work.
The greater focus on communications also saw an increase in participation in core Centre activity.
Centre Chats is a monthly activity that invites PGRs of colour to meet in a small group, over lunch, and discuss their university experience.
The average attendance of these sessions doubled during the comms officer’s tenure.
Similarly, our mentoring scheme also saw PGR participation figures double.
Doubling figures in both these areas means the Centre’s crucial intervention around PGR of colour mental health and wellbeing has had a greater reach and impact.
Output: Testimonials from PGRs who had been using the Centre services over the last 2 years.
Lead applicant: Rea Smith (Science Graduate School)
Co-applicants: Prof.
Andrew Furley (School of Biosciences), Prof.
Alison Gartland (School of Medicine and Population Health), Prof.
Nicola Morley (Department of Materials Science and Engineering), Dr Stefanie Pukallus (Institute for Global Sustainable Development), Prof.
Jonathan Rayner (School of English), Sarah Bell (Research, Partnerships and Innovation)
Summary: The project aimed to build on the existing PGR Culture enhancement project but also to understand how inclusive PGR academic representation and engagement can improve the PGR experience across the University and Sheffield Students Union.
As a joint project with the Students Union in November 2023 we launched the funded PGR Voice Researcher call for PGR project teams.
The call focussed on exploring the PGR experience for certain student populations at Sheffield.
We awarded funding to two project teams to look at:
Recommendations from the projects will be shared, the project teams will also deliver briefings for the SU elected officers on their findings, specifically the Post Graduate Officer.
The project also repeated the success of last year's Cross-Faculty PGR poster event - providing the space and opportunity to bring together PGRs across the University to showcase research and network outside of their respective depts/Faculties.
Now completing two years of this event we have a toolkit for future events.
Many of the other projects also span multiple departments and purposes, and include activities that cross faculties and services.
Lead applicant: Joanna Jenner (Faculty of Social Sciences Research Support)
Co-applicants: Peter Greenacre (HR, Faculty of Social Sciences), Bethan Thomas (Finance, Faculty of Social Sciences) Simon Beecroft (Faculty of Social Sciences Research Support), Dr Maria Tomlinson (School of Journalism, Media and Communication), Prof.
Ruth Blakeley (Department of Politics and International Relations)
Summary: This project involved staff across all twelve departments in the Faculty of Social Sciences.
They participated in one to one discussions, focus groups or videos, it also involved PS colleagues from HR, research support and finance.
The project team created a suite of 5 videos focusing on grant management for new PIs to support them with recruiting and managing staff and managing their grant.
The videos include perspectives and advice from experienced academic staff, PS staff and early career researchers.
Videos are available on MyDevelopment and all new award holders in the Faculty of Social Sciences will be sent links to the videos.
Outputs: Outputs: The videos can be accessed via a playlist called ‘Research Grant Management: Fostering a Positive Research Culture’ on myDevelopment and cover the following areas:
For more information and links to the videos please visit:
Social Sciences Research Portal - Grant Awards - Video Resources for PIs
Lead applicant: Sarah Bell (Research, Partnerships and Innovation)
Co-applicants: Dr Chris Blackmore (School of Medicine and Population Health), Dr Emma Suret (Research, Partnerships and Innovation)
Summary: This project aimed to encourage and enable the equitable and meaningful involvement of postgraduate researchers in the university’s PGR Wellbeing Strategy Group (PGRWSG), and in the development and delivery of its work, by paying them for their time and expertise.
This project has benefited directly those PGRs who might otherwise be financially excluded from applying for such voluntary roles, and  has led to a greater diversity of voices being heard.
The project comprised two discrete but complementary strands, which have already begun to positively impact the university’s conversations and decision-making around PGR wellbeing.
Strand one involved recruiting PGR representatives to be members of PGRWSG.
This ensured that issues raised by PGRs in-faculty could inform the design of PGR wellbeing focus groups (strand two).
Strand two  aimed  to understand the lived experience of PGRs at the university, through six 90-minute focus groups.
These groups were led by three paid PGRs, recruited, trained and supported to act as facilitators of six focus groups.
Having transcribed and analysed the data in collaboration with project staff,  the PGR facilitators produced a report that was launched at the university’s Researcher Wellbeing conference, and contributes significantly to the developing PGR Wellbeing Strategy.
The final report is available to members of the PGR Wellbeing Strategy Group, and will be shared more widely in the future.
An associated conference presentation has already been given by the PGR facilitators at a university-wide Researcher Wellbeing Conference.
Lead applicant: Dr David Wilby (RSE, Department of Computer Science)
Co-applicants: Norbert Gyenge and Saul Cozens (IT Services)
Summary: Open Research requires technical skills that not all researchers currently have which is a barrier to ensure transparency in research methods and implement FAIR principles.
Through our Carpentries membership, we conducted 20 workshops delivering essential skills in programming, research reproducibility, and reporting.
We launched a new summer school focused on R programming language, equipping researchers with advanced skills, enabling them to communicate their findings effectively and build interactive tools, further promoting open and accessible research practices.
Participants also received certifications, enhancing their CVs and recognising their commitment to professional development.
The success of this inaugural summer school paves the way for its continuation in future years.
We offered Carpentries instructor training to 12 colleagues, ensuring the long-term sustainability of high-quality research training at the University.
This project directly supports our commitment to open research, fostering a culture where researchers have the skills and support to share their work openly and transparently.
The primary beneficiaries of our project were PhD researchers and early-career researchers across diverse disciplines, encompassing both academic and professional settings, who were motivated to learn new  skills.
We also prioritised outreach to minority groups, such as Women in HPC, and to research groups traditionally underserved in IT support and tools, like those in the social sciences, ensuring inclusivity and accessibility across our programs.
Lead applicant: Prof.
Emma Moore (School of English)
Nicola Dibben (Department of Music), Dr Madeleine Callaghan (School of English), Alex Goode (Faculty of Arts and Humanities Research Hub)
Summary: This project sought to consolidate the shift in research culture across the Faculty of Arts and Humanities by enhancing support over the entire life cycle of research grants.
This life cycle encompasses: idea development, writing, and outcome.
Specifically, we provided increased person-centred support (empowering academics to make the most of existing opportunities provided by professional services, e.g.
pitch-to-peer sessions, events organised by research centres and clusters, peer review of funding applications), financial resource (to facilitate research project development and networking) and increased mentoring and coaching opportunities.
At the Idea stage, we facilitated monthly peer support groups for 64 colleagues.
We also supported a networking funding stream to allow academics to obtain support from disciplinary peers and workshop ideas in the development stages.
Colleagues were able to undertake practical skills training; collaboration meetings; and roundtable events.
These activities have supported/are supporting applications to a range of funders, including the AHRC, the British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust; the ESRC; the ERC, NERC and the Wellcome Trust.
To support grant application writing, colleagues were able to access disciplinary mentoring from colleagues within and outside Sheffield who have already been successful with the colleague’s selected funder.
They could also access professional mentoring and training on grant writing practices.
We developed a range of videos which detail the role that many teams across the University play in the Lifecycle of a Grant.
This has created a resource to share across the Faculty, which will aim to demystify the funding and outline the support available at different stages.
We also provided bespoke support for colleagues to help repurpose unsuccessful grant applications.
An infographic with links to the videos created will be available on the Arts Research Portal.
Our aim was not to increase applications per se, but to increase our success rate by supporting colleagues in the production of high quality applications likely to win or score highly in external competitions, avoid burnout or fatigue in repurposing unsuccessful applications, and increase confidence and independence around grant applications.
In so doing, this project supported our long term aim of empowering colleagues at all career stages, and continuing to nurture a more inclusive and accessible research environment in the faculty.
Lead applicant: Dr Erin Maglaque (Department of History)
Co-applicants: Dr Emily Baughan (Department of History)
Neil Sims (Department of Mechanical Engineering)
Co-applicants: Dr Ruoyang Yuan , Gareth Barker (Department of Mechanical Engineering), Andrew Massey (Estates and Facilities Management), Prof.
Rachael Rothman (Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering), Tracy Wray (Corporate Communications)
Summary: Achieving net-zero will require significant changes to working practices amongst the University research community.
This project aimed to enhance the environmental sustainability of research activities through three case studies that explored specific areas of energy consumption.
Each focused on the cultural and behavioural aspects of research practices, including identifying necessary cultural changes, evidencing and articulating the need for change, and facilitating and enabling change through leadership and professional service teams.
The case study outcomes identified best practices in the use of specialist equipment and promoted improved working practices among targeted lab user groups.
The outcomes will serve as a university-wide resource for laboratories seeking LEAF accreditation.
Additionally, the project emphasised the critical role of open-access data in prioritisation, enhancing efficiency, and enabling change through Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
To further ensure the prioritisation of sustainable practices, it is also essential to highlight external drivers, such as funder requirements and the LEAF scheme.
Future efforts should prioritise the availability of energy consumption data and explore approaches to intrinsically incentivize leadership without adding burdens or complexities.
Lead applicant: Dr Richard Hodgkinson (Department of Materials Science and Engineering)
Co-applicants: Andrew Patrick (Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering), Stephen Mason (Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering)
Summary : The project funding enabled the creation of the “Open Access Mechanical Workshop” (OAMW).
This new space for researchers, stocked with tools for researchers to use to facilitate their work and accompanied by training/access routes, challenges the current culture where technical staff are responsible for realising bespoke research equipment.
Substantial donations were made from other departments towards this initiative, and the awarded funding additionally supported training a cohort of researchers in manual milling and turning to permit safe use of the OAMW’s machine tools.
Initially supporting a “General Engineering Education” (GEE) undergraduate project, the space is now being regularly used by the trainee cohort and others to further their work.
Benefits range from research facilitation, improved technical communication, and bilateral skills transfer between researchers and technicians to improving the academic - technical staff relationship, embedding local knowledge in departments, and encouraging the use of a safe, overseen space for creation of research equipment.
A number of simple projects have already been completed by the current users and the OAMW has had several independent queries from additional users wishing to access the space.
Routes to support the OAMW going forward through mutually beneficial arrangements/sponsorship routes are being explored.
Outputs: Open Access Mechanical Workshop and OAMW Internal website .
Lead applicant: Dr Catarina Henriques and Dr Ruth Thompson (School of Medicine and Population Health)
Co-applicants: Dr Luke Green , Alanna Green , Becky Pennington and Ola Rominyi (School of Medicine and Population Health)
Summary: Researchers face significant challenges when transitioning to independence, requiring them to rapidly learn a diverse set of new skills to achieve their research ambitions.
Rather than flourishing, many struggle to navigate the combined challenges of funding acquisition, staff and student recruitment, group management, teaching and administrative duties.
Our goal was to form a new Fellows’ College in the Faculty of Health (FoH), to successfully support our existing and aspiring fellows through this transition and beyond.
A fellow was defined as an independent researcher with their own funding and research vision.
Currently the Faculty of Health host over 100 Independent Research Fellows and our live fellowship income is in excess of £25M, highlighting our impact.
Outputs: We organised a 2 day event , which sold out (total 67 attendees).
We identified problems and proposed solutions, which were presented to relevant executive leaders and leadership members regarding.
We delivered a final report to the Faculty executive proposing future support structure changes.
Fellows College Report (PDF, 168KB)
We created a FoH Fellows College , recruited a diverse committee and Ensured the Research Fellows Committee now has a regular representative at Faculty Research & Innovation Committee meetings.
Lead applicant: Dr Iwan Evans , Dr Ruth Payne (School of Medicine and Population Health)
Co-applicants: Dr Michelle Lawson (School of Medicine and Population Health)
Summary: The project aimed to bring together a community of clinical PGRs (medics/dentists/AHPs/nurses) from across the Faculty of Health and beyond.
These PGRs face distinct challenges to non-clinicians and report feeling neglected/misunderstood as a cohort.
Since Covid-19, which disproportionately impacted their studies (due to patient facing roles/projects), this demographic has felt increasingly isolated, not least as it is spread across diverse locations on/off campus.
We brought the cohort together via an initial away day, then ran monthly lunchtime meetings focused on issues highlighted at the away day (career overviews from established clinical academics/project management/research-life balance/writing/career pathways).
Materials from these sessions were shared via Google Spaces and a website.
Outcomes : This project brought together clinical PGRs to share best practice across a range of topics including writing strategies, wellbeing and project management.
This enabled clinical PGRs to broaden their networks, increasing levels of peer-to-peer support within the cohort.
Presentations from established clinical academics enabled advice to be passed on and for those established academics also to learn from current issues affecting the cohort.
These events helped clinical PGRs network and share advice/peer-to-peer support.
They helped increase visibility of this cohort, highlighting the need for greater integration between University and NHS.
E.g., it will now be recorded whether new PGRs are clinicians during induction, enabling more effective targeting of these PGRs.
The year ended with an away day focusing on career pathways.
The aim is to hand over to a student committee to continue cohort activities.
Lead applicant: Dr Nicola Buckland (Department of Psychology)
Co-applicants: Dr Rebecca Ehata (Research, Partnerships and Innovation)
Summary: There are widespread concerns that University research cultures do not sufficiently support PhD students to explore the range of career opportunities available to them.
This project explored barriers to sufficient careers support for PhD students to inform improved provision where needed.
A survey with supervisors from the University of Sheffield (UoS) explored supervisors’ practice and barriers/enablers to providing careers support to PhD students.
Six focus groups with UoS PhD students also explored students’ experiences and barriers/enablers to sufficient University career development.
Preliminary results found supervisors reported enthusiasm to discuss careers with students.
However, most had not received any training, did not think there were sufficient reminders to discuss careers and only 25% felt confident to discuss careers outside of academia.
Students reported awareness about the University’s available career’s, however, some suggested the support was not tailored to their discipline or postgraduate level.
More career discussions with supervisors, greater visibility of available careers resources and having other-sector partners or industries embedded throughout the PhD were some suggestions to improve the careers support for PhD students.
Lead applicant: Dr Joanna Tidy (Department of Politics and International Relations)
Summary: The project aimed to enhance data transparency in qualitative and mixed method research across two faculties: Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities.
To do so it brought together researchers in these faculties, the Open and Data Publishing Department at Cambridge University Press (CUP), and Qualitative Data Repository (QDR) at Syracuse University to develop workflows and strategies for the use of Annotation for Transparent Inquiry (ATI) which is an open source, free and non-proprietary tool designed to facilitate transparency in qualitative and mixed-methods research developed by CUP and QDR.
During the project a cohort of 30 researchers from across the two faculties learned about ATI and how to use it during sessions with the project team, CUP, and QDR.
A working group drawn from this cohort distilled learning into a practical 'how to' document setting out how to use ATI throughout the lifecycle of a piece of research.
This resource will be made available to researchers throughout the university, and to the wider academic community via CUP/QDR.
Lead applicant: Dr Antonios Ktenidis (School of Education)
Co-applicants: Dr Alex Mason (Centre for Equity and Inclusion), Prof.
Dan Goodley (School of Education and iHuman), Jane-May Martin (School of Education), Nigel Barker (City, Culture and Public Engagement)
Summary: This project followed on from the creation of the accessibility guide (AG) to actually test how well the guide works.
The AG was used in the planning of two events, Love and Social Justice Event and Critical Exploration of Ethical Issues in Research with Vulnerable Population, and helped shape promotion, scheduling, staging, performances, refreshments etc.
The AG (both the original and the easyread form) has been shared with other centres e.g.
Centre for Care/EDI Directors.
Further training is planned with the Public Engagement team, and this work will feed into the Wellcome project on anti-ableist research cultures.
Lead applicant: Sheila Webber (Information School)
Co-applicants: Laura Barber , Dr Pam McKinney , James Toner , Laura Williams (Information School)
All Enhancing Research Culture projects

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/culture/erc-funding/2022-23:
This year we funded a broad range of exciting projects to support a more open, inclusive and supportive research culture.
In 2022-23 we received £850,000 from Research England's Enhancing Research Culture funding to invest in developing our research culture.
We are delighted to fund 14 projects from across all five faculties, professional services and cross-faculty teams.
Faculty/service: PGR Graduate School
Lead applicant: Dr Stefanie Pukallus (Institute for Global Sustainable Development) and Prof.
Alison Gartland (School of Medicine and Population Health)
Andy Furley (School of Biosciences), Dr Monica Latham (Engineering Graduate School), Prof.
Jonathan Rayner (School of English)
Summary: We organised a poster competition in the Octagon for June 2023.
All PGR students across the University were invited to develop a poster to present their research in a non-jargon way to the University.
90 students signed up and attended a workshop on how to design a poster followed by a drop in session a week later.
This was done by an external company called Research Retold and the feedback had been positive throughout.
All posters were exhibited in the Octagon – lunch was provided for PGR students.
At peak points we had about 300 attendees from across the University.
The competition also provided the opportunity for PGRS to network and included skills training, also done by Research Retold, on how to communicate one’s research to non-academic audiences.
Attendees voted and the winners will be awarded Amazon vouchers at the Student Union Poster exhibition launch in Oct 2023.
At this exhibition where the student union will for the first time ever exhibit the work of doctoral students, we will show all posters again for a period of two weeks.
There will be a launch event with a wine reception to which all PGR students and staff will be invited.
These events already have and will continue to stimulate research culture across the University amongst PGR students, by bringing them in touch with each other and providing an opportunity for them to learn what other PGRs are doing and to network with them.
We have just obtained further funding for the same type of poster event next year – that round will be led by Arts and Humanities but all Faculties will be involved again.
Faculty/service: Health, Social Sciences, Engineering
Lead applicant: Dr Munitta Muthana (School of Medicine and Population Health)
Amaka Offiah (School of Medicine and Population Health), Dr Meesha Warmington (School of Education), Dr Jagroop Pandhal (Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering), Prof.
Ilaria Bellantuono (School of Medicine and Population Health), Prof.
Alan Walker (Department of Sociological Studies)
Summary: This project aimed to determine the level of cultural intelligence across the different groups in the University and co-produce key recommendations for increasing inclusivity.
We conducted a systematic review of current policies and practices at Sheffield and other universities, as well as a total of 14 interviews and six focus groups with minoritised doctoral students and staff at the University of Sheffield across different roles and faculties.
We found that there are instances of micro-aggressions and experiences of “covert” forms of racial violence/racism, which resulted in the accumulation of harms and exclusion for these students and staff.
There are reported difficulties in challenging oppressive or discriminatory behaviours, which indicate that the current ‘Report and Support’ system may need further adjustment and greater transparency.
At the same time, some reported that there is a lack of support, or in some cases, restrictions when it came to promotion and recruitment; although some have had positive experiences with their line managers in this process, line managers need more training in terms of providing support for minoritised students and staff members.
We conclude that a cultural shift, led from the top, is needed to provide an inclusive environment for all.
Faculty/service: Science, Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities
Lead applicant: Dr Nicola Hemmings (School of Biosciences)
Co-applicants: Dr Alex Mason (Centre for Equity and Inclusion), Dr Seth Mehl (Digital Humanities Institute), Dr Bobby Nisha (Department of Urban Studies & Planning), Dr Antony Williams (School of Education)
Summary: The Centre for Equity & Inclusion used Research Culture funding to develop and implement short-term knowledge exchange (KE) projects focused on the experiences of international postgraduate researchers (PGRs) at TUoS.
The project aims were to (1) increase access to development opportunities for international PGRs, which we know are limited compared to domestic PGRs, and (2) improve our understanding of the international PGR student experience and how to enhance it.
We supported and funded three six-month KE projects, co-developed by international PGRs of colour and external experts in racial justice.
The first was a project explicitly focused on understanding the international PGR experience via focus group-based research across all university faculties, the results of which were presented at an anti-racism conference in Sheffield in July 2023, and will be available as a report in September 2023.
The other two projects both had a climate justice focus: One was an impact assessment of new community-driven solar powered irrigation systems in India, which have been implemented to empower local people to grow their own food, and the other was a participatory media production project focused on water systems maintenance by communities in Nairobi.
Faculty/service: Health, Social Sciences, Engineering, Arts and Humanities, Professional Services
Co-applicants: Jessica Breese (iHuman), Tom Pickard (Computer Science), Prof.
Sara Fovargue (School of Law), Prof.
Jonathan Rayner (School of English), Lindsay Unwin (Research, Partnerships and Innovation), Dr Edward Hall (Department of Politics and International Relations), Dr Anju Devianee Keetharuth (School of Medicine and Population Health), Dr Jennifer Kettle (School of Clinical Dentistry), Sarab El-Yousfi (School of Clinical Dentistry)
Summary: Through interviews with members of research funding bodies and academics across TUoS and elsewhere, this project investigated the challenges in incorporating ED&I into the research ethics process.
The findings suggest two areas to address with regard to ED&I in research ethics: 1) the importance of ED&I in ethical thinking in research, which acknowledges relationships of power both in the way that research is conducted and how the findings are portrayed and 2) The need for a clear and defendable rationale for the inclusion of ED&I so that researchers do not feel ‘over-policed by ethics committees’.
One area seen as important was the use of language where researchers are apprehensive about getting language wrong and are fearful of upsetting some groups of the population.
Undertaking this project has raised awareness of some of the excellent work being done in the University and the need to bring together existing networks to ensure our research ethics policy showcases and is underpinned by the excellent work already done across the University under the One University Pillar.
Outputs:
Report - Research ethics and ED&I
SCHARR Communicable Research podcast : Dr Jennifer Burr discuss the topic of research ethics and in particular how current research aligns with equality, diversity and inclusion practices.
Many of the other projects also span multiple departments and purposes and include activities that cross faculties and services.
Faculty/service: Human Resources
Lead applicant: Rob Gower (Human Resources)
Summary: The project focuses on developing our response to bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct (staff to staff and staff to student misconduct) which are significant areas of focus for the sector in improving research culture.
Whilst issues of bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct can occur in any sector, the unique way in which research teams are formed and funded can create significant power imbalances which can exacerbate issues and lead to reluctance to report issues, or for reported issues to be investigated.
The OfS’ Statement of Expectations, UUK guidance, statements from research councils and funding bodies are directing universities to improve their focus on these areas in order to reduce the prevalence of negative behaviours and enhance research culture.
The project links to recent work on a new staff Code of Conduct which clearly articulated expected behavioural standards and linked to our core values.
A continuing programme of work is underway to review and then embed related policies, improve the processes which apply when a concern is raised about a member of staff’s conduct (including by a student) and run campaigns to increase awareness and encourage greater levels of reporting in order that we can address issues of bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct.
Web content: Introduction to Report and Support was developed as part of the project work (Staff/PGR login required).
Lead applicant: Jared Carnie (National Technician Development Centre, Vice Chancellor’s Office)
Summary: This project was funded to help to design and create a survey to capture the experiences of staff living with disability and chronic illness at the University of Sheffield.
The two stage project involved first the development and formulation of an appropriate survey, using input from those with lived experience of disability and chronic illness.
The second stage was then the launch of the survey itself to the relevant groups within the University.
The survey captured information related to:
Key takeaways from the findings are that:
Outputs
Department: Cross-departmental
Jane Hodson (School of English), T.
Ryan Byerly (Department of Philosophy), Prof.
Jennifer Coates (School of East Asian Studies), Dr Lizzy Craig-Atkins (Department of Archaeology), Prof.
Siobhan Lambert-Hurley (Department of History), Prof.
Simon Keefe (Department of Music), Prof.
Lauren Rea (School of Languages and Cultures)
Summary: Following a successful initiative in 2021-22 in the School of English to increase research productivity and well-being, this project widened the scope of activities across the entire Faculty of Arts & Humanities (FCA) in 2022-2023.
The project provided each department in the FCA with support to initiate its own bottom-up identification of research culture priorities; offered coaching opportunities to help empower colleagues at all levels of seniority to co-produce a renewed research environment; built individual and institutional resilience around research by establishing a culture of peer-led coaching; and identified where activities or discussion related to research culture could be shared.
These included support at the early stages of applying for research/ formulating an idea; grant writing support; feedback on work in progress; maximising the benefits of working flexibly and initiating a culture shift to focus on longer-term, better-quality, but potentially less frequent research outputs.
Department: Archaeology
Lead applicant: Dr Elizabeth Craig Atkins (Department of Archaeology)
Bob Johnston (Department of Archaeology)
Summary: The Department of Archaeology is currently delivering a strategic plan to prepare for our structural reconfiguration across Biosciences and History in September 2024.
To progress this work we drew on the collective input of current staff in Archaeology, History, Biosciences and the wider university as well as a broad range of external advisors to ensure the feasibility of our plans and maximise the ambition of our vision.
We received funding from the Research Cultures call to deliver collaborative workshops that ran between Jan-March 2023.
The first set of events facilitated broad staff participation in the development of specific proposals for our three research priorities: Bioarchaeology, Material Histories and Cultural Heritage.
The final workshop progressed the management plan for our collections and facilities.
To maximise the outcomes of these workshops we hired facilitators and paid external experts to ensure strategic discussion delivered directly actionable outcomes and developed a suitably ambitious, internationally-framed vision.
Department: Electronic and Electrical Engineering
Lead applicant: Dr Rola Saad (Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering)
Mark Hopkinson and Prof.
Jo Shien Ng (Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering)
Summary: This project aimed to strengthen research culture among the EEE PGR community and create networking opportunities for researchers across multidisciplinary engineering.
Bringing internal and external expertise and coaches, a series of structured training, seminars and workshops were delivered to increase awareness on research impact, excellence, leadership, entrepreneurship, commercialisation, effective communication skills and building a community among researchers.
The project created a positive environment for researchers, fostered a positive research culture, and increased awareness of the importance of skills development to research impact and excellence.
Output: The events, activities and outputs can be viewed on the project website.
A publication is also available.
He, Y., Hu, Z.
and Saad, R., 2024.
Breaking Barriers: Promoting inclusive research culture among PGR engineering students.
Exchanges: The Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 11(3), pp.252-265.
Department: School of Medicine and Population Health
Lead applicant: Dr Kate Fryer (School of Medicine and Population Health) Co-applicants: Dr Caroline Mitchell, Dr Habiba Aminu, Dr Shamanthi Jayasooriya , Dr Qizhi Huang and Dr Josie Reynolds (School of Medicine and Population Health)
Summary: This project aimed to place communities at the centre of two NIHR priority research areas, dementia and respiratory disorders, as a step towards citizen control of the research agenda.
Building on pre-existing relationships with local ethnic minority communities, we identified and trained Community Research Link Workers (CRLWs) from the Chinese and Roma communities, to undertake patient and public involvement sessions within their communities.
The CRLWs carried out priority setting exercises over two patient and public involvement meetings, in relation to dementia in the Chinese community and lung health with the Roma community.
The first meeting involved a lay introduction to the topic, and a discussion to draw out the concerns of the community members.
A rapid literature review was then undertaken by the academic researchers.
The main findings were presented in a lay format at a second meeting, with further discussion to establish where the community felt that more research was needed.
Outcomes of this project:
Google Site: Research Priority Setting with Communities
Lead applicant: Dr Kirsty Liddiard (School of Education and iHuman)
Co-applicants: Dr Lauren White (Sheffield Methods Institute), Ankita Mishra (Department of Psychology)
Summary: Our Participatory Research Network (PRN) related project has explored what TUoS PGRs need in relation to engaging in participatory research.
Participatory research is an ethical, collaborative and community-engaged form of inquiry that aims to make a difference in people’s lives.
However, participatory research is an area that is often incompatible with the postgraduate process, despite its valorisation in the academic world and the explicit desire for projects that use these methodologies (Mason, 2021).
As a primarily collaborative inquiry, it also conflicts with postgraduate research as an individual endeavour (Barry and Corcoran 2022).
Participatory research rests upon strong, established relationships with external partners (Liddiard et al.
2022), which postgraduate students, due to the time constraints of doctoral research, often don’t have the capacity to build during their studies (Barry and Corcoran 2022).
Our project explored the available resources, support and knowledge about participatory research at PGR level across TUoS.
It sought to explore the challenges and barriers experienced by PGRs employing participatory research and to collaboratively design action plans to address these.
Our project resulted in working with PGRs employing participatory research as co-researchers to provide an evidence base of current practice and to design recommendations to create more inclusive research cultures at TUoS.
Co-applicants: Dr Alex Mason (Centre for Equity and Inclusion), Dr Antony Williams (School of Education), Dr Ros Williams (Department of Sociological Studies), Prof.
Dan Goodley (School of Education and iHuman)
Summary: Our project aimed to co-create an accessibility guide for the organisation of inclusive events and the accessible public dissemination of research, and to host a one-day, face-to-face and live-streamed symposium, focusing on anti-racist and anti-disablist research cultures.
For the co-creation of the accessibility guide, we drew on both internal and external (Ladders4Action) expertise on race, disability and access, and we held a series of online workshops with disabled colleagues of colour to identify the accessibility key issues to be addressed and practical information to be provided e.g.
guidance on BSL interpretation, venue hire, catering options.
The accessibility guide was then piloted in the organisation and delivery of the symposium.
The symposium brought together key scholars and academics to identify the key challenges and changes required to promote inclusive research cultures that are responsive to disability and race.
Proposals for institutional policies and practices often do not give space to the intellectual contributions of black and disabled researchers (see for example recent special issue of Nature).
Moreover, there is often a disconnect between the innovative work of funders and non-government organisations and the aspirations of universities.
Our symposium addressed these intellectual and sectoral gaps.
Accessibility guide
Blog post
Department: School of Education
Lead applicant: Dr Darren Webb (School of Education)
Co-applicants: Dr Antonios Ktenidis (School of Education), Prof.
David Hyatt (School of Education)
Summary: This project sought to uncover the hidden labour undertaken by ‘international’ PGRs that often remains invisible to academic and professional services staff.
The challenges within PGRs’ academic studies include their experience being imbued with not only pedagogic power relations in their relationships with their supervisors but also with the legacy of a colonial past still visible in our universities every day.
This legacy is visible in the language that is used to them and about them: they are interpellated as ‘international’ students, as a homogenous group, grounded in their fee-paying status, rather than with an understanding of their diversity and the hierarchies of such a diverse group of people.
Our project sought the voices of international PGRs in uncloaking the ‘hidden challenges’ they encounter and the physical and emotional labour required to face them.
An international PGR within the School of Education was engaged as a Research Associate in order to undertake semi-structured interviews with other international PGRs.
The data gathered was rich and powerful and was used to inform two key Outputs a set of recommendations (a toolkit) for supervisors, departments and the university; and three fictionalised composite case studies illustrating the experiences of the international PGR community.
Recommendations booklet: The Secret Lives of International PGRs
The recommendation to create a booklet highlighting the services PGRs can use and benefit from was developed into webpages with supporting information , and this will be signposted in pre-arrival communication.
Short animations:
Department: iHuman
Lead applicant: Dr Matthew Hanchard (Department of Sociological Studies and iHuman)
Summary: Normative scientific notions of reproducibility and replicability are well established for assessing and/or evaluating research in STEM fields.
As a result, cultures of making open quantitative datasets and the processes and methods used to generate them transparent have become standard expectations of good research.
Qualitative research, often steeped in interpretivism, place less importance on reproducibility.
Methods such as ethnographic immersion are seen to negate the process, small sample sizes make anonymity problematic, meanwhile personal interactions in interviews or focus groups differ from one day to the next - depending on the dynamics of that interaction.
Meanwhile, funders, regulators, and national bodies are currently moving towards an expectation that research of all types be made open access.
The project examined: (1) how a culture of open qualitative research might be fostered; and (2) to report on what resources are needed to support it.
It addressed questions about the perceptions and practices of open qualitative research, including making qualitative data and analyses open access, and in working in more transparent ways.
Rather than focussing only on the technical and processual aspects, the project also covered epistemic debates i.e., on what it might mean to make interpretivist inquiry open at various stages.
Find out more on the iHuman site
Report: Fostering cultures of open qualitative research
The funding supported the inaugural Annual Open Research Lecture in December 2022, delivered by Professor Tom Stafford, which facilitated discussion and raised the profile of open research as a key TUoS priority.
A developed and expanded OpenFest 2023 ran in September 2023, including an online symposium which attracted over 100 attendees from across the UK and internationally.
The OpenFest Sheffield Showcase, co-delivered with Sheffield Hallam, provided an opportunity to share good practice and culminated in the launch of the Open Scholarship Community Sheffield (OSCS), a grassroots open research community bringing together colleagues from TUoS and SHU which will lead to further activities and ongoing impact in future.
Where possible, OpenFest sessions were recorded , allowing the Library to preserve and further share talks for a wider range of interested colleagues.
A component of the funds was also used for small prizes to encourage ORCiD use and uptake among the PGR community.
The library developed a project to run a second round of the Open Research prize , previously run by the library in 2021, this time with separate staff and PGR categories and an additional category for research teams.
This enabled the University Library to reward and showcase good practice in open research and to create a series of written case studies which are hosted on the open research webpages as an important advocacy resource.
We created three short video case studies about the winners and runners up, plus an additional short film ‘Open Research at Sheffield’ .
Following earlier work to develop guidance on FAIR data for different disciplines, the Library recruited a Research Data Steward to advance the project further, working closely with departments to produce and implement guidance for a range of disciplines.
ERC funds supported the initial stages of this role.
Together with the Open Research Manager, the Data Steward produced the online FAIR Guidance resource, which provides broadly applicable guidance for researchers at each stage of their project together with detailed advice for those handling specific data types.
This resource has been extremely well-received by researchers at TUoS and beyond and provides an important tool to support good practice in data management and sharing.
Enhancing Research Culture funding: 2021-22 projects

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/culture/erc-funding/2021-22:
We're committed to investing in our research culture, and last year funded a range of exciting projects to make our environment more open, inclusive and supportive.
In 2021-22 we received over £800,000 from Research England's Enhancing Research Culture funding to invest in developing our research culture.
We were delighted to fund 35 projects from across all five faculties, professional services, the National Technician Development Centre and the Centre for Equity and Inclusion.
Projects focused around three key themes (with some overlap):
Below you can find an overview of all the projects, as well as contact details of project leads.
Project theme: Open research
Contact: Prof Zoe Marshman and Sarab El-Yousfi
Summary: The project produced patient- and participant-facing resources (in different formats and languages) aimed at children with different dental diseases and conditions.
These resources have been developed with extensive involvement of children and can be used as ‘templates’ for other similar resources developed in the Department, Faculty, University and NHS Trusts in future.
Outputs: A self-help cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) intervention to reduce dental anxiety in children.
Introducing CALM for Children and Young People
Introducing CALM for Parents and Carers
Participant information video to be used in NIHR-funded feasibility study hosted on a university webpage .
A 'top tips' for research with young children resource was developed.
The project established a network of community partners with whom the Healthy Lifespan Institute (HELSI) can share its work and engage on specific topics for advice.
The project enabled organisations across South Yorkshire to have the opportunity to exchange ideas and learn from HELSI’s work, and developed a small group of organisations able to conduct closer working relationships with HELSI, and contribute to research agenda setting and insight.
We also developed an external-facing newsletter and additional social media sources through which to promote HELSI’s work.
The network of 221 organisations has been used to help construct bids (ESRC, NIHR).
Another outcome was a strong relationship with a community organisation called Darnall Wellbeing (DWB).
We held a community event and DWB has been involved in three bids, providing letters of support and offers of workshops.
The team also developed a briefing paper (below) on first steps in building coproduction with community organisations.
Contact: Prof Tony Ryan , Prof Alan Walker , Prof Ilaria Bellantuono , Dr Liz Williams and Dr Sarah Alden
Outputs: Coproduction with Community Organisations: A practical guide (PDF, 73KB)
This project has provided a great opportunity to build up and strengthen the partnership we have with the Sheffield African Caribbean Mental Health Association.
We provided a platform to develop more inclusive research with black men from the local community.
By having community researchers from their community run the project, it encouraged the building of trust.
This has resulted in a great response to the project, for example, a good number of recruitment in a short period of time, and lively and productive discussions during workshops.
Activities from this project are published in the EMRI (Ethnic Minority Research Inclusion) newsletter.
Contact: Prof Janet Brown and Dr Qizhi Huang
Published article in the British Journal of General Practice (2023) .
This project set out to highlight and expand understanding of gender equality challenges in research, create themed areas of strength, build new and consolidate existing regional and global partnerships and share good practice.
It brought together members of the White Rose Gender Equality College with partners from 9 countries.
It produced a networking database, particularly in relation to gender, to be used as the basis of further collaborations.
This reduces some barriers for those wishing to access information about sensitive subjects and also includes discipline-based indices.
Moreover, researchers who may not have considered gender in the past now have a doorway to learning from those with lots of experience and expertise.
Project theme: Equality, diversity and inclusion
Contact: Prof Patricia Cowell and Dr Melanie Knight
Outputs: A Gender Equality Global Map was developed.
It includes links to over 200 organisations worldwide.
The project materials will also be available from the White Rose University Consortium website.
A network event for the project provided an avenue for impactful discussions among diverse individuals, community organisations, policymakers and funders, which raised a number of barriers and enablers to develop a supportive and positive research culture.
All participants agreed that EDI in the modern slavery field should be an ongoing discussion.
For us at ScHARR, the project has provided us with an opportunity to form a strong collaborative team of researchers from different backgrounds and organisations, in which the visibility of our commitment will be highlighted.
Output: As a result of the project, the researchers strengthened their affiliation with Basnet and the Bakhita centre at St.
Mary’s University and created a strong research team.
Together, they contested in a UKRI AHRC call for research on EDI in the modern slavery research sector and the collaborative bid was successful.
The project details and report from July 2023 can be found on the Modern Slavery & Human Rights Policy and Evidence Centre.
Contact: Dr Liz Such and Habiba Aminu
This project has initiated and deepened collaborations between the University of Sheffield and key external organisations within the research ecosystem.
The project has facilitated collaborative work into equal, diverse, and inclusive research delivery using data-driven approaches, to target populations via the 105 primary care sites in the city.
We have created the PRiD 3 tool (Primary Care Data, Demographics, Development) using geospatial mapping software, linking to national high-quality databases, to map demographic features of interest in the city such as ethnic group, deprivation and disease prevalence.
The tool is available as a service for research design and research delivery projects.
Contact: Dr Jon Dickson
The project established a network via a series of events with lunch where senior staff present and discuss, as part of the ECR champions’ approach to building a community for their department.
The initial event received overwhelmingly positive feedback from both ECR staff and senior staff members.
In particular, the approach taken to focus on what more could be done by senior staff to support ECR staff was praised.
All of those who gave feedback intend to engage with future events, helping to establish the network and build a supportive research community over time.
This will facilitate the sharing of issues which can then be shared with management, as well as opportunities for networking and collaboration, fostering strong, ECR-led research.
The Dean and Deputy Dean have offered to engage with our follow-on programme of networking lunches to ensure both bottom-up and top-down communication of ECR relevant information.
We have also begun a process of linking ECR staff with mid-career researchers for mentorship and support.
Project theme: Career development and community
Contact: Jen Lewis , Madeleine Henney , Ellie Holding and Jennifer Read
The project team constructed an online survey focused on identifying challenges and wastage within the academic career pathway within the UK.
People are lost at critical career transition points, or there is a large amount of time spent training new individuals or finishing other people’s research projects.
This is a very inefficient process which inhibits research output.
The main barrier is short term research funding.
This leads to loss of talent and promotes a negative/competitive culture focused solely on success rather than collaboration.
The team is sharing the data at department and faculty level to identify support needs and developing plans for engaging with research funders.
Contact: Dr Chris Toseland and Dr Alison Twelvetrees
The project outcomes (special session, paper, talks) will serve as a small catalyst to bring EDI issues in this area to the forefront.
This will help make the research apply less biased approaches and data but will hopefully also pave the way for more inclusive, general research practices.
The aim is to publish a set of good practices, for example, collecting new data and how to avoid common biases in this area.
Contact: Prof Heidi Christensen
Following the pandemic, there was concern about the isolation and loneliness PhD students had faced and unwillingness to come back on-site after spending so much time being remote.
A session was developed to provide an opportunity to talk in-depth about the opportunities for change, and what can be done to improve our research culture with a view to collecting ideas and potential actions to move us towards the desired culture.
Some of the issues raised at the event will influence the planning of the upcoming PGR Induction programme, such as a structured training programme to support their learning and skills development through the PhD.
The event also helped to launch the Engineering PGR Student Committee which aims to provide events to help build a social environment for PGR students to meet.
This will help to provide the opportunity to overcome the feeling of loneliness and isolation PhD study can lead to.
Contact: Eunice Lawton and Dr Monica Latham
Contact: Dr Neil Walkinshaw
Summary: The project aimed to initiate the process of developing a network of research-active Computer Science organisations with a view to sharing good practice to foster a more inclusive environment.
It included visits to universities and the Microsoft Inclusive Tech Lab in the US.
Discussions initiated with White Rose universities in the UK.
Lessons learnt particularly around recruitment and retention, resourcing EDI initiatives appropriately and taking a broad view of the discipline when recruiting.
At TUoS this project has led to the creation of an Inclusive Computing Lead role, paired with the Alumni Relations Lead to further develop the Sheffield Centre for Inclusive Computing.
The work has resulted in the development of a White Rose Centre for Inclusive Computing , launched on 27 February 2024.
The project involved an international conference where staff, students and industry members had the opportunity to reflect on their own experiences and learn from a group of experts the different approaches of EDI.
Another activity involved collaboration with a member of the railway industry and plans for the Creation of a Centre of Excellence based on EDI.
The next stages of the project involve developing and establishing a globally-recognised and collaborative partnership between academia and industry, with a focus on not only improving the research environment but making Materials Science and Engineering a unique place to study, work and plan a professional career.
Contact: Dr Edgar Barajas Ledemas and Prof Gwen Reilly
This project funded a four-day/three-night ‘research retreat’ for women and other underrepresented minority groups in Biosciences.
The retreat provided participants with four days of uninterrupted time and ‘headspace’ to work on a paper, grant application, or other piece of writing or analysis.
The writing retreat received mostly positive feedback in terms of allowing participants to carve out time for desk-based research activities that would have been completed sporadically.
The four participants were able to write a grant, complete a manuscript, and complete outstanding journal papers.
All participants reported positively on having the opportunity to spend time with research colleagues they would not usually see very often, this led to two of the participants forming a new collaboration and exploring future grant ideas.
Contact: Claire Mangham , Prof Colin Osborne and Prof Katie Field
The project developed a short introductory video about open research, aimed at PhD students in the Faculty of Social Sciences.
The video provides a useful and accessible introduction to open research for new and existing PhD students within the Faculty of Social Sciences, and potentially other Faculties.
This will support the University’s goal of achieving research excellence, and aligns well with the University position statement about open research.
It is important to include open research training material early in a researcher’s career in order to develop key principles related to research integrity and ethics.
Contact: Dr Jim Uttley
The project has led to the establishment of a network of leading academics who have an interest in and relevant expertise related to the application of open research for qualitative research methods.
The project has also produced a number of discussions that have highlighted key issues that will be summarised in a position statement on open science principles within qualitative and humanities research.
The project has resulted in the University now being the institutional home of the Sex Work Research Hub , a well-established international research network that connects academics from the UK and beyond with sex workers, support projects, and other key stakeholders.
The project produced a good practice resource for researchers at the national and international level in the form of a report, which adheres to the FAIR principles and promotes research integrity, open research, and ethical practices around academic engagement and knowledge exchange.
A sex worker inclusive policy is in draft and aims to foster a university-wide culture that supports the inclusion and enabling of an underrepresented group, with a ‘sister’ policy passed by the Student Union in May 2022.
Contact: Dr Laura Connelly
Through a series of focus groups, the project has increased awareness of the experiences and the thoughts that ECRs in the Faculty of Social Sciences have on the enablers and barriers to fostering inclusive and diverse research practices
Issues identified included precarity of contracts, the role of the PI in supporting an inclusive research culture, top-down approaches and ECR career development and progression.
Focus groups also identified a number of enablers to an inclusive and diverse research culture, including Departmental and Faculty support for ECRs enabling them to take the initiative, the provision of ECR mentorship in departments and research centres, and institutional support and funding.
One proposition discussed was the creation of an ECR mentor within departments who were assigned to and could help guide ECRs.
These mentors would be (permanent) members of staff who had fresh experiences of what it was like being an ECR and so could readily relate to the difficulties and challenges of being an ECR.
Contact: Dr Sarah Torsner and Dr Tom Buckley
Our findings show the configuration of publications networks (in terms of seniority, institutional background and interdisciplinarity) and locates existing research excellence and disciplinary leadership within the Faculty.
Primarily the project provides initial data on research networks and inclusion in these networks across the Faculty.
For staff, the benefits of having this data stem from a greater transparency of our current research collaborations and the ability to visualise their place in a wider research community and network.
Looking at how our research clusters, centres and units interconnect with each other within the department and across the Faculty and university, there is a real sense of how interdisciplinary we are as an institution.
This visualisation helps to provide tangible evidence of such a claim.
Contact: Dr Sabrina Thornton , Dr Chay Brooks and Dr Nerea Okong'o
The project's Research Group events and the staff-PGR event have helped to develop a greater sense of research community, and in particular to provide colleagues with opportunities to get to know and learn about the research of those who joined the department (both staff and PGR) during the pandemic.
The activities also led to concrete plans for all five Research Groups, tailored to the needs and wishes of the members of each of those groups, including the development of new formats for Research Group meetings in 2022-23, new and more regular informal sessions for some groups, a decision to focus strategically on work-in-progress sessions and strategically-chosen invitations to external speakers.
Given the pluralism of the Department, sub-disciplinary Research Groups are central to departmental research culture and the fostering of a productive and supportive intellectual environment.
We anticipate that the new connections and decisions made by Research Groups through the funded activities will have a significant impact on improving buy-in for Research Group activities, and on the effectiveness of the sessions they run in the new academic year.
Contact: Prof Simon Rushton , Prof Ruth Blakeley and Prof Kate Dommett
We held a two-day event in Sheffield at the end of June, attended by Centre for Care (CfC) team members, international CfC collaborators from four European universities and University of Sheffield staff interested in the work of the CfC.
The focus was on inclusion, equality and diversity, and on enabling under-represented groups to benefit from and participate in research.
The CfC team learnt about work done by our international collaborators, learnt from TUoS colleagues and non academic partners about co-production, participatory research and policy engagement.
Early Career Researchers made new connections, locally, nationally and internationally.
This project has formed a culture of openness and engagement where academics and non-academic partners are working together to share knowledge and resources to deliver impact.
The event facilitated sharing of research methods, datasets, toolkits and expertise which are being embedded into research plans.
Contact: Prof Sue Yeandle , Dr Kelly Davidge and Becky Driscoll
The project has included a wide range of stakeholders who have been invited to join a network and be informed of ongoing work and opportunities.
In addition to the technological considerations associated with hydrogen, the project has reached out to other Faculties to promote cross-disciplinary engagement and reduce/remove barriers to participation.
The project drafted an overview of inclusive research principles at different stages in the research proposal development process.
Contact: Prof Lenny Koh and Dr Melanie Knight
Outputs: Inclusive research principles: From research proposal to delivery (PDF, 210KB)
The project team conducted a survey of research cultural factors that enable or constrain research, and specifically whether factors relate to different levels of the university structure and/or the internal and external academic social hierarchy.
A number of recommendations were listed,  such as the need for more informal meeting places, physical spaces/events for networking, better support for interdisciplinary research, ensuring research centres and leaders are inclusive and supportive, and broadening from a too-narrow REF focus of what research counts and gets support.
The University of Sheffield is recognised as being a 'good brand' that provides support in a human-centred way and holds research as part of the culture of the institution, which led some to state that they are proud to say that they work for the University.
Contact: Prof Don Webber and Dr Steven Pattinson
The project fostered stronger bonds between Sheffield and external partners in the public sector, including a branch of Sheffield City Council and the archives at the International Labour Organisation (ILO).
We developed a review of relevant sources at the ILO Archives, ethics clearance and questions for oral history interviews on our subject, interviews and transcripts, a review of relevant digitised sources for our research, a series of posters for an event to disseminate the findings of our project, and a large grant proposal that will feed into a number of significant outputs that have drawn on this research.
Contact: Dr Julia Moses
The main aim of this project was to increase research productivity and improve well-being by working with colleagues to reimagine the research environment and change how individuals feel about and undertake their research activities.
We have established a new weekly ‘lunch’ series to provide opportunities to discuss current research with colleagues, monthly peer-support groups to help set and achieve research goals, and increased engagement in research support meetings.
More generally, the project has improved the sense of collegiality in the department.
We found that many of the factors affecting research culture are not linked to research at all – they concern general workload, time management, emailing, marking practices, the unequal demands of pastoral care and opportunities to socialise with colleagues in a relaxed environment.
Contact: Prof Emma Moore and Prof Jane Hodson
The project activities included a workshop which increased networking and connectivity between researchers in Arts and Humanities and Social Sciences.
The project improved insight into working with underrepresented groups, promoting their voice, stories and needs, and challenges and opportunities associated with it.
Contact: Prof Renee Timmers and Bronwen Ray
The project involved one-to-one coaching of targeted mid-career academics.
Contact: Prof Lauren Rea
The project developed activities to support research centres and groups within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities:
After the pandemic, these activities have contributed to boosting the vibrancy of the research centres, promoting the integration of ECRs in the centres, and planning ahead for the coming years of research centres.
Contact: Prof Renee Timmers , Bronwen Ray , Prof Stephanie Pitts , Dr Charlotte Steenbrugge , Dr Danica Summerlin , Dr Jane Rempel and Dr Jamie Coates
The project activities included an Open Research Roadshow, the inaugural OpenFest , open innovation and permissive licences report, an established open research working group and coordination with national projects.
The work has highlighted that open research requires adaptation across different disciplinary contexts, but the principles (and support available) are in common.
Contact: Dr Tom Stafford , Dr Adam Partridge and the Library Scholarly Communications team .
The project developed checklists explaining how to make data and software FAIR in pilot departments, and created a series of FAIR case study videos .
Contact: Rosie Higman, Library Scholarly Communications team
Published article: Supporting FAIR Data Management Planning Across Different Disciplines at the University of Sheffield
The project has allowed a number of programmes/sessions to be piloted that we have previously wished to develop/run but didn’t have the resources.
The sessions were in the areas of developing women’s research careers, research leadership development and supporting careers of researchers.
A series of videos have been produced of researchers/research support staff discussing their hopes for the implementation of the Researcher Concordat.
Contact: Dr Lucy Lee, Research Services
The project piloted two sessions on team development and leadership into a one day off-site course.
The pilot demonstrated the usefulness of a team building day for staff that provides the opportunity to develop team and leadership skills to improve the research culture and support their career development.
It was suggested that it would be a good idea to provide this on a research group basis to help them bond together.
This would also provide the opportunity to clarify the team's goals and how they contribute to these, increase collaboration for the future and develop healthier behaviours.
The session will be offered as part of The Researcher as Manager programme .
Contact: Eunice Lawton, Research Services
The NTDC has collaborated with the Technician Commitment Survey Team to develop and launch a bespoke Technician Survey aimed at all technical staff at the University of Sheffield who are supported by the Technician Commitment.
The survey will help to identify upcoming skills gaps amongst the technical workforce at the University of Sheffield.
This will benefit not just the university, but also technical staff, for example, when identifying staff requirements for upcoming research projects.
It will also help to identify staff currently working within the university who have skillsets which may be applicable to future projects too - offering potential career development for individual staff too.
The data from the survey will feed into the University’s Technician Commitment, which will in turn help to develop and nurture visible and effective career pathways to help support technical staff.
Contact: Sara Bacon , Jared Carnie and Jake Green
This project looks to diversify the recruitment into technical careers by highlighting the barriers to technical careers perceived by young people.
In helping fill the gap in the technical sector currently being experienced within HE, this project will contribute to a bettering of research culture by helping to reduce overworking.
Activities included designing and building a survey for University students on their perception of technical careers.
Alongside that, focus groups were designed and are being run with pupils in schools and colleges from the local area.
The project has found that young people have extremely little knowledge of technical careers, HE institutions are not viewed as employers, and instances of negative treatment in the workplace have impacted university students perception of technical careers
This knowledge can be used to evidence the need for outreach and recruitment programme for technical careers.
Contact: Jake Green
In this project we reviewed existing research that examines university partnership work with racially marginalised organisations in the UK.
We also conducted interviews with the Centre's partners to discuss their experiences of university partnership work - the challenges, the successes, and possible solutions- and compiled resulting information into an accessible report that will inform the Centre's policy and practice.
Over the next three years, the Centre for Equity and Inclusion will be funding knowledge exchange projects co-designed by PGR students and local external partners to address issues of racial justice within and beyond the University.
The project report will inform the approach that the Centre takes to engaging partner organisations in this work, as well as feeding into KR training for PGR students.
The Centre will also disseminate the findings to staff involved with KE across the University, resulting in more equitable practices being implemented by staff and students when engaging in collaborative and KE work with external partners, and provideing training in this area to approximately 30 PGR students per year.
Contact: Dr Nicola Hemmings and Dr Alex Mason
In this project we undertook an appraisal of institutional challenges for supporting and supervising students from racially marginalised backgrounds across the University, including planning and conducting interviews with PGR students across the faculties, and analysing data from these interviews).
We used the findings to create a report which fed into the development of an evidence-based supervisor training package as part of Think Ahead and the Supervisionaries programme, which will be compulsory for all PGR supervisors.
The researcher development team have identified this as a gap in their provision and expertise, and together we planned the delivery of the new programme for the coming academic year.
As a result of this project, PGR supervisors will benefit from enhanced knowledge and understanding of the challenges faced by PGR students from racially marginalised backgrounds and increased racial literacy.
In turn, PGR students from racially marginalised backgrounds will benefit from a more informed and supportive community of academics.
Contact: Dr Nicola Hemmings
Enhancing Research Culture: 2022-23 projects

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/clean-energy:
We make a significant contribution to addressing the global climate crisis and supporting the UK's transition to Net Zero.
Our clean energy R&D is helping to build a greener, more sustainable future, creating jobs and driving economic growth in Sheffield and beyond.
Our clean energy innovation and research expertise will enable us to make a significant contribution to addressing the global climate crisis and supporting the transition to low-carbon energy.
Focusing on R&D in four key areas allows us to support the UK’s ambitions for both a greener, more sustainable future and for increased wealth creation and economic growth.
Opportunities in nuclear, hydrogen, sustainable fuels and carbon capture and storage could lead to increased investment, jobs and facilities for South Yorkshire, which has a growing reputation as the best place for the development and delivery of clean energy technology in the UK.”
Professor Sue Hartley, Vice-President for Research and Innovation
At the heart of our clean energy R&D are four priority areas:
These areas have been chosen to build on our areas of academic strength and expertise.
They also allow us to develop industrial partnerships, to attract inward investment to the region and deliver opportunities for economic growth in South Yorkshire.
Date : 11-12 September 2025
Venue : Magna Science Adventure Centre, Magna Way, Templeborough, Rotherham, UK, United Kingdom
Join us at The UK Clean Energy Summit 2025 , where we’ll be showcasing the latest and greatest in clean energy innovation.
From hydrogen and sustainable aviation fuels to carbon capture, small modular reactors, and beyond, the future of energy will be on display.
Expect an action-packed day of inspiring keynotes, dynamic panel discussions, and hands-on workshops – all focused on cutting-edge breakthroughs and the power of regional collaboration in reaching net-zero goals.
Register to attend here
We have unrivalled expertise in developing cutting-edge manufacturing techniques.
In collaboration with industry partners, we're developing small modular reactors - a clean energy source that's easier to scale and more affordable than building larger nuclear power plants.
We're home to some of the best pilot-scale testing facilities in the UK, enabling us to rapidly transform hydrogen research into market-ready solutions.
We are helping to decarbonise heavy industry and developing hydrogen fuels for sustainable aviation.
Our new Sustainable Aviation Fuels Innovation Centre (SAF-IC) helps make vital jet travel more sustainable for the industry and our planet.
We are the only UK hub where partners can develop, test, validate and certify new zero-carbon and sustainable aviation fuels – all in one place.
Our CCUS research and innovation aims to reduce and even eliminate carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel power plants and heavy industry.
Our facilities enable industrial and academic partners to develop, demonstrate and test low-carbon energy technology solutions.
The Rolls-Royce SMR Module Development Facility (MDF), which will be housed in the University of Sheffield Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre’s existing Factory 2050, is set to manufacture and test prototype modules for small modular reactors (SMRs).
With the help of engineers from the University of Sheffield, Flight100 by Virgin Atlantic marks a major milestone in the development of sustainable aviation fuels, as the first commercial airline to use SAF to fly across the Atlantic.
Runway Park is the University of Sheffield's Innovation District which is home to specialist translational R&D centres developing solutions to the most pressing challenges in clean energy:
Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC)
Translational Energy Research Centre (TERC)
Sustainable Aviation Fuels-Innovation Centre (SAF-IC)
Stay up to date with the latest world-changing advances from across the University of Sheffield.
Join the mailing list
Speak to our External Relations team if you'd like to know more about our work in clean energy R&D.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-pillars:
Our University’s core purpose is to deliver world-class research, innovation and education.
We will do this by working as One University.
These equally important four pillars underpin our vision.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-pillars/innovation:
Our transformative research and enterprise will address the world’s most pressing challenges.
We will continue to grow and strengthen our impact, knowledge exchange and innovation activity.
We will develop and extend the Advanced Manufacturing Group model for collaborative working across the UK, and use the approach as an exemplar of good practice across the University.
We will use our excellence in research, education and knowledge exchange to play a leading role in the whole of the South Yorkshire, including its economy; the health and wellbeing of its people and its environment; and its cultural richness and diversity.
Our scientists have developed a novel type of MRI scan that produces unique images of the lungs using hyperpolarised xenon gas, picking up on abnormalities previously undetected with routine tests.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-pillars/education:
Our research-led programmes will inspire, enthuse and challenge a diverse community of outstanding students.
Our graduates will be equipped to stand out as confident global citizens guided by strong values, ethics and standards, able to make meaningful contributions to society.
We will shape and deliver a balanced research-informed portfolio of programmes, which serves the needs of students and develops graduates with the knowledge and skills for successful careers.
We will deliver a sector-leading vision for employability which captures the value of learning and development experiences in and beyond the curriculum.
Our vision realises the benefits of the University’s rich network of regional, national and international alumni and employer partners to enable all students to fulfil their learning and career potential.
We will design and deliver a rich, multifaceted and inclusive digital teaching and learning environment that supports excellent and inspiring teaching and enables all students to engage effectively in their learning.
Architecture students are helping Sheffield connect with its past and its future, as well as gaining vital experience of the working world, thanks to our pioneering Live Projects programme.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-pillars/one-university:
We will build a diverse community of staff and students from a broad range of backgrounds, demographics and cultures, and create an inclusive, supportive and collaborative environment in which they can succeed and flourish.
We will foster a collaborative culture where staff and students are all active participants in the success of the University.
We will build a diverse community of staff and students that recognises and values the abilities, backgrounds, beliefs and ways of living for everyone.
Our culture should ensure all members of the University community feel they belong and are treated with respect.
We will create a positive environment that supports and encourages the wellbeing of our staff and students, whilst empowering individuals to be responsible for their own wellbeing.
We will aim to be one of the most environmentally sustainable research-intensive universities in the country, ensuring that sustainability runs through everything we do: the education we provide for our students; the world-class research and innovation we carry out; and our campus operations and local environment.
We will launch the University’s first multi-million-pound fundraising and engagement campaign, to increase and diversify philanthropic income and help create a sense of belonging and participation amongst our staff, students and alumni.
Building a sustainable future means means transforming the way we educate the next generation of environmental advocates.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-story:
115 years in the making, our story continues to evolve every day, defined not just by our achievements but by the unique character of our people and this remarkable city.
The University of Sheffield has a proud history of discovery, innovation and social change.
In 1930, we pioneered the very first medical use of penicillin, while more recently our researchers developed a lifesaving drug for the treatment of ovarian and breast cancer.
Our motto “Rerum Cognoscere Causas” (to discover the causes of things), is as relevant today as when we were founded in 1905.
However, the world is now a very different place.
As the world has evolved, so have we.
As we have grown, so have our ambitions.
Now we don’t just want to understand the world, we want to change it.
We believe in bold action and are unified in the knowledge that we can transform the world we live in for the better.
Today, we are pioneering research into sustainable farming to safeguard the world’s food supply, recreating the interiors of the Chernobyl and Fukushima nuclear reactors to aid the clean-up process, and working with the world’s biggest social media companies to protect vulnerable users from harmful content.
We’re focused on equipping our students for life after Sheffield and our outstanding research-led teaching is empowering the next generation of global citizens.
Our students have gone on to be bestselling authors, gold medal-winning Olympians and even groundbreaking astronauts.
We’re proud of the difference we’ve made and continue to make.
Our academic thought, research, and creativity energise the world around us.
This starts right here in our home city of Sheffield.
We care deeply about this place.
Its spirit fuels our people.
Just like Sheffield, we were forged and shaped by invention.
We push, we explore, we innovate, we define.
We make things, and we make things happen.
It’s who we are.
Yet we’ve always looked to the wider world for inspiration and collaboration, welcoming students and staff from over 140 countries and nurturing research and alumni links across the world.
These partnerships not only provide international opportunities for our people but also drive investment locally.
This is a global university.
Not just in our outlook, not just in our ambition, but in the challenges we tackle every day.
None of this would be possible without our outstanding people, who drive our progress.
Their innovation and initiative take the world in new directions: from developing the first new compound to kill antibiotic-resistant superbugs in 50 years, to powering industrial innovation and securing jobs through the Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre.
It’s our people who are unlocking the potential of the next generation with inspirational teaching and cutting-edge apprenticeships focused on the skills of the future.
The sense of community spirit here at Sheffield is like no other.
Our staff and students work together.
They support and inspire one another.
Our diverse and inclusive community brings together different views, approaches and insights, leading to richer, more creative and innovative teaching and research.
We know that to remain a world-class university we must be a truly inclusive university.
This is why our ‘One University’ ethos is central to our vision.
Our vision
Our pillars

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-values:
We are, and will always be, guided by our values:
We are ambitious and strive for excellence in all that we do.
We believe in collaborative working.
We champion an inclusive and diverse community.
We are responsible – for our people and the wider world.
We are open and transparent about the decisions we make.
Our story

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-pillars/research/excellence:
At the University of Sheffield, we value originality, rigour, integrity, and openness in our research, as well as the high quality outputs and outcomes that result from it.
Research outputs and outcomes of the highest quality and significance are the bedrock of our academic reputation.
We will assess the excellence of individual researchers, research entities and the institution through reference to these outputs, and to ambitious research collaborations, rigour and integrity of the research process, generous support for the research careers of others and a collegial and inclusive approach to the diverse contributions of colleagues at all stages of their careers.
Regardless of discipline, we value, support and reward research processes that are collegiate and ambitious, as well as deliver a diversity of world-leading outputs and outcomes that are based upon quality not quantity, in line with our adoption of DORA .
Our excellence will be founded upon a set of appropriate behaviours that emphasise quality and integrity and contribute to a vibrant research culture which encourages shared ambition and recognises that both lone scholarship and team-based research have a role to play in achieving our goals.
This will be underpinned by generous, inclusive research leadership that drives excellence through placing strong emphasis on equality and diversity and nurturing the development of future generations of research leaders.
Examples of the desired aspects of research processes and the outputs and outcomes which deliver and recognise excellence include:
Read about our commitment to support the career development of our researchers via the Researcher Development Concordat and about our commitment to open research .
Priority two: Postgraduate Research Students

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/vision/our-pillars/research/postgraduate-research-students:
Priority one: Excellence

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/killing-cancer-cells-trojan-horse:
An exciting proposed venture from the Department of Oncology and Metabolism is using nanomaterials such as magnetic coatings to cloak cancer-killing viruses, preventing attacks from the immune system.
Much like a Trojan horse, the coatings trick the immune system and allow doctors to guide the virus through the body directly to the tumour.
Funded by Cancer Research UK and led by Principal Investigator Dr Munnita Muthana, an enterprising team at Sheffield are seeking to commercialise their research to bring it closer to patients with cancer.
According to Cancer Research UK, every two minutes someone in the UK is diagnosed with cancer.
Cancer occurs when a group of normal cells have abnormal growth and form a lump called a tumour (apart from blood cancers).
If left untreated, the tumour can uncontrollably grow and spread to other parts of the body.
Solid tumours can usually be surgically removed alongside other treatment methods such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
While cancer survival in the UK is improving and has doubled in the last 40 years, there are different types of cancer drugs and drug combinations that all have individual side effects.
Cancer such as Melanoma skin cancer spreads across the skin and cannot be removed with surgery.
In this case, treatment options include a drug injection of a modified virus that infects and kills tumour cells.
However, this method involves a high dosage of a virus that causes a reaction from the immune system leading to side effects such as blood clots, increased blood pressure and inflammation of organs such as the lungs.
Senior Lecturer Dr Munitta Muthana, Dr Faith Howard and PhD student Natalie Winder set out to find a way to ensure the cancer-killing virus can survive in the bloodstream long enough to reach cancer cells intact, without being attacked by our body’s immune system.
Their paper has been awarded the Roger Griffin Prize for cancer drug discovery and the Sheffield team are expanding the range of tumours that can be tackled this way.
The team are seeking to establish a spinout company based on their revolutionary technology with hopes of accelerating the treatment to reach patients.
“There’s a clear appetite for our offering and we’re working closely with the University’s Tech Transfer team to progress our proposed venture.
As a team of three female co-founders, we’re proud of our achievements so far and have received a lot of interest and support from female venture capitalists” says Dr Faith Howard.
It is well-established that certain viruses have the ability to kill cancer cells.
Known as oncolytic viruses, these viruses can be found naturally or modified in a laboratory to efficiently reproduce and attack cancer cells without harming healthy cells.
For example, a modified herpes virus is now being used to treat people with certain types of skin cancer.
When this virus infects a cancer cell, the virus makes copies of itself until the cancer cell bursts open and dies.
The dying cell releases materials that allow the cancer to be recognised and killed by the immune system.
The challenge is in ensuring the cancer-killing virus actually reaches its target.
Current approaches require the virus to be delivered through surgery or injection but this only works for easily accessible tumours.
Viruses travelling far in the bloodstream to tumour sites do not tend to survive as the immune system attacks them.
In most cases, a very high dose of virus is needed which can cause significant side effects for the patient.
A proposed new venture from the University of Sheffield aims to take forward a novel approach to hide the oncolytic viruses from the immune system and only release the virus once they reach the cancer site.
Funded by Cancer Research UK and EU Horizons Europe the Sheffield team has found a solution to direct the virus quickly to a tumour.
This revolutionary method coats the virus in protective magnetic particles allowing it to move freely in the body without being blocked by immune defences.
Magnets are then placed over a patient's body to guide the therapy to the tumour.
Similar to a Trojan horse, this approach hides the virus inside a nanoparticle only to be released once it reaches the tumour where it kills cells.
“Our research explored ways to target tumours while leaving healthy cells alone.
This method of precision medicine has the potential to provide new treatments as well as repurpose drugs that are currently available but too harmful to be released ‘naked’ into the bloodstream.
The coating technique allows any virus to enter the body at a much lower dose which significantly reduces side effects of a high dosage for patients” explains Dr Faith Howard.
“Currently, viruses need to be injected into the bloodstream at very high doses or directly into the tumour which is an invasive procedure.
Our encapsulating technique means that the amount of virus used can be significantly reduced which will lessen the risk of side effects for the patient.
The nanoparticle carrier can also be modified to work for any cancer” she adds.
As part of the University of Sheffield’s cancer research strategy , this research has been proven to reduce tumour size in pre-clinical prostate, brain and breast cancer models.
The team hope that this novel approach could be used to fight a range of advanced cancers, which are typically hard to treat.
Globally, many companies genetically modify viruses to target specific cancers but there is a huge barrier in delivering this virus directly to the tumour.
There are widespread concerns about injecting viruses directly into the bloodstream but the encapsulating method developed by the team provides a safer and more effective solution to this problem.
With the support of Dr Jordan MacInnes from the Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering, the team have developed a prototype device that enables rapid large-scale production of these Trojan-horse platforms that is on track to outperform existing competition.
The study represents a proof of concept but the small, portable device is at the centre of a proposed commercial venture led by the team with plans to share the technology with researchers and pharmaceutical companies worldwide.
The Venture Builder Incubator is a national programme delivered by the University of Edinburgh, in partnership with Barclays Eagle Labs and Cancer Research Horizons.
The programme provides PhD students and early career researchers from all over the UK with the skills and knowledge to maximise the impact of their research.
It has attracted £1.8m in funding to date, allowing researchers to explore investment opportunities.
Faith and Natalie’s place on the programme was one of ten places sponsored by Cancer Research Horizons, the commercialisation arm of Cancer Research UK.
The Showcase brought together 23 companies from all over the country.
The Sheffield pair were one of ten teams selected to pitch to a panel of judges and live audience with expertise across sectors, including entrepreneurs and investors in early-stage startups.
The Showcase was the culmination of a four-month intensive programme, during which participants received training and advice to accelerate the translation of their research.
Faith and Natalie were awarded the judges’ choice award for best pitch and received a cash prize of £4,000 to kick-start their aspiring new venture.
“The incubator was a great introduction to launching a business and has helped us attract interest from key stakeholders.
We are currently using part of this prize money for market research before we launch and disseminate our product widely with academic and pharmaceutical industries” says Dr Faith Howard.
“There is a lot of potential to partner with pharmaceutical companies to use our platform technology to enhance the performance of active drugs available on the market.
We can only get so far with pre-clinical modelling and funding so collaborations with larger companies will be a key step towards further clinical trials and reaching patients” she adds.
The team is currently on the University’s Commercialisation Journey and to bring their product closer to market, are also taking part in the Innovation to Commercialisation of University Research (ICURe) led by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC).
The programme trains, funds, and supports research teams to validate commercial ideas.
The team are engaging with stakeholders such as pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and researchers to explore industries where the technology for encapsulation of sensitive biological agents can be used.
In years to come, Dr Faith Howard hopes the proposed new venture will bring about a non-invasive, kinder alternative to the standard of care for patients with cancer.
The treatment has the potential to reduce pressure on the healthcare system as it would be delivered in outpatient clinics, providing more capacity for patients needing treatments that require an overnight stay.
As well as the anticipated fewer side effects due to a much lower dose of the virus, this standard of care has the potential to dramatically reduce patients’ tumours and improve outcomes of survival.
Our early tests have been encouraging but we’re now focusing on taking the next steps to bring this technique to a stage where it can be administered on humans.
The rigorous market research we are currently conducting as part of the University of Sheffield's commercialisation journey, as well as on ICURe, will give our new venture the best chance of success and we're excited about the future.
Dr Faith Howard
Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Department of Oncology and Metabolism
This work is just one example of translating research within the University of Sheffield’s ambitious cancer research strategy .
Through the new strategy, the University aims to prevent cancer-related deaths through ground-breaking research, leading to more effective treatments, as well as methods to better prevent and detect cancer and improve quality of life.
Written by Alina Moore, Research Communications Coordinator
For further information contact a.l.huxtable@sheffield.ac.uk
Vacancies available: join our cancer research team
Sheffield Cancer research
The Guardian: Magnets made by soil bacteria offer hope for breast and prostate …
Cancer Research UK: Feeling the pull: Using magnetic drug targeting to improve …
Paper: Targeting circulating monocytes with CCL2-loaded liposomes armed with an…
Nanoncolytics - project page
Read more of our research impact

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/ueb/team-profiles/professor-sue-hartley:
Sue leads on the University’s research and innovation activity, including research excellence, University Research Centres, Research Excellence Framework (REF), research income and impact, as well as overseeing the University’s innovation, partnerships, and commercialisation activities.
Sue joined the University in January 2020 as Vice-President for Research.
Sue now leads on the University’s research and innovation activity, including research excellence, the centres of excellence , the Research Excellence Framework (REF), research income and impact, as well as overseeing the University’s innovation, partnerships, and commercialisation activities.
Before coming to Sheffield, Sue was Director of the York Environmental Sustainability Institute, a pioneering interdisciplinary research partnership generating solutions to global environmental challenges, at the University of York.
She was also the University of York's Research Champion for Environmental Sustainability and Resilience, driving a range of research activities with colleagues from multiple disciplines and external partners.
Sue has served as a trustee of Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew , as a board member of Natural England , the UK Government’s statutory adviser for the natural environment in England, and as President of the British Ecological Society .
Her research interests focus on understanding how plants adapt to their environment and how they defend themselves against the organisms that attack them.
The findings improve the resilience of crops to climate change, inform agricultural policy, and aim to increase the environmental sustainability of agriculture.
Meet the team

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/arts-humanities/research:
The vibrant research and innovation in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities plays a major role in making the University of Sheffield a world-class research institution.
School of History, Philosophy and Digital Humanities
School of Languages, Arts and Societies
School of Law
Explore the impact of artificial intelligence on society — from reimagining creativity to transforming law and challenging ethical frameworks, this campaign reveals both the promise and the peril of AI.
The faculty is helping to reimagine humanity’s place in the natural world, win the arguments needed to make real change, and equip new generations with the skills needed to tackle the climate crisis.
Professor Susan Fitzmaurice explores the value and importance of Arts and Humanities Research to society.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/las/people/music-staff/nicola-dibben:
BSc(Hons), MA, MEd, PhD, FHEA
Professor of Music
(she/her)
Faculty Director of Research and Innovation, Arts and Humanities
Full contact details
My academic experience combines teaching, research and knowledge exchange in the science and psychology of music, alongside leadership roles supporting collaborative and interdisciplinary research.
I am particularly interested in music listening and what that engagement means for individuals' self-perception and understanding of the world.
I work in three overlapping areas: music cognition, popular music studies and music digitalisation.
My teaching is informed by my empirical research into how people perceive and understand musical structures and meanings.
My research has used listening studies, interviews, surveys, music analysis and theory to understand the meanings and emotions that individuals experience with music.
I use these to show how important constructs, such as our gender and our relationship to the natural world are encountered and shaped through music.
Much of this work focuses on popular music, and in 2011, after publishing a book on Björk’s music , I collaborated with Björk on her multimedia album-app Biophilia - the first album for tablet computer.
More recently my interest in digital transformations has been focused on synthetic media and co-developing assistive AI music generation technologies with computer scientists ( MIMA ) and professional musicians.
We’re doing this not just to create inspiring and ethical tools for musicians, but as a ‘live lab’ to better understand the impacts of these emerging technologies.
Social justice has been a recurring theme in my work, most explicitly through my investigation of social and environmental action through music in Colombia and the UK.
In 2022 I received an honorary doctorate from the University of Oslo for my contributions to music studies.
I hold degrees from City University of London and the University of Sheffield and have had visiting appointments at several international institutions.
My research focuses on the experience and production of (popular) music in contemporary culture.
My current research projects include:
I am a member of the Muses Mind Machine research centre and regularly collaborate with MiMA: Machine Intelligence for Music and Audio .
I have extensive supervisory experience and am happy to support highly qualified doctoral and postdoctoral candidates who wish to work with psychologically-informed approaches  to answer important research questions in music and AI, the experience of new musical multimedia, or music in science communication and environmentalism.
See the information on applying for a PhD .
I am on the editorial board of the open access White Rose University Press and former editor of the journals Popular Music and Empirical Musicology Review.
I am advisory board member to a number of international centres of excellence, panel member for national and international funders and research bodies, including subpanel member for the Research Excellence Framework in 2014, 2021 and 2025 People, Culture, Environment pilot exercise (Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies).

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/research:
Renowned for our research excellence, distinctiveness and growth, our culture of interdisciplinary, collaborative working and strong partnerships produces research with impact, driven by today’s global challenges, from zero-carbon energy, sustainable infrastructure and manufacturing to health and AI
We are proud to have come 8th in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 in terms of the quality of our research.
We are rated as top nationally for the quality of our research environment, showing that Engineering at Sheffield is a vibrant, innovative and supportive place to undertake research.
(REF 2021)
Sheffield engineers are leading and involved in new engineering networks to address key strategic challenges and support future growth.
Professor Bill Nimmo, Professor of Energy Engineering and Sustainability, visited China at the end of last year, on a month-long exercise to forge mutually beneficial collaborations between Sheffield and the higher education sector in China.
Professor Timothy O'Farrell from the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering contributes to a new UK Government Parliamentary Post on 6G mobile technology
Search for PhD opportunities in engineering and be part of our world-leading research.
Find your way through the mechanics of a PhD in Engineering - from making your application to setting out on your career.
Professional development for researchers, including early career academics.
Take advantage of it

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/cmbe/people/cbe-academic-staff/mark-dickman:
School of Chemical, Materials and Biological Engineering
Professor in Bioanalytical Science and Engineering
Personal Chair
Chair of Research Committee
I obtained a First Class Honours Degree in Biochemistry/Chemistry at the University of Sheffield.
I continued at the Krebs Institute, where I obtained my PhD.
Following my PhD I joined a biotechnology company, Transgenomic LTD where I worked as a research scientist developing analytical techniques including DNA/RNA Chromatography.
I joined the Dept of Chemical and Biological Engineering in 2003.
Nucleic acid therapeutics including oligonucleotide therapeutics and mRNA vaccines/therapeutics are emerging as an important new class of drugs to treat a wide range of important diseases.
My research focuses on the development and application analytical techniques to study biological molecules.
In particular, bioseparations in conjunction with biological mass spectrometry are used to characterise and analyse nucleic acid therapeutics.
Key research interests:
Industry Partners include:
CPE 240 Engineering From Living Systems 2
We work closely with a number of industrial partners including Syngenta , GlaxoSmithKline , and ThermoFisher .
Sheffield Institute for Nucleic Acids (SInFoNi)

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/health/research:
We are committed to excellence in research and are conducting internationally excellent research in all our departments.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/dentalschool/our-people/academic-staff/paul-hatton:
BSc, PhD, FIMMM
School of Clinical Dentistry
Professor of Biomaterials Science
Faculty Director for Research and Innovation
Paul Hatton joined the School in 1992 as a Non-Clinical Lecturer in Biomaterials Science following postdoctoral research funded by the Medical Research Council, industry, and European Commission, in the Department of Biomedical Sciences.
He was promoted to a Personal Chair in 2002, and took over the role of Director of Research in 2016.
He applies this expertise extensively in undergraduate and postgraduate education, and is well known for his passionate support of academic-industrial collaboration and knowledge exchange to drive economic growth and benefit society.
Research interests are centred on the interaction of living cells and tissues with synthetic and processed natural materials used in the manufacture of medical devices or related regenerative medicine technologies.
He has published extensively on innovative materials including nanostructured and bioinspired systems, their safety and biocompatibility, and demonstrated how a range of physcial and biological modifications may be applied to enhance biofunctionality and potentially improve clinical performance.
Grants and contracts held as primary investigator exceed £3million to date, and further co-investigator associated income to the University is approximately £6.5million.
Current and recent grants include:
I provide lectures, seminars and workshops on dental materials subjects to taught postgraduate (MSc) and undergraduate (BDS, Hygiene & Therapy, BSc) students, and additional teaching on tissue engineering and regenerative medicine for courses in the Faculty of Engineering.
I provide lectures, seminars and workshops on dental materials subjects to taught postgraduate and undergraduate (BDS and Hygiene & Therapy) students, and additional teaching on tissue engineering and regenerative medicine for courses in the Faculty of Engineering.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/science/research:
We have four overarching strategic themes, from the fundamental to translational.
They are drawn from our rich history, our skills and experience.They portray our aspirations, acting collectively, to address global challenges.
The Faculty of Science Knowledge Exchange Team is available to unite academic experts from the University of Sheffield's science departments with colleagues from the public and private sectors, to develop new products, processes and services.
Visit the Knowledge Exchange page
A dedicated team at the heart of supporting the University's delivery of research and impact across many sectors.
Discover more about our people and how you can be a part of it.
Visit Research, Partnerships & Innovation website
Our support for externally funded research fellowships is designed to establish you as a research leader in an ambitious, vibrant and supportive environment.
Visit fellowships webpage for more information

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/biosciences/people/academic-staff/andrew-fleming:
School of Biosciences
Chair in Plant Science
Our research is focused on understanding the mechanism of leaf development.
In particular, we are interested in the interplay of cell growth and division, how these parameters are integrated into the developmental program controlling leaf structure, and the impact the resultant internal cellular architecture has on leaf function- particularly photosynthesis and water-use efficiency.
We take an integrated systems approach, using experimental data derived from advanced imaging, biochemistry and physiology to inform computational models, which we then use to develop testable hypotheses on how structure relates to function, utilising a range of genetic and experimental approaches to alter specific elements of the modelled system.
We have developed a keen interest in guard cells, working closely with the Gray lab and other partners to investigate how cell wall structure sets the limits for stomatal function and, thus, gas exchange in leaves.
This work extends to seeking to understand how stomatal and mesophyll differentiation are co-ordinated, how mesophyll air space is formed, and the control of mesophyll cell shape and separation.
Our most recent work extends to wall structure at the nanoscale via collaborations with the Hobbs and Amsbury groups.
These projects have allowed us to form valuable collaborations with colleagues around the globe with a view to potential applications of our research, with ongoing work in the UK looking at wheat leaf development and water-use, and research on sustainable rice production with researchers in China and Malaysia.
Show: Featured publications All publications
Reflecting my research interests, my main teaching involves aspects of plant development.
How something apparently simple (a cell) becomes something incredibly complicated (a mature, multicellular organism) in a robust and reproducible fashion?
In plants, structure and function are closely entwined, with my teaching covering fundamental aspects of biochemistry, physiology, cell biology and genetics.
I currently co-ordinate and teach on the following module: BIS106 Plant Science: How to make a plant This is an introductory module on plant biology, encompassing development, growth and reproduction, as well as how plant interactions with microbes underpin much of life on the planet.
The course also includes an introduction to fungi- the hugely important class of organisms which are strangely ignored in many biology courses.
I also lecture on BIS316 Future Plants: From laboratory to field My lectures in this third year module focus on some of the "Grand Challenges" in plant and crop biology, with an emphasis on efforts to engineer plants with improved photosynthesis, nutrition and water-use.
Lab webpage

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/social-sciences/research:
Creating global change by exploring some of society’s most complex challenges.
Social Sciences brings together the brightest minds at the forefront of knowledge.
Our research centres build lasting partnerships with researchers, policymakers, NGOs and businesses.
Find out how we are tackling the housing crisis, climate change, economic recovery, pandemic prevention and much more.
Our researchers are working to understand the impact of life stages, care systems and information technology on health and wellbeing around the world.
The world is changing.
We need future-focused solutions to climate change, sustainable global development and the political economy.
Marginalised and minority groups face barriers in society.
We’re working to make society more inclusive, from research into physical communities through to digital technologies.
From embedding innovative processes in your business to crafting evidence-led policy, you can access our world-leading research and build lasting partnerships that drive change.
We welcome expressions of interest from high-quality, early-career candidates whose research interests align with those of colleagues across the Faculty of Social Sciences’ academic departments and interdisciplinary research institutes and centres .

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/geography-planning/people/academic-research/david-robinson:
School of Geography and Planning
Professor
Professor of Housing and Urban Studies
My interest in housing and urban studies first emerged during my undergraduate studies in geography at the University of Newcastle Upon Tyne and was subsequently pursued through a PhD in the Department of Geography at the University of Edinburgh.
Following a post-doctoral research position at Loughborough University, I moved to the Centre for Regional Economic and Social Research at Sheffield Hallam University where I was based for 20 years.
I joined the University of Sheffield in 2016.
I have held a number of leadership roles at Sheffield, including Head of the Department of Geography and Head of the Department of Urban Studies and Planning.
I am a co-investigator in the UK Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence (CaCHE) and a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.
I am a trustee of the Housing Studies Charitable Trust and a member of the international editorial advisory board of the Housing Studies journal, having previously served as a managing editor.
My research practice is situated at the interface of planning, geography and social policy and focuses on exposing and understanding contemporary challenges in urban society and critically analysing the responses of policy and practice.
Much of my career has been spent at the interface of knowledge and action.
My work is dominated by an interest in questions of how inequality arises, the associated burdens and benefits, and issues of social justice.
Housing is a key research interest.
Decent, secure housing provides more than just a roof over someone’s head.
It is a place of safety and security.
It can promote health and well-being and inform life chances.
My work has sought to expose and understand inequalities in access to these benefits within the UK housing system; related processes of urban transformation; and associated consequences for people and places.
Particular areas of interest include housing for an ageing population; housing inequalities; the politics and provision of social housing; and housing policy debates.
Other broad areas of research interest include the politics of community and a place-based approach to understanding experiences of new migration.
Current and Recent Research Projects
UK Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence (Economic & Social Research Council, Arts & Humanities Research Council)
I welcome applications for PhD research on topics related to any of my main research interests.
My approach to teaching is rooted in a commitment to promoting positive change within society by bringing expertise and knowledge to bear on contemporary challenges facing public policy, whilst simultaneously engaging in philosophising about the way things are and might be.
My teaching contributions centre on contemporary housing issues and challenges, including the problems that particular groups encounter negotiating a satisfactory residential settlement within the contemporary housing system.
I teach on modules, including:
I also supervise undergraduate and postgraduate dissertation projects and am actively involved in PhD supervision.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/what-ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the excellence of research in UK higher education institutions.
The REF outcomes are used to inform the allocation of around £2 billion per year of public funding for universities’ research.
Our impact case studies demonstrate the benefits of this investment, highlighting how our research improves society and economic prosperity.
The results also affect institutional reputation and inform strategic decisions about national research priorities.
The REF was first carried out in 2014, replacing the previous Research Assessment Exercise.
The latest exercise was submitted in 2021, with the results published in May 2022.
The REF is a process of peer review, carried out by expert panels for each of the 34 subject-based units of assessment (UOAs).
These panels are made up of senior academics, international members, and professionals from the private, public and charitable sectors with experience of working with research.
For each submission, three distinct elements are assessed: the quality of outputs (e.g.
journal articles, books, designs), the impact of our research beyond academia, and the environment that supports research.
These are weighted and then aggregated to form an overall profile.
The panels use their expertise to grade each item submitted from 4* (outstanding work) through to 1* (with an unclassified grade awarded if the work falls below the standard expected or is deemed not to meet the eligibility rules).
Our REF results
Our research impact
Research Excellence Framework website

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/boeing-sheffield-first-europe:
In 2016, Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company, initiated a major research and development programme with the Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC) to develop new manufacturing techniques capable of underpinning the business case for Boeing’s first production facility in Europe.
Boeing required an increase in efficiency and productivity for the manufacturing of gear and actuator parts.
As such, Sheffield's research programme had two objectives.
To develop a cost-effective and future proof manufacturing method to displace single use machine tools and processes.
Secondly, to integrate this new method with modelling tools that could simulate real-time operations, to ensure capacity and flexibility for the production facility to meet future demands.
Sheffield’s machining science research underpinned by the development of a ‘virtual factory’ simulation model by researchers at the AMRC, which through value stream mapping, factory layout optimisation and virtual reality representation, helped validate effective machining processes and technology routes for increasing productivity.
This research, integrating advanced machining technologies for aerospace alloys with state-of-the-art factory simulation, was crucial in Boeing’s decision to build its first new build factory constructed worldwide in 30 years, which was constructed in Sheffield adjacent to the AMRC.
Operational since 2018, the construction of Boeing Sheffield has resulted in major benefits for both regional and national economies.
The Mayor of the Sheffield City Region said: "Boeing's choice of location is a strong sign of confidence in our advanced engineering excellence.
The opportunities for our communities, for business, for researchers and for the workforce of the future are limitless."
Last year, Boeing renewed its longstanding relationship with the AMRC for another five years.
“Renewing Boeing’s partnership with the Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre demonstrates our commitment to Sheffield and showcases what we have jointly created in 20 years: jobs, innovation, inspiration and inward investment.
At its core the agreement looks to the future and what more we can achieve through world-class researchers and industry working together,” said Sir Martin Donnelly, president of Boeing Europe and managing director Boeing in the UK and Ireland.
Sheffield’s research has also helped to realise the aims of the Aerospace Growth Partnership, a strategic partnership between UK Government, industry and other key stakeholders, impacting their flagship Aerospace Sector Deal.
The Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy commented: “Boeing choosing the heart of South Yorkshire as its first European home is testament to our capabilities, talent pool and strong manufacturing supply chains, which are vital to job creation and creating value for local economies.”
Innovation and impact

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/bees-are-helping-design-next-generation-autonomous-technology:
Companies around the world are attempting to master autonomous technology through artificial intelligence and deep learning.
But nature has already solved it with its vast array of insects and birds seen operating autonomously throughout the natural world.
University of Sheffield company, Opteran , has extracted exactly how nature has achieved this through 600 million years of evolution.
Now, they’re using it to change the face of autonomous technology.
Over the past 10 years the likes of Tesla and Google have increased awareness and interest in autonomous technologies, like self-driving cars and drones.
Their technologies rely on the deep learning model of Artificial Intelligence (AI).
These are based on statistical learning methods inspired by, but quite unlike, the human brain.
But there is growing recognition that deep learning is not up to the task of providing robust autonomy in machines.
Deep learning is a part of machine learning where the technology is fed information in the form of texts, sounds or imagery.
The information then helps it to perform tasks.
“The process mimics a tiny part of the brain, repeats that over and over and then throws lots of training data at it,” explains Professor James Marshall.
James is  Professor of Theoretical and Computational Biology and the Chief Scientific Officer at new University of Sheffield spin-out company, Opteran.
The problem is that there’s no way of knowing exactly what information has been learnt, or more importantly, what hasn’t been learnt.
In the case of autonomous technology, this can be a huge safety risk.
It can be the reason for a vehicle causing an accident or a drone crashing into you.
Professor James Marshall
Opteran, CSO
For autonomous technology to be successful we have to be certain that it will operate as expected and we need to understand why it has made certain decisions.
Opteran has gone back to nature to find a solution to the problem of machine learning.
For James and colleagues Dr Alex Cope (Chief Technology Officer) and David Rajan (Chief Executive Officer) this has meant reverse engineering the brain of an insect.
The aim was to understand, and then replicate, what in the brain drives behaviour that prevents a bee from flying into a building, for example.
The team at Opteran began by looking at how insects see and process the world, to build up a picture of their high level functions of navigation.
For example, bees are the perfect source of inspiration, because their brains are only 1m neurons, the size of a pin-head, making them small enough to understand.
But 600 million years of evolution mean they also exhibit complex navigational capabilities.
A key aspect of this is optic flow.
It’s a way of measuring how objects move across our visual field.
“Bees use motion to not only work out if they’re going to hit something but also how far away something is,” explains Alex.
By building up this information from bees and seeing how it works, the team has been able to produce ‘silicon brains’ that mimic the structure and function of bee brains.
These can then be implanted into autonomous technology.
“A real highlight for me was running our first real-world test.
I tried to fly a drone at the wall to see if it could turn itself.
It worked perfectly,” says Alex.
“Opteran’s approach is safer and more efficient than current deep learning approaches being used by the likes of Tesla,” explains James.
“Since we designed our algorithms to work the way brains are designed to, rather than trained them, we’re in a better position to understand how they work and what decisions they will make,” explains James.
The lightweight, small size and ultra low power nature of the chip makes Opteran’s solution applicable to a wide variety of uses.
Opteran’s technology can be transferred onto a custom silicone chip and implanted into a drone weighing less than 250g for instance.
There it provides complete onboard autonomy from a single low-resolution camera.
“The technology can be used for collision avoidance and navigation as well as commercial and industrial robotics that focus on warehouse automation, industrial cleaning, security and mining,” explains David.
Precision agriculture also provides an opportunity for this technology.
Drones can be used to safely navigate acres of farmland, depositing microdoses of weed killer onto crops.
This increases plant yields with reduced chemical impact on the environment.
A little closer to home, applications include last mile delivery which highlights an important aspect of this technology in the current coronavirus pandemic.
Autonomous technology enables daily activities to continue without the need for physical interactions.
As we’ve seen, this can be fundamental to slowing and preventing the spread of disease and to treating and assisting those in need at a time of crisis.
The team at Opteran have spent the last eight years developing this technology.
Our unique advantage is that we’ve understood and created a process to extract real brain function and turn it into algorithms on silicon.
This is a paradigm shift that enables industry to create a new frontier of brain biomimicry that isn’t about artificial intelligence but about natural intelligence.
This is orders of magnitude more efficient.
In the long term this will create a billion pound market opportunity for us to be the ‘real’ brain inside every autonomous machine.
David Rajan
CEO, Opteran
“Nature will always find the easiest way to solve a problem,” says Alex.
In this case, it came from bees and thanks to their innate and effective navigation systems Alex, James, David and the rest of the team have made significant advances in the field of autonomy.
The technology developed at Opteran is making autonomous machines safer and easier to use than ever before, leading the way for a future where machine intelligence isn’t artificial but natural.
By Alicia Shephard, Research Marketing and Content Coordinator
Opteran
David Rajan , CEO
Professor James Marshall , CSO
Dr Alex Cope , CTO
Self-driving cars could harness the homing properties of pinsized bee brains
Scientists look to bees to develop drone technology
Bees help drones to find their bearings
Linkedin
Sean Barton Media Relations Officer University of Sheffield 0114 222 9852 s.barton@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/approaching-uncertainty:
When it comes to making difficult decisions, how honest are we with ourselves about what we don’t know?
Decision-makers often have to act without having all the information that they need.
Identifying the correct course of action may depend on knowing how the future will unfold or understanding how some complex process works, beyond our current scientific knowledge.
Decision-makers may consult expert opinion, but even experts won’t know everything.
It is all too easy for false assumptions to remain unstated or unchallenged, leading to bad decisions.
How can we be confident that all the key uncertainties have been properly thought through, and a course of action has been chosen accordingly?
This problem motivated Jeremy Oakley and Tony O’Hagan to develop SHELF, the Sheffield Elicitation Framework.
Jeremy and Tony, who are Professors of Statistics at the University of Sheffield, developed SHELF to combat the uncertainties that can arise when making a decision.
“It’s a process for capturing uncertainty and presenting it in a form that’s useful for decision-makers,” explains Jeremy.
SHELF starts by collecting all the relevant evidence about the topic in question.
Experts on the subject are then gathered and asked to make judgements on the possible outcomes based on the information, independently at first.
Their judgements are shared with each other, and a carefully managed discussion follows to reach a consensus in which both the agreements and disagreements between the experts are acknowledged.
The process is supported by software that enables visualisation and comparisons of the experts’ uncertainties in real time, and provides quantitative results that can be incorporated in decision models.
The framework has a broad range of applications, “SHELF can be used anywhere people are relying on expert opinion to do things,” Jeremy says.
This is how GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) came to use SHELF.
As a world top 10 pharmaceutical company, GSK turned over £17 billion in pharmaceutical products in 2017 and are leaders in drug development.
But drug development is a costly process.
The average cost of a failed clinical trial varies, but it’s estimated at between £600 million and £1 billion across the pharmaceutical industry.
This begs the question: how sure are we really that a trial is going to succeed?
The catch-22 here is that it’s not possible to know how well a drug really works until the trial is completed, but you need to do the trial to find out if the drug really works.
At a London conference in 2012, former CEO of GSK, Andrew Witty, commented on the topic of drug pricing, “If you stop failing so often you massively reduce the cost of drug development.”
This is where SHELF and expert judgement comes in.
At each stage in the drug development process there’s a decision to be made about whether or not to progress.
Once identified as safe, with the potential to be effective, the drug is evaluated against existing medications.
Despite companies being led to believe that clinical trials will have as high as a 90% success rate, trends in the pharmaceutical industry show the success rate of phase three to be around 60-70%.
In other words, up to a third of drugs fail to make it past this stage despite being safe and potentially effective.
Following the SHELF process, the experts pool their knowledge and evidence, think through the uncertainties, and pass on their assessment of how likely a planned trial is to succeed.
By using SHELF to determine the likelihood of the trial succeeding, companies can save a substantial amount of time and money.
“As a result of SHELF, lots of changes can be made to trial design,” says Nicky Best, the Head of Advanced Biostatistics and Data Analytics Centre of Excellence at GSK.
GSK have put SHELF at the heart of their planning for clinical trials, and have already used it in 50 trials.
SHELF is now one of the gold standard tools for expert elicitation but it’s not alchemy.
“If the experts really don’t know then that’s what SHELF will show,” says Jeremy.
But it can certainly give us confidence that we have properly thought through what it is that we don’t know.
Assurance in clinical trial design
Uncertain judgements: eliciting experts probability
Assurance calculations for planning clinical trials with time-to-event outcomes
2003-2006: “Elicitation of individuals’ knowledge in probabilistic form”, National Health Service’s Research Methodology Programme
Masters courses in Statistics
PhD opportunities
Bayesian statistics; eliciting probability distributions; health economics; uncertainty quantification for complex computer models
Theory and applications of Bayesian statistics
Jeremy Oakley's website
Anthony O’Hagan's website
Contact mediateam@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/research/case-studies/rise-and-impact-voice-recognition-technology:
In 2018, Sheffield launched the Centre for Speech and Language Technology, a joint research centre with VoiceBase, a major US provider of voice data analytics services to companies operating large call centres.
When VoiceBase was launched, it relied on temporary solutions and licensed third party software to support its services.
However, with rapid progress in artificial intelligence and speech recognition technology, the company needed to develop a world-class speech engine of its own in order to compete in a rapidly growing market.
Research by Professor Thomas Hain’s team, in the Department of Computer Science in the Faculty of Engineering at Sheffield, now underpins the automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems of VoiceBase.
ASR for conversational speech is a challenging research problem which can only be achieved by systems that combine numerous components, many of which are machine learning models that require massive volumes of speech data to be processed with very high computational efficiency.
To address these issues, the team has developed research in three key areas – robust methods for conversational speech, adaptation to background conditions and scalable tools.
Thanks to the state-of-the-art ASR tools provided by Sheffield, VoiceBase is able to accurately transcribe and analyse over a billion minutes of calls per year, offering their customers the ability to mine their entire volume of calls for a wealth of nuanced information.
This includes for fraud prevention, performance management, maximising sales, protection of sensitive information and meeting and market analysis.
Since the collaboration began, the company has recorded strong growth and is expanding into Europe and Australia.
VoiceBase’s CEO said: “Everything we do as a company relies on Thomas Hain.
Since the end of Q2 2020, 95% of our speech recognition technology has been based on Sheffield research."
The competitive edge provided by Professor Hain’s technology has enabled VoiceBase to grow their business significantly and attract clients such as Uber, Home Depot, NASDAQ and GrubHub.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/what-happens-when-bomb-explodes:
Improvised explosive devices are used around the world with huge consequences.
What happens when a bomb explodes and how can this information save lives?
For much of the 20th century, the major explosive threats were from very large conventional or nuclear weapons.
Over recent decades, however, smaller improvised explosive devices or IEDs have been used throughout the world with devastating consequences.
Whereas very large explosions can produce devastating effects at long distances, IEDs typically do damage over much shorter ranges.
The problem is that they’re really hard to defend against because we don’t really know how explosions work at such close distances.
But at the University of Sheffield we're working with the Ministry of Defence to conduct truly life-saving research in this area.
- In 1945, when the United States dropped atomic bombs onto the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, each instantly levelled several square miles.
This new atomic age was expected to change the face of warfare.
But since then, battlefield explosives have moved in a different direction.
They've become smaller and much more targeted.
Today Improvised Explosive Devices, or IEDs, are used throughout the world with devastating consequences.
One of the big reasons IEDs are so hard to defend against is that we don't actually really understand how explosions interact with targets at very close distances.
But if we can decipher what's going on, we have the potential to save lives, all over the world.
I've come to the University of Sheffield unique blast laboratory to meet civil engineering researchers Sam Clarke and Sam Rigby, who are attempting to solve this problem.
- So there's a lot of really good work done in the 1940s,1950s on nuclear explosions and being far away from big bombs, we developed a very good understanding from that.
But things have changed.
Now the threat is IEDs, small explosives, very, very close in, and that's where the scientific challenge is.
So within the first microseconds after detonation, that's what the Ministry of Defence are really interested in as well because if we understand that better, we can help save lives.
- At the time when we started working with the university, nobody really understood the pressure that was being exerted on the underside of a military vehicle when an explosion detonated underneath it.
- This is Ian Elgy.
He works in the Defence, Science and Tech Lab for the Ministry of Defence, where he leads a team working to protect people in military vehicles from mines and IEDs.
- Although there were simulations which could help us in predicting how that military vehicle will respond.
They're essentially limited in their use because we couldn't guarantee their reliability.
So what Sam and Sam were able to do is start collecting data to look at what was very, very important when we do those explosive tests and then they could start developing test methods that allowed us to explore this in a lot more detail.
- To highlight what's important to understanding how IEDs affect vehicles and why we don't have reliable computer models the Sams have set up two explosive tests for me to film with a high speed camera.
- So this is a hemisphere of high explosive and it's on top of a steel anvil, which we're basically using to protect the ground.
- So that doesn't look like very much explosive.
- Well, technically, there's about the same energy in there as a mars bar.
But the critical thing with the high explosive is it's how quickly it gives out the energy and it's how that energy then dissipates into the environment that we're really interested in.
- Why is this better than just modelling it on a computer?
- So some of the physics, when we're far away, like we said before, the computers fine at doing that, but very close in the physics kind of breakdown.
We don't quite kind of exactly know what's going on.
And so that's what we have to resort to actually experimentally defining this thing again.
You have to have experimental data to validate your models.
What we're here to do is to actually get that experimental data in the region that's so hard to measure and that's why it's so important.
- So in this first test, we're going to let the blast wave from the explosive spread into the area around it so that we can see what a typical shockwave looks like.
- OK, Sam, is a camera armed?
- Yep, just coming out.
- OK, firing point to sentry report.
All clear, please.
OK, copy that.
- Is everyone ready?
Three, two, one.
- Excellent, well done.
- So this is the high speed video footage from the test that we've just done.
If you look out over here on this side of the screen, you'll actually be able to see the shockwave from the explosion - sort of look around here.
Do you see that ripple?
- That here?
- Looks like water is kind of running over the lens.
We have the big flash and then we've got this fireball that's expanded to this sort of radius.
And inside here the shopfront itself is still inside the fireball.
- So now if you look around here, do you see that disturbance that's sort of moving outwards?
We're quite comfortable with this sort of region once the shockwave detaches from the fireball, what we're going to do in the next test is we're going to put a structure round about here, so, quite close to the explosive.
And then we're going to see some interesting interactions happen.
We're going to see the fireball and the shockwave all interacting with the structure and kind of feeding one another.
And that sets the challenge for the work that we're doing here at the laboratory.
- All right, so let's see if we can find this out, scrolling through.
So you can immediately see how different this is.
You can already see that you get these strange interactions here on the right.
- Yes.
It's not the same just like a normal shockwave.
- That's  exactly right yeah.
So you get these reflections coming back through the detonation products afterwards.
So it's the interactions that go along in this section here when it hits the target that are of real interest to us.
- Now, unlike with the first test, you might be struggling to see whether reflections of the blast wave interacts with the fireball.
But that's exactly the point.
This is really hard to see and more importantly, it's really hard to measure.
But this is precisely what Sam and Sam have been able to do by building a unique testing picture called the characterisation of blast loading or CoBL for short.
It consists of a large metal disk loaded with pressure bars that act as dynamic force transducers.
Basically, this means that the bars can measure extremely high magnitudes of pressures over a really short period of time, the exact types of pressures you get when a small explosive device detonate at a really close range.
- What this was able to do is able to resolve what the pressure was in a really, really small area of that plate and then how that differed from the pressure, a few millimetres further away and a few millimetres further away from that and a few millimetres further away from that.
So that gave you far more information about what was going on on that kind of critical interaction surface, which would then lead you to be able to predict what was going to happen to a vehicle or armour system that you then have there, how that would deform and then how that would ultimately lead to causing injuries or ideally preventing injuries in the people sat inside that vehicle.
- This is the sort of information that we get.
So this is using a much, much faster camera than the one that we've done for the two demonstration tests that we showed today.
This is filming about 160000 frames per second.
So this is the fireball similarly and then we can see the shockwave and the fireball hitting the target right at the top and this is where we measure.
So the big challenge that we've faced is the fact that in this region, we've got this combined loading, we've got the shockwave and we've got the fireball that's hitting the target at the same time.
We've got this interaction between the two and this is something that drives that strange physics that I mentioned earlier, the fact that we've got two fluids, one's on top of the other and they don't really want to be there.
They want to swap positions, swap places.
Part of what we've learnt from our experiments is that you need to understand what's going in the fireball in order to understand the loading that's developed on the target because that chemical composition feeds into what the loading becomes.
- So how then can you take that information and apply it to the real world?
Is that possible now?
-Yeah, I think that's where numerical models have to come in.
And what we end up doing is providing the crucial validation data for people like the guys at MoD, DSTL, where they are looking at modelling these kind of situations and we're able to provide them for the first time with these very close and detailed experimental results that allows them to validate their models.
- The fundamental understanding of why something is as it is gives you so much more scope to make use of the information.
That system that they've developed is fantastic because it allows us to do something that nobody has ever done before.
There's nobody else in the world who is able to look at the point on a on a flat plate and say the pressure being exerted there is 250 megapascals and that pressure wave is lasting for three milliseconds.
So being able to have that information makes the rest of the process of designing protected military vehicles much, much easier.
And thanks to the work that the university has been doing, we are better able to do that.
And there are more people coming home with fewer injuries than they would have been otherwise.
We show YouTuber Tom Scott our work to uncover what happens in the first moments after detonation so that building explosive-resistant structures is easier and cheaper - which could help save lives.
Research interests: soil in buried explosive events | blast loading | high stress | high strain-rate response of geomaterials
Characterisation of buried blast loading
Measuring spatial pressure distribution from explosives buried in dry Leighton Buzzard sand
A large scale experimental approach to the measurement of spatially and temporally localised loading from the detonation of shallow-buried explosives
Predicting the role of geotechnical parameters on the output from shallow buried explosives
@SheffieldBlast

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/research/case-studies/harnessing-wind-power-siemens-gamesa:
Siemens Gamesa is the global leader in offshore wind power generation, with greater than 70% market share.
It credits Sheffield as having had a significant impact on its strategy and innovation capacity.
Early wind turbine generators used a gearbox, but as these proved to be the least reliable part of the drivetrain, Siemens Gamesa sought a gearless solution where the generator is directly connected to the turbine shaft.
The Electrical Machines and Drives (EMD) Research Group in the Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering at Sheffield, led by Professor Zhu, is a global leader in the design and control of novel high torque/power density and high efficiency permanent magnet machines and drives.
As such, Siemens Gamesa wanted to partner with the Group, and the Sheffield-Siemens Wind Power Research Centre, now the Sheffield Siemens-Gamesa Renewable Energy (S²GRE) Research Centre, was established in 2009.
The initial focus was on reducing vibration-induced wear in the generator, then on increasing output power while minimising overall generator size at no additional cost.
This culminated in May 2020 with the launch of the world’s largest capacity wind turbine with a 222 meter rotor diameter, producing output of 14MW.
Sheffield enabled Siemens Gamesa to reduce risk in developing new technologies and increase ambition by creating excellent modelling and simulation techniques that allow every aspect to be tested and validated.
The collaboration has developed the most reliable, innovative and efficient wind turbine generators for the global market.
The Head of Drive Train Design at Siemens Gamesa stated: “Sheffield has made a major contribution to Siemens Gamesa achieving its key target of zero-subsidy offshore wind, and brought wind power to the point where it must be taken seriously because it is competitive with every other energy type.”
Sheffield’s research into permanent magnet gearless generator technology is incorporated in all 1,049 of Siemens Gamesa’s direct-drive offshore wind turbines operating globally, which account for 23% of worldwide offshore wind grid-connected capacity and €2.9bn annual revenue (2020).
To find out more about this project please click here.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/cost-effective-therapy-reduce-nhs-waiting-times:
*Trigger warning: this article includes content relating to eating disorders*
According to BEAT, one of the UK’s leading eating disorder charities, approximately 1,250,000 UK individuals suffer from an eating disorder at any one time.
But with clinicians prioritising high risk patients living with Anorexia Nervosa, non-high risk individuals join long waiting lists to access drawn-out therapy sessions with mixed success rates.
New research led by Glenn Waller, Professor of Clinical Psychology at the Department of Psychology at the University of Sheffield has developed CBT-T, a protocol for delivering cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT).
The 'T' stands for ten sessions - half the length of existing recommended therapies.
CBT-T trials have received highly positive reviews from participants, creating a compassionate, economically-viable and effective approach to support patients with eating disorders.
“It’s important to note that this treatment is not designed for everyone” explains Glenn.
“However, it’s been developed to support around 85% of people living with an eating disorder.
The remaining 15% are those most urgently in need and require a different method of treatment.”
Sheffield’s research into CBT-T is now being implemented in NHS training with a national curriculum and competence framework, enabling clinicians to help users gain more benefit from therapies in a shorter period of time.
To date, this research has increased access to therapies for patients and directly impacted healthcare policy and clinical practice.
Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is a form of psychological treatment.
It involves talking through how thoughts, physical sensations and actions are interconnected and how changing behaviours can help the person to overcome these fears and thoughts.
According to the NHS, in addition to treating anxiety and depression related conditions, CBT is the most effective therapy for adults with eating disorders.
Currently, clinicians use Cognitive Behavioural Therapies for Eating Disorders (CBT-ED).
However, the recommendation for non-underweight patients is between 16 and 20 sessions, which in practice can rise to over 40 sessions for patients with bulimia.
These practices are lengthy and expensive and add to the long waiting lists for those who need support.
Research carried out at the University of Sheffield also shows that the delivery of these sessions varies depending on the clinician, highly impacting the success of the sessions.
Certain characteristics such as clinicians’ anxiety of certain topics about pressing for behaviour change and dislike of some modules create ‘clinicians drift’ that can directly impair the outcomes of the therapy.
Reduced success rates of the therapy mean that some patients wait long times to be seen and are at risk of requiring repeated support in the future.
CBT-ED is well established as an effective therapy in clinical settings.
But what if its delivery could be improved without additional costs to the NHS?
Research led by the University of Sheffield has developed CBT-T; an effective therapy that takes half the time of a CBT-ED therapy.
By removing elements of the CBT-ED therapy that don’t have a positive evidence base, the CBT-T compresses twenty sessions into ten sessions while improving its delivery.
Professor Glenn Waller led a collaborative team to produce the CBT-T protocol.
The team involved: Hannah M.
Turner, Consultant Clinical Psychologist at the Southern Health NHS Foundation Trust Eating Disorders Service, Madeleine Tatham, a Consultant Clinical Psychologist at the Norfolk Community Eating Disorders Service, Victoria A.
Mountford, Principal Clinical Psychologist at the Eating Disorder Service, and Tracey D.
Wade, Matthew Flinders Distinguished Professor of Psychology at Flinders University, Australia.
“CBT-T is a flexible protocol, which fits the patient rather than making the patient fit to the therapy.
It has been developed to help clinicians to treat people in less time, shorten waiting lists, and see patients more quickly when they need help” explains Professor Glenn Waller.
CBT-T has been researched in several sites.
A key study compared the first CBT-T trial compared two sample groups: one group with 138 people was treated with CBT-ED (20 sessions) and one group with 55 people doing CBT-T (10 sessions), both had supervision.
Keeping patient satisfaction at the heart of the method, the trial focused on assessing the life quality of patients before, during and after all sessions, as well as measuring eating problems, anxiety and depression.
During CBT-ED, patient life quality and symptoms followed a pattern of improving throughout treatment and staying down after the 20 sessions have been completed.
The CBT-T trial mirrored the same pattern, proving the cost-effective method can have the same success for patients in half the time.
It’s hard to put any difference between the results of the two therapies, even though one is half the length of the other.
Professor Glenn Waller
Professor of Clinical Psychology at the Department of Psychology
The team spent four years gathering and preparing evidence of the CBT-T approach before producing a manual to enable wide implementation across the globe.
Developed for use by clinical psychologists, psychiatrists and other professionals working with eating disorders, the green book titled ‘Brief Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Non-Underweight Patients: CBT-T for Eating Disorders’ provides thorough guidance and evidence behind the CBT-T approach.
The book has sold over two thousand copies so far.
The manual is accompanied by a website that provides research-based clinical material for clinician and patient use, as well as training videos to improve the delivery of CBT-T.
To date, it has been used across 35 UK NHS trusts and internationally (USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Ukraine, Norway, Sweden, Netherlands, Mexico, Iceland, Ireland, Italy and Russia).
This research originated with a recommendation for briefer therapies for eating disorders, made by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), and is intended to feed into the next iteration of those guidelines, influencing national commissioning of treatments for these individuals.
It has already informed national and international guidelines and policy regarding best practice in treating eating disorders.
The NHS has established a national training programme for CBT-ED and CBT-T, based on Sheffield’s research and policy recommendations.
NHS England (NHS Improvement and Health Education England) has provided £7 million funding for national training for eating disorders.
This programme started in November 2020 and will deliver the training of 300-400 clinicians in CBT-T, and associated training for 160 clinical supervisors.
Sheffield’s research continues to be used in trials across the globe, with positive outcomes of seeing a greater number of people and reducing waiting times substantially without compromising on quality of care and recovery rates.
The CBT-T method has been cited as having improved practice in NHS Trust policies due to a reduction in waiting list and accessible information provided for patients and carers, even when delivered by less experienced therapists.
The 2018 NICE quality guidelines recommended the use of CBT-T as an approach for supporting eating disorders.
The Academy for Eating Disorders (2020) has summarised international guidelines on eating
disorder therapies.
It is designed to inform clinicians anywhere in the world of the best psychological therapies for eating disorders.
The guide mentions Sheffield research as an example of effective brief therapies as a means to enable wider access to therapy.
Professor Glenn Waller continues to deliver detailed CBT-T training to therapists across the world while collecting positive data from trials in many countries.
“We have developed evidence of the effectiveness of CBT-T in the UK and Australia ourselves, but more importantly we are receiving evidence from independent studies across the world.
We will keep sharing this protocol widely to gather more evidence that will be presented to NICE and encourage more countries to adapt this approach.
These recommendations can take years to develop but will support the implementation of CBT-T more widely” explains Professor Glenn Waller.
Read: Brief Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Non-Underweight Patients: CBT-T f…
View the CBT-T website

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/research/case-studies/making-saving-eyesight-simple:
Sheffield’s innovative research, integrating tissue culture techniques with ocular surgery, has led to a new treatment for blindness, caused by ocular burns, called Simple Limbal Epithelial Transplant (SLET).
Limbal stem cells ensure the transparency of the cornea, when these stem cells are damaged, they can no longer prevent the cells in the white of the eye from growing over, resulting in blindness.
Known as Limbal stem cell deficiency (LSCD), this condition is primarily caused by chemical and thermal burns in developing countries, where domestic and workplace hazards are far more common and is estimated to have affected 1.5million adults and children in India.
Since the 1990s, it has been possible to treat LSCD by expanding the patient's cells (taken from a small sample of healthy tissue in the unaffected eye) by growing them in specialist laboratories for several weeks.
Although this can work, the technique remains so demanding of facilities and staff that it is available to very few centres and patients worldwide, it has very limited accessibility.
In 2003, research led by Sheffield’s Professor Sheila MacNeil and her team in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering, investigated the treatment of skin burns and non-healing wounds.
Based on insights from this earlier research and collaborating with India’s leading ophthalmology hospital, LV Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI), Professor MacNeil’s novel SLET approach was developed into a new surgical procedure.
To date, 1,291 children and adults, across 14 countries in Asia, Europe, North and South America, have had their eyesight saved.
SLET removes the need for dedicated clinical grade tissue culture facilities, results in improved patient outcomes and treatment accessibility, and a 90% reduction in treatment costs.
Chair of Regenerative Ophthalmology at the LVPEI stated: “This technique is now very much the standard of care in India...the simplification of the technique has meant that it is more accessible to more centers and surgeons and hence more patients.”
Furthermore, by providing new skills and treatment strategies to ophthalmologists, SLET has enabled them to treat more patients since August 2013, than with existing procedures over the past 20 years.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/narrative-approach-mental-health:
For centuries, storytelling has been used as a tool to communicate ideas and understanding about the world.
Research at the University of Sheffield has adapted this tool to give those living with mental health illness a voice and a community.
Professor Brendan Stone, Professor of Social Engagement and the Humanities, has centred the relationship between narrative, identity and mental health to put the patient’s voice at the heart of support services, influencing the development of mental health policy at regional, national, and international levels.
By improving the communication of the experience of living with mental illness, his work continues to increase public understanding and combat social stigma.
Brendan was diagnosed with mental health problems at the age of 14 which disrupted his education and much of the next 25 years of his life.
But in his mid-thirties, education gave him a new sense of fulfillment.
An access course at the University of Sheffield’s Department for Lifelong Learning led him to a degree and then a PhD.
I’ve run lots of projects where people have come together and learnt together.
That solidarity and camaraderie has been very important to people.
Professor Brendan Stone
The University of Sheffield School of English
As a founding director of the mental health charity, Sheffield Flourish, and a non-executive director of the Sheffield NHS Mental Health Trust (SHSC) where he leads for the Board on service-user engagement and experience, and having led and contributed to many initiatives which support people living with mental illness to make new social connections and develop their interests, Brendan has a lot of expertise in supporting those with mental health problems.
Brendan led in developing SHSC’s service-user engagement approach and from consultations with hundreds of service users produced a 5-year strategy for engaging patients with conditions including mental illness, learning disabilities, substance abuse, and neurological disorders, which involved service users in staff-training and all levels of decision-making
Brendan’s work with Sheffield Flourish involves partnership with many organisations in order to empower individuals to build the lives they wish to lead.
Sheffield Flourish works to create peer support movements defined by solidarity, friendship, and hope, and has worked extensively with the NHS to develop more authentic co-production in the planning and delivery of mental health services, especially involving individuals and communities which have historically been marginalised and unheard.
On behalf of Sheffield City Council, Flourish runs the Sheffield Mental Health Guide which provides comprehensive and updated information and advice, and also Sheffield Suicide Support - where people who are suicidal can search for appropriate help and support.
Brendan’s impact on NHS practice and policy extends beyond Sheffield.
As co-chair of NHS England’s Reducing Restraint Strategic Oversight Group [RRSOG], he promoted user-voice and experience.
Brendan has presented RRSOG’s work in Finland and was an invited participant at the inaugural Global Ministerial Mental Health Summit: the first meeting of government ministers and clinical leaders from across the world to develop policy and practice.
Stone’s inputs to the subsequent declaration (signed by all 61 countries present) concerned the need to involve people with experience of mental illness and the importance of interventions being locally appropriate.
Brendan has also developed masterclasses for medical students and professionals, working with service-users and using narrative to deepen understanding of living with mental illness.
Representative feedback: ‘I have learned more about “handling” mental health problems here than anywhere else’; ‘I have rediscovered what it means to be a good doctor who listens to his patients’.
Service-users involved also benefitted: ‘it helped me process what has happened with my mental health and experience of health care’; ‘it’s given me faith in medicine’.
A film of these masterclasses was runner-up in the UK’s Haelo Film Awards for public sector films.
Brendan’s work with SHSC led Health Education England to commission him to produce narrative work for Fairhealth: a set of resources to help health professionals ‘better understand their patients’ lives, improve their outcomes, and reduce the health gap [between rich and poor]’.
Fairhealth won a 2019 Training Journal Gold award for the best Inclusivity and Diversity Programme.
These on-line resources are used for training doctors internationally (e.g.
University of Western Sydney) and in the UK (e.g.
Sheffield’s ‘Deep End’ programme, providing professional development for nine GP practices caring for 63K+ patients in areas of significant multiple deprivation).
Recently Brendan has led in the acquisition for the University Library of the Champernowne Archive.
Irene Champernowne was a renowned British psychoanalyst, whose influence and leadership in innovative approaches to art and therapy has been seminal in the development of British Art Therapy.
The archive includes many very valuable resources which illuminate the history of our understanding of mental health and illness.
An Exhibition of the Archive was staged at the University in 2023.
'Research in practice' in which wide participation, 'co-production', and real-world outcomes are key drivers.
The outputs include films, audio pieces, and exhibitions amongst others.
Written by Alicia Shephard
Updated by Alina Moore, Research Communications Coordinator
NHS
Higher Education Funding Council for England
National Environment Research Council

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/challenging-taboos-and-changing-practice-case-baby-loss-and-post-mortem:
One in six pregnancies will end in a miscarriage in the UK.
In 2016, more than 5500 babies were recorded as stillborn or died in the neonatal phase.
To reduce this, it’s fundamental that a post-mortem is carried out but consenting to this is an overwhelming decision for parents.
The NHS estimates that one in six pregnancies will end in a miscarriage in the UK.
And in 2016, more than 5500 babies were recorded as stillborn or died in the neonatal phase.
To reduce this, it’s fundamental that a post-mortem is carried out on the baby, but consenting to this in the aftermath of losing a child is an overwhelming decision for parents.
In the days that follow losing a baby the care practices demonstrated by professionals are crucial to the way parents cope with their loss and respond to the question of a post-mortem.
A post-mortem is a necessary step to understanding the underlying causes of death and furthering scientific knowledge.
But for parents, the idea of a post-mortem is invasive, with one father describing the thought of a post-mortem as ‘pretty ghastly’.
It’s something parents don’t want to think about, let alone decide whether or not consent to it.
Understanding how to support parents effectively in decision-making about post-mortem is fundamental to reducing incidences of baby loss.
Therefore, Professor Kate Reed and Dr Elspeth Whitby, from the University of Sheffield, have sought to explore how practices can be changed towards post-mortem after neonatal death and provide a support network for bereaved parents.
(Copyright: Hugh Turvey/Remember Baby 2018)
The team have explored the use of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) to develop a minimally invasive post-mortem.
Widening this practice could help lead to an increase in the number of post-mortems after baby-loss.
The project is also raising awareness and changing practice in UK NHS Foundation Trusts.
Professionals are also now being given clear training and guidelines on the personal care given to babies and how best to aid grieving parents.
Bereavement support charities have begun encouraging parents to seek help after the loss of their baby and new support groups have been initiated.
These new approaches to the neonatal post-mortem process are paramount to furthering knowledge and reducing baby-loss, but also to supporting the parents and families who suffer most from this loss.
Professor Kate Reed was awarded the Outstanding Societal Impact in the ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize 2019 with colleagues Dr Elspeth Whitby and Dr Julie Ellis for their research into infant post-mortems.
Professor Kate Reed, Director of the Doctoral Training Programme in the Faculty of Social Sciences, said: “We're honoured to receive this award.
I want to highlight the value and importance of interdisciplinary and collaborative research.
I've learnt so much from working with Elspeth, who's a clinician, and engaging the social sciences with medicine and the arts and humanities.
“We want to thank the NHS staff who have been involved with this project, the ESRC for funding this sensitive research, and the Faculty of Social Sciences who have supported this project right from the beginning.
I also want to thank the charities and artists that have worked with us and made this the project that it is.
“And finally and most importantly, I want to thank the parents that have been involved.
We've learnt so much and it's completely changed the way I practice social science and do qualitative research.
This award is for all those babies whose lives may have ended prematurely but will always be remembered and will never be forgotten.”
Professor Craig Watkins, Vice-President and Head of the Faculty of Social Sciences, said: “I am absolutely delighted that the ESRC have recognised the outstanding achievements of Professor Kate Reed and colleagues with the Impact Prize 2019.
It is a fantastic example of what can be achieved when we work collaboratively and across disciplines.
“Their research has not only informed and changed practice in hospitals across the UK, but has provided a source of support and comfort for bereaved parents at an incredibly difficult time.”
The Impact Prize 2019 was presented at a ceremony at the Royal Society in London.
The research team also receive £10,000 to spend on further knowledge exchange, public engagement and other impact activities.
Baby loss research wins ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize 2019
Remembering baby - life, loss and post-mortem
Why does post-mortem matter?
The difficult case of baby-loss
Professor Kate Reed
Dr Elspeth Whitby

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/neuroscience-institute/research/breakthroughs/head-collar:
Everyone values their independence.
But motor neurone disease takes it from over 2,000 of us a year in the UK.
Professor Chris McDermott and his team wanted to transform the lives of their patients by giving them some independence back.
In 2018, Phillip Brindle, raised his head and looked up.
With the help of technology from The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) he’d finally been given his life back after years of staring at the floor.
When he was diagnosed with motor neurone disease (MND) three years earlier, Phillip’s head had already begun dropping and the ground was becoming his only view.
Motor neurons directly and indirectly control our muscles and glands.
When MND destroys these cells, it destroys our ability to run, walk, or simply look up from the ground.
Within the first year of diagnosis it kills more than a third of those with the condition.
There’s a market full of solutions, various collars and neck braces that all claim to comfortably support the neck and head of MND sufferers, but many of these are often designed for sports injuries and car accidents rather than MND.
Professor Chris McDermott, a Professor of Translational Neurobiology at the University of Sheffield was approached by a patient who felt his needs weren’t being met by the collars available.
The supportive collars were too hard to be comfortable and the comfortable collars were too soft to be supportive.
So it fell to Chris and his team to develop the Goldilocks of MND collars - one that was just right.
“It seems so obvious when you think about it but working with the patients themselves to come up with the solution to their problems isn’t an approach that is often taken,” Chris explains.
Chris and his team of interdisciplinary researchers from the University of Sheffield, Sheffield Hallam University, the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and the Motor Neurone Association took a patient-centred approach to developing a new collar.
It was through working with patients that Chris experienced a truly significant moment.
In one of the patient-designer group meetings a patient articulated that she wanted the collar to allow her to turn her head from left to right.
The designers listened to this, went away and a month later produced a new prototype that enabled that range of motion.
What was significant wasn’t that the designers did as the patient requested, it was the few seconds that followed; “That was the moment the patients realised that they were driving the process.
I knew then that we were going to end up with something that was going to be helpful to patients,” Chris explains.
We’re making the journey from an idea to something useful to healthcare providers and patients around the world in collaboration with our patients.
It’s a clear demonstration of the vision for the Neuroscience Institute at the University of Sheffield.
I like this idea that patients are involved in the design and supporting it in every iteration.
The institute will allow us to follow the same pathway with the exciting neuroscience discoveries that we’re going to make.
We can feed more things into the translational pathway by bringing together interdisciplinary talent and expertise.
Professor Chris McDermott
Professor of Translational Neurobiology
The patient-centred approach is one reason the collar is so successful.
Another is the innovation that made it possible.
It’s made from Outlast technology which is the same material used by NASA to line space suits.
Chris highlights that the material used on previous products didn’t allow patients necks to ‘breathe’ easily – leading to sweaty, uncomfortable collars.
Outlast was developed in response to the extraordinary conditions and temperatures astronauts face – it absorbs, stores and releases energy as necessary to ensure an optimal neck temperature.
The temperature regulation combined with customisable structural supports means the collar can be adapted to suit patients with a wide range of muscle loss severity.
The new collar, ‘Head up’, was as Chris expected – just right, and was celebrated in the MND community.
More than 80% of patients reported they could eat, drink and read comfortably, knowing that their head and neck were fully supported.
Working closely with Talarmade Orthotics Ltd, a local Orthotics & prosthetics service in Chesterfield, thousands of units have been sold across Europe, including all of Scandinavia, Germany, Ireland, France, Spain, and the Netherlands.
The Head Up collar has been rolled out across the NHS and at least 25 trusts across the UK and around the world including Europe, The United States,  Canada and Australia.
“The Head Up collar is an example of how we can take an idea, work on it, develop it in partnership, test it and then take it into the real world and give a real benefit to people,” says Chris
By working closely with patients and experts Chris and his team have produced the Head Up collar – something just right for improving patients’ quality of life and allowing them to continue living the life they want for longer.
And this is only one aspect of our work in improving the lives of patients with MND while we wait for disease-modifying therapies to come through.
Our dedicated researchers assess all aspects of MND.
From how nutritional management could alleviate the caloric deficit suffered by many, to assessing psychological coping strategies and improving clinical services for patients.
Professor Chris McDermott and his team at Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN) have also worked closely with people with MND, and their families, to design a website to help people make informed decisions about their treatment.
Evaluating a novel cervical orthosis, the Sheffield Support Snood, in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease with neck weakness
Assessment of the Sheffield Support Snood, an innovative cervical orthosis designed for people affected by neck muscle weakness
Head-Up; An interdisciplinary, participatory and co-design process informing the development of a novel head and neck support for people living with progressive neck muscle weakness
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) i4i funding programme
Motor Neurone Disease Association (MNDA and NIHR Devices for Dignity Healthcare Technology Co-operative (HTC)
Chris McDermott, Professor of Translational Neurology
Revolutionary neck support collar now available on the NHS for people with motor neurone disease National Institute for Health Research
Innovative new collar to end MND patients' neck distress Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
Revolutionary neck support technology transforms lives of MND patients The University of Sheffield
For more information please contact:
Amy Pullan Media Relations Officer University of Sheffield +44 114 222 9859 a.l.huxtable@sheffield.ac.uk
People
Translational neuroscience
Patient and public involvement in research
Enhancing patient quality of life
We're proud to work with local and global organisations to further enhance our translational research.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/help-im-scared-dentist:
A lot of children are scared of the dentist.
It can appear to be a strange environment full of unusual tools and unfamiliar smells.
Children who are scared of the dentist feel worried and upset and may do anything to avoid going for treatment.
For some, this can result in a mouthful of untreated, decayed teeth.
This can be difficult for the parents to cope with and children often end up having their treatment carried out using sedation or having a general anaesthetic in hospital.
But this approach doesn’t help them feel less scared about future dental treatment and it’s particularly costly for the NHS.
Professor Zoe Marshman, from the University of Sheffield’s School of Clinical Dentistry, and her team knew there must be a better way to help children, their parents/carers and to make better use of NHS resources.
“In Sheffield alone, every week 30-40 children go to hospital and have a general anaesthetic for dental treatment either because they are very young or because they are too afraid to have it done at the dental surgery.
Without help to overcome their fears, these children will remain scared of dental treatment and have poorer dental health long-term as a result,” explains Zoe.
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) provides that solution.
When it comes to dealing with fears, everything from clowns to spiders, CBT can help people manage their problems.
It helps people understand how their fears make them feel, think and behave so they can develop their own solutions to overcome their fears.
Using the principles of CBT, Zoe and her team developed resources called, ‘Your teeth you are in control’, for children aged 9 to 16 years old with dental anxiety.
The resources, designed with the help of children and parents, are for children to complete together with their dentist and parent/carer.
They aim to help children feel comfortable talking about their worries, build trust with the dental team and, most importantly, put children in control.
The resources encourage children to write a ‘message to their dentist’ explaining what they want to happen (and don’t want to happen!).
The guide can be used by children to dictate what they think will help them cope with their anxieties based on a list of activities.
For some, this means choosing music to listen to during the treatment, for others, it’s squeezing a stress ball or having small rewards for making progress with treatment.
When used over a series of visits these resources have been shown to reduce fear of the dentist and the number of children who need to go to hospital for a general anaesthetic or sedation.
Children feel happier about going and miss or cancel less of their appointments.
Professor Zoe Marshman
The University of Sheffield School of Clinical Dentistry
‘Your teeth you are in control’ is currently being rolled out across the NHS, to help children with dental anxiety around the country.
But it’s also been translated into six other languages, including Mandarin and Arabic, helping children across the world.
By giving children control during dental procedures, ‘Your teeth you are in control’ is transforming children’s experiences of dental treatment now and in the future.
Find out more on our website
@ChildDentalCBT
Development and Testing of a Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Resource for Children's Dental Anxiety
Children's experiences following a CBT intervention to reduce dental anxiety: one year on.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/giving-voice-migrant-community-samos:
Forgotten by the rest of Europe, Samos is a Greek island facing a humanitarian crisis.
Dr Anna Gordon led a collaborative project that used data to amplify the conditions of the migrant camp and lobby for improvements.
Samos is a picturesque Greek island located 1.6km off the coast of Turkey.
The impressive mountainous landscape is studded with pine forests and surrounded by white-sanded beaches and the turquoise east Aegean sea.
Tourists from all over the world flock to enjoy the island sun loungers on the shoreline and local agriculture of fruit and olives.
The island’s economy relies on a steady stream of tourists to support local businesses.
But in recent years, the island has been at the centre of a humanitarian crisis.
In a hillside adjacent to Vathy, the capital of Samos, is a disused military base amongst pine trees that now serves as a refugee camp.
Hidden out of sight of tourists, the camp was originally designed to accommodate six hundred people.
At one point almost five thousand men, women and children lived there, with most sleeping in tents and homemade shacks.
The overcrowded conditions led to many settling outside the barbed fence, in an area known as the Jungle, which stretches around the outskirts of the camp.
Located on the European border, Greece was on the front line of Europe’s migration crisis when a million refugees arrived between 2015 and 2016, mainly via Turkey.
Camp settings are often the only places where internally displaced persons and refugees can seek protection and support.
Over the years, migrants have continued to make the treacherous journey to the island at a rate similar to that of the 2015 crisis, yet despite the severe overcrowding of the camp few changes have been made to support those seeking refuge.
Overcrowding has led to a lack of necessary provisions such as accommodation, sanitation and nutrition.
With the Greek National Health Service struggling as a result of the economic crisis, the health needs of both the local population and migrants have been repeatedly left unmet, which has increased hostility between them.
In summer 2019 Dr Anna Gordon, then a 4th-year medical student at the University of Sheffield arrived to work in the camp in Samos as a volunteer medic.
Having previously worked with asylum seekers and refugees in the UK, Anna was eager to use her knowledge to support migrants and help provide essential health services in the camp.
While volunteering at the clinic, Anna co-produced a study that would highlight the issues of the camp and give a voice to those residing there.
Anna would see the impact of her study in the following winter, and even more so in summer 2020.
Anna worked closely with nurses and interpreters to consult the endless stream of patients that came through their doors.
The interpreters were also migrants that lived in the camp and had a crucial understanding of the challenges that faced the migrant population in Samos.
“For a lot of the time, the advice I was able to give to patients was typical to what I would give to a patient in the UK such as providing medication.
But the interpreters I worked with were incredibly resourceful and always offered innovative solutions to problems.
They would tell patients where to find bin bags and how to use them to kill insects in infested belongings.
It was amazing.
I would never have thought of something like that” says Dr Anna Gordon.
After spending three months in the camp, Anna saw that poor camp management and organisation was one of the key factors to the development of the majority of the health issues.
Everything I saw was directly as a result of the living conditions in the camp and not really anything to do with the fact these people were refugees.
Dr Anna Gordon
The poor conditions of the hillside camp meant that the overcrowded migrant population lived without proper sanitation, toilets and showers.
Anna began to research the legal standard for refugee camps and found that the migrant camp in Samos did not meet any of the minimum international standards.
Anna was unable to find any data that quantified how people were actually living in these camps.
Without data, she knew that she would struggle to reach out to organisations and elevate it to a state of emergency.
Who would be held accountable for the lives of the people living in these conditions?
Anna worked closely with a team of interpreters to design a survey that supported the community in finding its voice.
Through a collaborative approach, Anna invited members of the migrant community to join together to discuss their priorities and decide on questions that would be important, and appropriate, to ask.
“We wanted to run a survey that empowered people within the camp to speak out about their own experiences.
It’s important to integrate the priorities of vulnerable groups of people and hear their perspectives, rather than coming in with your own agenda.
The interpreters and others helped us be able to ask the questions with the right nuance.
Without them, I wouldn’t have known how to phrase questions differently for Arab, Farsi, or French speaking populations appropriately” says Dr Anna Gordon.
Questions on the survey fell into four broad categories: demographics, living conditions (including food and sanitation), safety and vulnerability, and health.
Surveys were handed out in the health centre’s waiting rooms and across the camp, with interpreters emphasising that there was no obligation to answer all, or any, of the questions.
Yet, participants wanted to express their views; the lowest answer rate in any question was 80%.
“Seeing the community's enthusiasm for filling out the surveys was incredibly moving.
They were so enthused and keen to have been given a chance to finally talk about their experiences and the conditions they were living in.
They were given a voice and a platform.
Almost all of the questions in the survey had yes and no options for answers, but people still wrote additional notes in the margin.
Sometimes they said thank you, sometimes they drew pictures” recalls Dr Anna Gordon.
A total of 500 people completed the study.
Back in the UK, Anna analysed the results while keeping in contact with the interpreters, now her close friends, who were still in Samos.
The findings of the survey stressed the extent of the humanitarian crisis in the camp.
Ninety-six percent of participants had witnessed rats, snakes or other pests in their dwellings, and eighty-nine percent had insect infestations.
Sixty-three percent of participants had no access to 15 litres of daily clean water, the minimum standard for drinking and domestic hygiene.
Less than half of the participants ate three or more meals per day, while twenty-seven percent ate just one per day.
Many, including children, were malnourished.
Most of the participants had witnessed others defecating in the open, a key risk factor for the spread of diseases.
Sixty-seven percent of participants had witnessed violence in the area, and eighty percent did not feel safe in their dwellings at night.
Women, including pregnant women, faced particular safety concerns.
Almost all participants had experienced psychological distress while residing in the camp.
Anna analysed this data with supervisors Dr Caroline Mitchell and Dr Julie Balen from the University of Sheffield and presented the findings to local and national charities and organisations working on the island.
Better awareness of the real issues in the camp, and detailed information about groups worst affected helped to inform solutions to make vital improvements.
These included national organisations installing better lit toilet facilities with locks, women's charities providing whistles and self-defence classes, an organisation built safe, wider roads through the camp and installed more taps, and new clinics opened specifically providing midwifery services and mental health support.
“I came back in the following December (2020) and although it was cold and dark compared to the summer, people already looked a lot better.
Due to the pandemic, I wasn’t able to enter the camp itself but the people I worked with told me that the camp was so different.
There were showers and toilets that had been installed.
Everything looked a lot cleaner and there was less violence” says Dr Anna Gordon.
Anna continues to work with refugees in the UK and uses their perspectives and priorities to lead further research.
“We need to think about how we meet the health needs of refugees because their population is only going to increase over generations.
There have never been more refugees and displaced people in the world than there are today.
How best can we create sustainable camps that allow refugees to grow and contribute and have a sense of place and purpose?” explains Dr Anna Gordon.
At her (online) graduation in January 2021, Anna was awarded the Chancellor’s medal in recognition of her outstanding work in lobbying for improved conditions during a pandemic.
She hopes to inspire other students that it is never too early to make a difference.
I was very blessed to have supervisors who never put that limitation on me or my work.
I’d like other students to know that just because you’re still studying, it doesn’t mean that you can’t make a difference.
If you work on something that you really care about, you’ll be amazed at how much of a voice you already have.
Written by Alina Moore, Research Communications Coordinator
Newly-qualified doctor awarded Chancellor’s medal in recognition of her outstan…
Read the research paper
Paper: Conditions in Samos Refugee Camp in Greece Severely Below Internationall…

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/recovering-quality-life:
Recovery from mental health problems means being able to live a meaningful and fulfilling life, with or without symptoms, and this is defined by each individual.
Understanding how we feel can help with this.
So, how can we measure and better understand our mental health?
Over the last 20 years there’s been an accelerating shift in the NHS and medical practice in the UK towards a focus on the views of patients, rather than relying solely on the judgements of clinicians.
This has been important in the field of physical health but even more so when it comes to considering people’s views of their mental health.
When we visit the GP what do we expect?
For a long time patients were asked a series of questions which were used to determine condition and diagnosis.
The approach now, however, uses Patient Reported Outcome Measures – PROMs.
There’s an abundance of mental health assessment measures based on this approach.
They’re comprised of a series of questions designed to capture the patient’s views about their current state of mental health.
However, many of these measures focus only on symptoms – for example, of depression or anxiety.
Asking questions about such experiences are important, but measures that target only these experiences fail to capture equally meaningful aspects of people’s lives; for example, our sense of belonging or self-perception.
And very few of these measures have actively engaged with people experiencing mental health issues.
But a team from the University of Sheffield led by Professor John Brazier from ScHARR took on this challenge.
Together with colleagues from ScHARR – Dr Anju Keetharuth, Dr Jill Carlton, Dr Lizzie Taylor Buck and Janice Connell – and Professor Michael Barkham from the Department of Psychology, the team devised and successfully implemented a new PROM into the NHS.
Named Recovering Quality of Life, or ReQoL, the new PROM focuses on improving patient’s quality of life rather than just treating the symptoms.
Professor Michael Barkham and Dr Anju Keetharuth
“Before ReQoL, patients would go and see their GP, explain their symptoms, and the GP would make an assessment,” explains Anju, “then on a follow up appointment they’d reassess the patient’s state and see if they’d improved.” This is fine providing the issues that are worrying a person are the ones being spoken about.
Because the questions in ReQoL capture a broader range of issues, it is hoped that this will enable more meaningful assessments and also provide a review of the areas of a person’s life that are important to improving their quality of life.
“ReQoL is giving service users a voice and this reflects that shift over the last 20 years,” says Michael.
So, what is the ReQoL tool and how does it work?
There are two versions: one containing 10 items (ReQoL-10) and one 20 items (ReQoL-20), both of which ask questions about the patient’s experiences in the past seven days.
The shorter version captures six themes of experience that, based on past studies and users’ feedback, were considered central in trying to capture a person’s movement toward recovery.
The themes are: belonging and relationships; activity; choice, control and autonomy; hope; self-perception, and wellbeing.
In addition to the 10 items, it also includes a question on physical health as service users have indicated this as being a very important aspect of their quality of life.
The ReQoL-20 adds a further 10 items that focus primarily on aspects of wellbeing to gain a deeper understanding on how the service user is feeling (e.g., “I found it hard to concentrate”, “I had problems with my sleep”).
But whichever version is used, those initial 10 items tapping the six themes ensure that people’s thoughts and feelings about more than their symptoms are captured.
And importantly, some of the questions are framed positively (e.g., “I felt happy”) while others are framed negatively (e.g., “I felt unable to cope”).
Including both is important so as not to present the experience as either all positive or all negative.
ReQoL has also been designed to be used in evaluating the cost effectiveness of interventions.
In the UK, decisions about whether or not an intervention or treatment is funded by the NHS are made by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE).
They make the decision by comparing the costs and benefits of the proposed intervention or treatment, where the benefits are captured by a measure that combines health gains, quality of life, and years of life.
ReQoL is such a measure.
It adequately reflects the essence of what matters to service users and better captures the benefits of an intervention or treatment.
Across the UK and abroad ReQoL is being used in a number of studies and trials to assess the cost effectiveness of interventions.
The development of ReQoL was informed by the views of 6,000 service users views.
This detailed user perspective was balanced with an equal focus on measurement science to ensure that the measure was robust.
Our mission was to give people with mental health problems a voice and let them be the decision makers.
Dr Anju Keetharuth
The University of Sheffield School of Health and Related Science
“Our mission was to give people with mental health problems a voice and let them be the decision makers,” says Anju.
“It was only launched in 2016, but it’s already impressively embedded in the NHS,” says Michael.
ReQoL is being completed by people in a third of NHS trusts in England and also overseas in countries ranging from Australia, Singapore and Canada.
It has also been translated in six Indian languages, German, Dutch, Norwegian and Chinese.
The ReQoL measures are changing the way people who experience mental health problems are assessed and can help them to monitor their own progress.
We’re no longer ignoring patient’s voices or simply ticking boxes in the assessment process.
Patients can now audit and review their state, helping them make informed decisions on their road to recovery and improved quality of life.
In an NHS that is presented as patient-led, ReQoL provides one tool for supporting this agenda.
Find out more on the ReQol website
Recovering Quality of Life (ReQoL): a new generic self-reported outcome measure for use with people experiencing mental health difficulties.
The importance of content and face validity in instrument development: lessons learnt from service users when developing the Recovering Quality of Life measure (ReQoL).
This independent research was undertaken by the Policy Research Unit in Economic Evaluation of Health and Care Interventions ( EEPRU ) funded by the Department of Health Policy Research Programme.
It was also part-funded by the National Institute for Health Research Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care Yorkshire and Humber ( NIHR CLAHRC YH ).
John Brazier , ORCiD: 0000-0001-8645-4780
Anju Keetharuth , ORCiD: 0000-0001-8889-6806
Michael Barkham , ORCiD: 0000-0003-1687-6376

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/remodelled-ambulance-service:
England's National Ambulance Service provides care for millions of people every year.
However, too often patients have been left waiting hours for care.
But the University of Sheffield has helped to change all that, with a recent change being called the biggest overhaul for the service in 40 years.
Demand for the 999 ambulance service is much bigger than it used to be.
In 1995 there were 3.5 million 999 calls a year to the UK’s emergency healthcare service number.
Now there are 10 million.
The demand for ambulance service care is at an unprecedented high, placing a huge strain on their staff and services.
It’s no secret that working for any emergency service can be gruelling at times and for the ambulance service it’s no different.
999 call handlers and paramedics alike work tirelessly to provide the best clinical care they can to patients in need.
So how can outdated time-targets, and the allocation of limited and inadequate resources be revamped so staff can provide the best possible care?
There are 10 regional ambulance services in England dealing, on average, with between 1100 and 4500 emergencies a day.
Faced with stretched resources and poor performance, in 2015 NHS England embarked on an ambitious programme of change to how 999 calls are triaged, categorised and responded to (the Ambulance Response Programme – ARP).
As part of this they approached Janette Turner, a Reader in Emergency and Urgent Care Research in the School of Health and Related Research at the University of Sheffield.
Janette’s role was to provide academic input to the plans and carry out a comprehensive evaluation on the impact of the changes.
This evaluation was crucial in ensuring that changes were evidence based and provided the information needed for NHS England and Ministers at the Department of Health to make decisions about national adoption of the changes.
Before the ARP changes, 50 per cent of all 999 calls had to be responded to within eight minutes.
That’s eight minutes from the moment the call handler takes basic patient details  to the ambulance or paramedic arriving at the emergency.
As soon as call handlers had an address they had to send someone if they were to stand a chance of getting there in 8 minutes.
This didn’t leave enough time to determine the nature of the problem, or how urgent it was.
These unrealistic time targets also resulted in call handlers sending whatever resource was available.
And often this wasn’t what was most appropriate for the patient.
Consider somebody who’s had a stroke and calls 999.
If all that’s available is a single paramedic in a fast response car then that’s what’s sent to the patient.
However, what that patient really needs is to get to hospital as quickly as possible.
This means another resource (a proper ambulance that can transport) will also have to be sent and this causes a delay.
As a patient it’s much better to wait 20 minutes and get the right clinical care than have a paramedic arrive within 8 minutes only to have to wait another hour for an ambulance – all so the clock could be stopped.
It’s one thing to rush to an emergency without the right resources.
But it’s another to also be somewhat in the dark about the severity of the situation itself.
Unhelpful categorisation of emergencies has also played a role in increasing the strain on services.
Originally, calls were categorised in one of three ways: 1) Red one, 2) Red two, 3) Green.
Red one and two were the calls with an eight minute response time and comprised half of all calls coming through.
We know from previous work that half of people who call 999 don’t have a life threatening emergency, it’s more like 10 per cent of people.
So they were trying to get to calls in eight minutes that just didn’t need such a rapid response.
As a result those who did need it weren’t getting it because the services were spread too thin.
Janette Turner
Reader in Emergency and Urgent Care Research in the School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield
The approach to overhauling the Ambulance Service had three key aspects.
The first was to give the call handlers in the control room more time before starting the clock.
By spending more time on the call dispatchers can establish the problem and the level of urgency, giving a clearer picture of who’s most in need and what type of response is necessary.
To support this some early questions were introduced so that time critical calls (such as cardiac arrest) would be identified early and sending help would not be delayed.This was tested in about half of the services in England.
Over the course of the testing period Janette looked at all kinds of measures; for example, how quickly they got to the problem and how appropriate the level of care was.
As a result, there was a huge improvement in how efficiently resources were used because there were fewer instances of sending multiple resources to the same call.
“We estimated this made more than 10,000 extra available resources each week across England.
This also means a much higher number of patients were getting the right response first time.
We also found that there was a 6.6% increase in the proportion of calls getting a response within 8 minutes.
Importantly, when we asked ambulance service staff about this change they were overwhelmingly positive saying it helped them to better assess calls and manage the resources they had available,” says Janette.
Alongside this, the ARP completely revised the call categories and Janette played a key role in the process by using historical data to support the decisions made by clinical experts.
It took three iterations but after a lot of testing the calls are now broken down into five categories rather than three.
As Janette explains, “the biggest advantage of the new categories is that the highest category (category 1) is now about 10% of calls and captures the true life-threatening emergencies.
As a result these patients now get a much more consistent and rapid response than previously.
In the 2.5 years since these changes were made, every ambulance service achieved and sometimes exceeded the response time standards for these calls even when demand is very high.
A larger number of categories also allows much more discrimination that helps dispatchers decide on the right resource to send including specialist resources such as advanced and community-based paramedic services.”
The final change was to allocate each of the call categories their own response time standards.
These are the most appropriate time for the category and level of urgency.
For category one, the expectation is that they will get there within seven minutes on average.
But for the lower priority categories there is a much longer response time.
For example, for category three the response time is within two hours for 90 per cent of calls.
Obviously people want the emergency services to come quickly but the reality is that you’re not going to come to any harm in those later categories and people were waiting that long anyway, it just wasn't being reported.
In July 2017, these new ambulance response standards were announced by NHS England after rigorous testing on ten million 999 calls.
According to the Association of Ambulance Chief Executives Managing Director, Martin Flaherty OBE, “The introduction of the new ambulance response standards is positive for patients and ambulance services alike.
Our control room staff and paramedics out on the road have welcomed the new system which has been developed with significant input from senior ambulance clinicians.
We can also see clearly how the quality of care will improve for all patients because the new standards will mean greater availability of our limited resources, especially for those with life-threatening conditions who need us there fastest.
It is a common-sense approach that is long overdue.”
The number of people calling 999 shows no sign of diminishing which will continue to create real challenges in a resource-limited service.
But now, every time  an ambulance arrives at an emergency it’s much more likely to be the right resource in an appropriate time frame to provide the best clinical care to the patient at the other end.
The changes that have been implemented were undoubtedly very significant in terms of how we respond to 999 calls.
As Janette remarks, “there are far too many examples of change in the NHS that are not well thought through or evidence based.
It was a privilege to work with NHS England and the Ambulance Response Programme as a valued partner throughout the entire process.
Our work provided the robust information needed to support a critical policy change that is now firmly embedded as routine operational practice across England."
Written by Alicia Shephard, Research Marketing and Content Coordinator
Graphics by Ella Marke, Visual Designer
Janette Turner, Twitter
Outcomes for Patients Who Contact the Emergency Ambulance Service and Are Not Transported to the Emergency Department: A Data Linkage Study
Why do ambulance services have different non-transport rates?
A national cross sectional study
Prioritizing novel and existing ambulance performance measures through expert and lay consensus: A three‐stage multimethod consensus study
New ambulance response standards introduced to improve patient care
For further information contact:

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/international-collaboration-prevent-premature-birth:
Researchers from the University of Sheffield are collaborating with hospitals and universities across the globe to find practical, affordable ways to reduce the number of premature births around the world.
Premature birth, also known as preterm birth, occurs when a baby is born before the 37th week of pregnancy.
It affects 15 million babies every year worldwide - that’s more than 1 in every 10 births.
Globally, it is the leading cause of death for children under the age of 5, with 60 per cent of preterm births occurring in Africa and South Asia.
Numerous risk factors that lead to preterm births have already been identified.
Countries that struggle with high rates of infectious diseases and inadequate healthcare resources are more likely to have higher rates of premature births.
Yet, infections such as urinary tract infections, bacterial vaginosis, syphilis, malaria, and HIV all affect the placenta and may contribute to the higher rates of preterm birth in lower-income countries have rarely been investigated.
As highlighted in the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals , all countries endeavour to end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years old by 2030.
Working towards this target, the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) has awarded circa £2.5 million to the multidisciplinary research group known as PRIME (PReterm bIrth prevention and manageMEnt).
PRIME is led by established researchers from the University of Sheffield in collaboration with hospitals and universities in South Africa, Bangladesh, India and Nigeria.
PRIME is carrying out pioneering studies with an aim to reduce child death and disability caused by premature birth.
Due to key socio-economic disparities between different low-middle income countries, the researchers are focusing on finding adaptable solutions that are culturally relevant and locally scalable.
Through the localisation of research and collaboration with key stakeholders, the experts are clarifying fundamental gaps in international birth care.
This new knowledge is the foundation for suggesting new approaches to care and solutions adaptable for international action.
We cannot assume that solutions to preterm birth are one size fits all.
We need to understand the challenges that each country or region faces and design ways to mitigate these challenges that are culturally appropriate and affordable.
Professor Dilly Anumba
Programme Director and Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Honorary Consultant in Obstetrics and Fetomaternal Medicine at the University of Sheffield and Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Foundation Trust
For the first time, the features of infection in the placentas of women who experience preterm birth are being studied.
Focusing on women in low-middle income countries, studies by PRIME will clarify which infections contribute to high rates of preterm birth.
This will help to prevent, detect and treat these infections as necessary during pregnancy and provide pregnancy health for mothers at risk of premature birth.
The research is also advancing new guidance to evaluate the risks of a preterm birth before and during pregnancy.
In low-middle income countries, health behaviours that can reduce preterm birth risk are not always established.
Women in developing countries can experience late registration for prenatal care, an inaccurately dated pregnancy, and an absence of a risk assessment of premature birth.
Working closely with key stakeholders, PRIME is establishing new guidance to help detect and prevent premature births where possible.
The PRIME team is investigating the possibility of screening pregnant women for preterm birth.
This will be done by measuring the ‘metabolites’ in vaginal fluids.
They will also determine the feasibility of using a new, affordable device developed in Sheffield as part of the ECCLIPPx™ study, funded by the Medical Research Council.
The device assesses the cervix at 20 weeks of pregnancy, to predict or rule out subsequent premature births.
Further funding has allowed the PRIME team to investigate pregnancies more closely on an international scale.
This allows the team to conduct research based on localised circumstances and assess suitable solutions to aid pregnant women.
Preterm birth is more common in adolescent pregnancies, making young women a key group to work with.
In India, PRIME is investigating maternal nutrition and its effects on preterm birth.
In South Africa and Bangladesh, pilot implementation projects focus on adolescent sexual reproductive health.
Quality-Related Global Challenges Research Funding has also enabled the study of the impact of malaria in pregnancy in Nigeria.
In low-middle income countries, women who go into preterm labour often deliver at home or in inadequately resourced facilities.
Working with professionals in South Africa and Bangladesh, PRIME is developing preterm birth care guidance and training packages for frontline carers.
This will also include a kit of essential material for mothers looking after a premature baby at home.
Focusing on underprivileged areas, the PRIME group is working closely with service-users, healthcare policymakers and administrators to understand the social and biological factors relating to preterm birth.
With this knowledge, they are taking steps to ensure the guidance and new techniques are acceptable to health care planners, professionals and women.
“This is a very welcome and hugely exciting opportunity for us researchers at the University of Sheffield to work with colleagues in partner countries to develop practical and effective solutions to improve the healthy survival of premature babies born in communities with fewer resources” says Professor Anumba.
“We are grateful to the NIHR Global Health Scheme for funding this project that promises to improve the health of the pregnant mother and her newborn baby", he adds.
This program is working to offer real solutions to international issues.
Through this multi-country research collaboration, the PRIME program aims to better understand social and biological factors related to preterm birth.
This will enable the design and implementation of guidelines and interventions that can be tested and adapted for use across low-middle income countries and help mothers and babies across the world.
Written by Alina Mironova, Marketing & Communications Officer
PRIME Project Website
Paper: Transcriptomic analysis of the human placenta reveals trophoblast dysfun…

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/polaris-mri:
Scientists at the University of Sheffield have developed a novel type of MRI scan that produces unique images of the lungs.
The safe scan uses inhaled hyperpolarised xenon gas to pick up on lung abnormalities previously undetected with routine tests.
The Pulmonary, Lung and Respiratory Imaging Sheffield (POLARIS) research group led by Jim Wild, Professor of Magnetic Resonance Physics and Director of the INSIGNEO institute for in silico medicine at the University of Sheffield is at the forefront of developing this novel method of MRI technology.
Using this sensitive method, the group is pioneering new research and translating it to clinical practice across the NHS.
These groundbreaking xenon functional imaging technologies used in conjunction with structural proton MRI have helped clinicians identify early signs of lung disease, for example in children with Cystic Fibrosis and adults with severe asthma, without using radiation.
The methods are very sensitive to picking up limitations of gas exchange in the lungs.
Sheffield are leading studies with xenon MRI to improve our understanding of post Covid lung disease, interstitial lung disease (scarring of the lungs) and pulmonary vascular disease (any condition that affects the blood vessels within the lungs).
To date, this research with multi-nuclear MRI has helped define NHS practice in the diagnosis and management of patients from the Sheffield Interstitial Lung Disease and Pulmonary Vascular Disease clinics.
The new lung MRI scanning technology, which is a collaboration between the University of Sheffield and GE Healthcare, is one of 19 initiatives receiving part of £149 million in funding by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), UKRI’s Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) and Medical Research Council (MRC).
Respiratory disease affects one in five people in the UK, creating a massive burden on healthcare which costs the NHS more than £6 billion per year.
This partnership hopes to make advanced functional imaging more accessible to respiratory medicine.
But how does this novel MRI scan work?
Typically magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computerised tomography (CT) are used to provide images of tissues in the body to help diagnose internal problems.
An MRI scan is a non-invasive technology that uses strong magnetic fields to magnetise the protons in water and fat tissues in the body.
Radio-frequency waves shift these protons to create a signal and radio frequency coils encode these signals by time varying magnetic fields to create 3D images of the body.
A CT scan uses X-ray detectors to create images of slices of the body.
As well as being used to quickly examine internal injuries from trauma, it can also be used to visualise nearly all parts of the body.
As CT scans use radiation however, they cannot be used repeatedly in a short period of time due to a heightened risk of harming the patient, this becomes a particular issue in children.
Where conventional proton MRI and CT scans fall short, is their ability to provide insight into the function of the lungs at the physiological coalface - the interface between the alveoli and capillaries.
A new approach to imaging was needed that is safe, repeatable and accurate.
This is what the POLARIS team have delivered.
Developed at the University of Sheffield, the POLARIS technology uses inhaled Hyperpolarised Xenon gas in combination with MRI scanners (retuned to the xenon frequency) to provide clear images of internal organs and to measure their function.
The gas is magnetised (or ‘hyperpolarised’) outside of the scanner so that the majority of the Xenon atoms are aligned.
This creates a strong signal that can be picked up by MRI scans from relatively low concentrations of the inhaled gas.
The gas is safe to inhale, soluble and gets taken up to the brain by the blood in the lungs.
As well as providing novel information on gas exchange in the lungs, it is the first MRI method currently available to provide direct visualisation of gas exchange in the brain.
Researchers at Sheffield were the first to demonstrate this high quality xenon brain MRI.
“Patients are asked to inhale the Xenon gas, hold their breath for a few seconds while the scanner collects the images and then breathe the gas away” explains Professor Jim Wild.
This technology is exquisitely sensitive, safe (even for children and infants), and is being used in a variety of ways such as measuring the efficacy of novel treatments for lung diseases in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies.
So far, the team at POLARIS have collaborated with AstraZenaca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline and Novartis.
The images generated are also used as the basis for computer models of lung microstructure and physiology, and the research is central to the themes of the INSIGNEO institute , spanning advanced biomedical imaging, novel device technology and computational modelling.
The scan takes just a few minutes and, as it does not require radiation exposure, it can be repeated over time to see changes in the lungs with disease progression and in response to treatment.
Professor Jim Wild
Professor of Magnetic Resonance Physics at the University of Sheffield
The methodology developed by POLARIS is approved by the MHRA in the UK and is being used in NHS patient pathways and to evaluate new treatments by Pharma in the UK and EU.
Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a progressive genetic disorder that causes severe damage to internal organs such as the lungs and digestive system.
The disorder causes a build-up of thick mucus, blocking ducts and tubes in internal organs such as the lungs, bowel, and pancreas.
Typical symptoms include a persistent cough, wheezing and frequent lung infections.
Over 10,000 people live with CF in the UK.
Doctors usually evaluate the progress of the condition using a chest X-ray or a CT scan.
However, frequent CT scans involve high exposure to radiation which poses high risks to patients, especially for children.
Using this novel MRI method, POLARIS uncovered details in lung ventilation difficulties that were not picked up in previous CT scans without using any radiation.
This MRI method is now being used for the detection of early functional lung disease as an alternative to a chest X-ray or CT scans by the Sheffield Children’s Hospital CF Clinic.
This service is novel to the UK.
Many people who have had Covid developed acute lung injury.
POLARIS have led the way in the UK with this technology to help understand how the function of the lungs is impaired and why some people recover and others seem to have persistent breathlessness.
They have created a national platform for the use of this technology in two large collaborative studies: the UKILD study and the EXPLAIN study .
Sheffield’s hyperpolarised xenon MRI scans are at the core of the EXPLAIN study.
This study involves teams at Sheffield, Oxford, Cardiff and Manchester to investigate lung damage in Long Covid patients who have not been hospitalised but continue to experience breathlessness.
The initial results from the pilot showed that there is a ‘significantly impaired gas transfer’ from the lungs to the bloodstream in Long Covid patients although other conventional tests were normal.
Once the Xenon-129 gas has been inhaled into the lungs, it also safely dissolves into the pulmonary blood stream and transported to organs such as the brain and kidneys.
However, only a small fraction (less than 5%) of the gas travels from the lungs to the brain, which has been difficult to pick up on in MRI scans in the past.
POLARIS have developed new, highly-sensitive equipment that has allowed for the direct, clear imaging of the MRI gas to be picked up as it travels to the brain tissue.
Their research into this novel MRI scanning has been used to perform the world’s first clinical diagnostic scanning with this technology in Sheffield in partnership with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals and Sheffield Childrens Hospital.
The POLARIS group are now focusing on making the technology more clinically accessible by supporting new clinical sites around the world with gas polarisers and the methods needed to make standard clinical scanners pick up the xenon signals.
The team are also working closely with GE Healthcare to help make lung MRI techniques feature as a clinical product on their MRI scanners.
The revolutionary MRI scans will benefit from part of a £149 million investment to bring UK business and academics together to accelerate cutting edge research.
“This new £2.7 million funding and industry collaboration with GE Healthcare will help us to develop and integrate computer hardware and software making it possible to use hyperpolarised xenon technology on existing MRI systems and further research high-quality imaging at low-field strengths.
This will not only save money but it will also make the revolutionary imaging available to more patients and groundbreaking clinical research" says Professor Jim Wild.
General use in the NHS for clinical lung imaging
Lung MRI with hyperpolarised gases: current & future clinical perspectives.
Stewart NJ, Smith LJ, Chan HF, Eaden JA, Rajaram S, Swift AJ, Weatherley ND, Biancardi A, Collier GJ, Hughes D, Klafkowski G, Johns CS, West N, Ugonna K, Bianchi SM, Lawson R, Sabroe I, Marshall H, Wild JM.Br J Radiol.
2022 Apr 1;95(1132):20210207.
doi: 10.1259/bjr.20210207.
Epub 2021 Jun 9.
Covid
Longitudinal lung function assessment of patients hospitalised with COVID-19 using 1H and 129Xe lung MRI'
The Investigation of Pulmonary Abnormalities using Hyperpolarised Xenon Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Patients with Long-COVID research paper
Cystic Fibrosis
The assessment of short and long term changes in lung function in CF using 129 Xe MRI.
Smith LJ , Horsley A, Bray J, Hughes PJC, Biancardi A, Norquay G, Wildman M, West N, Marshall H, Wild JM.
Eur Respir J.
2020 Jul 6:2000441.
doi: 10.1183/13993003.00441-2020.
Asthma
Xenon ventilation MRI in difficult asthma: initial experience in a clinical setting.
Mussell GT, Marshall H, Smith LJ, Biancardi AM, Hughes PJC, Capener DJ, Bray J, Swift AJ, Rajaram S, Condliffe AM, Collier GJ, Johns CS, Weatherley ND, Wild JM , Sabroe I.
ERJ Open Res.
2021 Sep 27;7(3):00785-2020.
doi: 10.1183/23120541.00785-2020.
Xenon in the brain
Assessment of brain perfusion using hyperpolarized 129 Xe MRI in a subject with established stroke.
Rao MR, Norquay G , Stewart NJ, Hoggard N, Griffiths PD, Wild JM.
J Magn Reson Imaging.
2019 Sep;50(3):1002-1004.
doi: 10.1002/jmri.26686.
Epub 2019 Feb 18.
The technology
^{129}Xe-Rb Spin-Exchange Optical Pumping with High Photon Efficiency.
Norquay G , Collier GJ, Rao M, Stewart NJ , Wild JM.
Phys Rev Lett.
2018 Oct 12;121(15):153201.
doi: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.153201.
Standalone portable xenon-129 hyperpolariser for multicentre clinical magnetic resonance imaging of the lungs.
Norquay G , Collier GJ, Rodgers OI, Gill AB, Screaton NJ, Wild J.
Br J Radiol.
2022 Apr 1;95(1132):20210872.
doi: 10.1259/bjr.20210872
Dissolved 129 Xe lung MRI with four-echo 3D radial spectroscopic imaging: Quantification of regional gas transfer in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Collier GJ, Eaden JA, Hughes PJC, Bianchi SM, Stewart NJ , Weatherley ND, Norquay G , Schulte RF, Wild JM.
Magn Reson Med.
2021 May;85(5):2622-2633.
doi: 10.1002/mrm.28609.
Epub 2020 Nov 30.PMID: 33252157
Feasibility of human lung ventilation imaging using highly polarized naturally abundant xenon and optimized three-dimensional steady-state free precession.
Stewart NJ , Norquay G , Griffiths PD, Wild JM.
2015 Aug;74(2):346-52.
doi: 10.1002/mrm.25732.
Epub 2015 Apr 27.
POLARIS
New MRI scanning technology to improve clinical accessibility and advance lung …
INSIGNEO

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/safely-reducing-trips-ae:
Research from the Faculty of Health has shown that paramedics with extended skills can leave older patients safely at home with potential cost savings to the NHS of over £50 million, reducing unnecessary journeys to the hospital.
A paramedic is the first to arrive on a scene when a patient needs help.
But rather than taking all patients directly to the emergency department, what if they were able to stabilise the patient safely in the comfort of their own home?
Led by Suzanne Mason, Professor of Emergency Medicine, Sheffield researchers evaluated the ability of a new professional role, Advanced Paramedic Practitioners (APPs), to reduce pressure on this emergency healthcare system without compromising patient outcomes.
Following a pilot in the South Yorkshire Ambulance Service, the Sheffield Centre for Health and Related Research (SCHARR) was instrumental in assisting with the training and education of APPs before opening the role to services across the country.
Between 2003 and 2013, Sheffield conducted thorough research, focusing on the impact of integrating APPs into the emergency healthcare system, particularly in relation to patient outcomes.
The research by SCHARR has paved the way for the increasing importance of APPs in healthcare settings.
These Sheffield-based studies have resulted in substantial changes to national and international guidance, policy, and practice in relation to the emergency care workforce.
Paramedics are the first to identify if there are any clinical risks to patients.
Their roles primarily include assessing, treating and referring patients according to the nature and severity of their conditions.
Traditionally, paramedics would stabilise a patient at the scene before taking the patient to hospital to receive definitive care.
Advanced Paramedic Practitioners (APPs), also known as Emergency Care Practitioners (ECPs), are healthcare workers, such as paramedics or nurses, who have undergone additional training to act as autonomous practitioners.
The training provides an individual with the skills and confidence required to treat and discharge a patient at the scene, rather than taking them to A&E.
The purpose of the role is to improve the patient experience and journey by either discharging patients at the scene or referring them onward to the most appropriate service.
By providing an immediate diagnosis, assessment, and often treatment, APPs reduce crowding in emergency care settings such as ambulances and urgent care centres.
“Many paramedics trained to become APPs to offer solutions to problems in the emergency healthcare system such as queues and crowding For many, it also played a key part in career development by opening up new career pathways outside of a typical ambulance service setting.
It also provided many with the opportunity to go back into education” explains Colin O'Keeffe, Research Fellow at the School of Health and Related Research.
Between 2002 and 2005 a randomised trial (funded by the Health Foundation) was undertaken to determine the impact of APPs on the care of older people with minor illness or injuries who called 999 for help.
Researchers evaluated the role of APPs by assessing the management of acute illness and injuries in older patients.
In the trial of 3,018 patients, APPs significantly reduced patient transfers to the Emergency Department by 24.9% and hospital admissions by 6.1% when compared with usual care.
The service presented a cost saving of £150 per patient and operated safely, with very high levels of satisfaction for patients.
“The idea for trialling the impact of APPs on the care of the elderly came from consultants who worked in the Sheffield Emergency Department.
They had noticed an increasing number of older people coming into the department over the years who didn’t really require emergency care.
The trial results showed that APPs were able to offer timely support for these problems, as well as the social element, in the comfort of the patient’s home, rather than bringing them to wait uncomfortably in the Emergency Department” says Colin O'Keeffe.
A patient care pathway refers to all the services that patients interact with during an illness or injury.
A Sheffield study, funded by the Changing Workforce Programme of the Department of Health, evaluated the impact of APPs on the patient care pathways.
The data showed that 54% of patients that had contact with APPs did not require referral to other services.
This lowered average cost per patient from £55 in the Emergency Department to £24 for contact with an APP.
The results showed that APPs provided more treatments, discharged more patients and had higher levels of patient satisfaction.
This highlights that APPs are essential for reducing the cost of care.
They provide better services for patients by enabling them to be treated in the comfort of their own home and help to relieve the burden on emergency care services.
Sheffield researchers led a multi-centre controlled trial funded by the National Institute for Health Research HS&DR Programme (2005-2008) to compare patient care offered by APPs in different clinical settings.
The study compared patient care with APPs with standard care across different settings such as ambulance services, GP out of hours services, walk-in centres, and urgent care centres.
The trial included 5,525 patient outcomes.
The study showed that APPs significantly reduced onward referral to hospital services compared with their standard provider counterparts.
This was especially the case when they provided a mobile service to the patient (e.g.
ambulance services) and were targeted at the elderly population.
The research outlined above demonstrates that allied health professionals (primarily paramedics) working in extended or new roles as APPs are effective, cost effective, safe, and acceptable to patients.
In 2018 the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) issued new guidance on service delivery and organisation for emergency and acute medical care in over 16s.
A recommendation within the guidance was to, “Provide specialist and advanced paramedic practitioners who have extended training in assessing and treating people with medical emergencies.” This guidance was based exclusively on evidence referenced directly from the clinical and cost effectiveness research undertaken at the University of Sheffield.
Since Sheffield conducted research that proves the many benefits of integrating APPs into the healthcare system, there has been a considerable growth in numbers of APPs employed by English ambulance services in advanced roles between 2014 and 2020.
The work of the Sheffield clinical and academic team has also influenced the establishment of similar schemes internationally.
The cost effectiveness evidence shown in trials has been cited by an Australian report on expanding the role of paramedics in minor injury and illness, funded by Health Workforce Australia.
Centre for Urgent and Emergency Care (CURE) Research Group
Sheffield Centre for Health and Related Research (SCHARR)
Faculty of Health

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/energy/research-stories/energy-powerful-resource:
Everything needs resources; energy is one of the critical resources.
But our growing population and desire to consume is demanding more.
At current rates of economic growth and development we’re going to run out of resources, including energy...
If we compare earth’s history to a calendar year, modern human life has been on earth for about 23 minutes, and in the last 0.2 seconds we’ve used one-third of earth’s natural resources.
If we continue using resources at the rate we are, soon we could have have nothing left.
To make sure our energy supplies don’t run out we need to use less and make everything more sustainable, from how we produce food to how we heat our homes.
Lenny Koh, a Professor in Operations Management at the University of Sheffield, has spent the last 18 years trying to make sure we don’t run out of resources like energy.
Her approach is based on a concept called ‘life cycle thinking’ coupled with systems theory..
For a loaf of bread to end up in our bread bins a series of steps have to be completed, from growing the wheat to baking and transporting the bread to the supermarket.
Each of these stages requires a certain amount of energy.
How much energy is determined by how sustainable the process is.
By considering the entire life cycle of a loaf of bread or any other process, and looking at each stage in detail, we can determine where energy can be saved and carbon footprints can be reduced by making the process more sustainable.
Life cycle thinking coupled with systems theory provides the framing to understand a resources impact, both directly and indirectly.
This is important for everyone from organisations, to industry to entire countries if we want to achieve resource sustainability.
Professor Lenny Koh
Chair Professor in Operations Management, Founders and Directors of the Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) Research Centre at the Management School & the Faculty’s Centre for Energy, Environment and Sustainability (CEES), at The University of Sheffield
That’s where Lenny’s work comes in.
For the past eight years, Lenny has been developing a software tool, in partnership with Microsoft, that industry experts can use to look at their own supply chains and see how it can be made more efficient.
It’s a Supply Chain Environmental Analysis Tool, otherwise known as SCEnAT.
This cloud based software consists of life cycle assessment software and supply chain mapping which can be customised.
“For the loaf of bread SCEnAT can identify the point in the process where the most carbon is produced so we know what’s most important to change,” says Lenny.
Countries all over the world are benefitting from SCEnAT, including China.
China’s policy makers have applied the principles of the tool and life cycle thinking coupled with systems theory to several key policies to create a resource efficient system.
“China is the world’s second-largest economy and a key partner in the global supply chain.
By adopting the principles of supply chain efficiency and sustainable growth and development they’re demonstrating vision and leadership.
I’m really proud that my research has helped contribute to this journey,” says Lenny.
The latest version, SCEnAT 4.0, is powered by Microsoft Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Deep Learning.
It’s capable of making sustainability predictions within industry to help understand the environmental, economic and social impacts of energy.
SCEnAT 4.0, and all the tools that came before it, act as frameworks for governments to address resource scarcity and sustainability challenges.
Lenny’s work is a perfect fit for the Energy Institute.“When policy makers, governments and industry are planning for the future, they need to think about a sustainable and energy efficient eco-system.
I’m thrilled to see my research being used in a way that’s good for the planet and the Energy Institute will allow us to do so much more good.
We can develop new links with industry and change the way we produce and use resources including energy across the globe," says Lenny.
Our energy infrastructure is changing to keep up with increasing global demand.
With resource efficient systems and digital platforms like SCEnAT we’ll be able to power the future sustainably.
Professor Lenny Koh, is a Chair Professor in Operations Management, Founders and Directors of the Logistics and Supply Chain Management (LSCM) Research Centre at the Management School.
More about SCEnAT 4.0
By Alicia Shephard
Conceptualizing a circular framework of supply chain resource sustainability
The environmental impact of fertilizer embodied in a wheat-to-bread supply chain
Integrated hybrid life cycle assessment and supply chain environmental profile evaluations of lead-based versus lead-free piezoelectric ceramics
Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council
The Science and Technology Facilities Council
Higher Education Funding Council for England - N8 Agrifood
Leverhulme Trust Climate Change Mitigation Centre
European Regional Development Fund
Economic and Social Research Council
Innovate UK
Amy Huxtable Media Relations Officer University of Sheffield 0114 222 9859 a.l.huxtable@sheffield.ac.uk
Research pillars
We work with businesses to develop practical low carbon solutions for the energy industry.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/solar:
A few years ago the UK's electricity came almost entirely from a few dozen power stations.
Today, solar electricity comes from nearly a million homes, schools, hospitals, supermarkets, factories and fields.
How do you track a million invisible electricity creators?
It’s difficult to walk into National Grid’s Electricity System Operator (ESO) Control Room without an overwhelming feeling that you shouldn’t be there.
A panorama of blinking lights and live data, dominated by a huge screen makes it feel more like mission control than a head office.
But this is National Grid ESO’s nerve centre for balancing the electricity network.
A space so critical to the UK’s energy infrastructure that only a select few are allowed inside, the ESO Control Room tracks and manages the flow of supply and demand to make sure everything from your kettle to the lights in Wembley Stadium stay on 24/7, 365 days a year...
At the front of the room is a colourful map of the UK’s electricity transmission system network.
And at the bottom of this  display is a chart that shows where the electricity comes from.
It’s called the generation mix and for years it’s listed traditional energy sources – coal, gas, nuclear, and so on.
Three years ago a new figure was added to the board.
Photo-Voltaic energy (or PV) means solar power and it’s one of the new renewable kids on the block.
PV turns free energy from the sun into usable electricity and it has the potential to save UK bill payers millions of pounds every year.
This new figure is a measure of the amount of PV power being generated.
It’s based on analysis and calculations by the University of Sheffield.
And it has an extraordinary journey that, fittingly for green energy, starts in the windswept wilds of the Peak District 25 years ago...
Alastair Buckley is a Professor in Physics at the University of Sheffield and an orienteerer.
Alastair came to Sheffield as a student in large part because of the city’s position as unofficial UK capital of the sport – a cross between running and map reading – with locations like the Peak District offering spectacular locations for racing.
His development of ‘PV_Live’ – a real time service for predicting the UK’s solar output – or outturn as it’s called in industry – has revolutionised energy management.
But it started with orienteering…
When Alastair arrived in Sheffield in 2008, solar power was just starting to take off.
“In 2010, the government was offering feed-in tariffs to encourage  commercial installations, so we set up Sheffield Solar Farm to measure how well different kinds of PV array performed,” Alastair explains while we wend our way through the Farm’s rooftop solar panels in the late summer sunshine.
That farm helped develop an understanding of the variables that go to make up an individual unit’s efficiency and output.
But while physicists like Alastair were excitedly getting to grips with a new generation of consumer solar panel technology, on the other side of the country, the emergence of this new energy source presented substantial challenges for the National Grid.
National Grid connects supply with demand for 60 million people.
For decades that meant gas, coal, nuclear and oil.
But solar changed everything.
The biggest factor with solar power was that it had evolved to become an invisible part of the generation mix.
Jack Barber
Former Senior Energy Forecaster, National Grid
His explanation of the step change solar power presented for a huge organisation like National Grid suggests the challenge wasn’t so much to think big as think small.
“We were used to dealing with traditional forms of power generation where the individual generators were all at a large scale – producing at least 100 megawatts each.
Solar power works at a much smaller scale.
There were thousands of small solar panels installed around the country, but none of them were visible to us.
From the National Grid’s point of view, solar power was this volatile, unknown factor that kept disrupting our way of working…”
Managing the transmission system network is about balancing generation and demand in real time.
Imbalance affects the frequency of the electric current on the system.
And those fluctuations in frequency can have results that range from the inconvenient – such as a television that won’t come on – to, in the case of very rare large frequency changes, shutting off sections of the grid and the power outages that incurs.
Without having any visibility of how much solar was being generated at any given time, the ESO had to mitigate by having additional coal and gas power stations on standby.
But whilst the emergence of solar presented many operational challenges, for Alastair, it was an opportunity to capture and play with data.
And luckily, the emergence of this network of invisible power generation was taking place at the same time as the 21st century’s digital age was transforming the amount of data we could track, analyse and store.
At this time, solar was generated more or less equally by private homeowners and commercial solar farms.
A substantial resource, but also a relatively unpredictable one.
And that’s where Alastair’s interest in orienteering provided inspiration.
Orienteering’s a close-knit, competitive community.
Much like the people running solar microgenerators from their rooftop, orienteers are fascinated by the data they produce and hungry for access to stats.
But orienteers had a way of capturing their data.
The website ‘ Attackpoint ’ is almost 20 years old, which makes it four years older than Facebook and positively ancient in internet terms.
Like Facebook, Attackpoint hinges on community – and that community’s data, centrally – to survive.
“One of the things that orienteers do is share their training and racing logs.” Alastair explains.
“Attackpoint lets you enter and track the times and distances of your training runs and the split times from your races.”
It struck Alastair that you could do something similar with PV data: a central database where people would be invited to submit data on the combinations of solar panels – also known as ‘arrays’ – being installed up and down the country.
Named the Microgen Database, it offered users performance analysis of how their systems compared with others – in exchange for Alastair getting access to users’ data.
A crowd-sourcing data collection tool that quickly built a community and fuelled Alastair’s research into UK PV performance, Microgen pulled in monthly uploaded data from over a thousand solar array systems across the UK and provided several journal papers and conference proceedings on characterising PV performance.
“Today Microgen gets talked about as an example of citizen science,” Alastair explains.
“But back then I wasn’t especially aware of the term.
I just thought it was a good way to collect data...”
In its early days, the Microgen Database was just a small component of a larger project.
Alastair was able to fund it as part of other research projects.
But over time it became clear that the data that had been collected was more valuable than the other research that was funding it.
“We needed to refocus solely on the database”, Alastair explains.
“And that meant aligning the database to an industrial need.”
The clock was ticking, and Alastair knew that if the funding stopped and collection of data halted – even for just a short period – the Microgen database would become useless.
Continuity was everything.
And the potential value of the database was growing by the day thanks to the dramatic expansion of the solar power industry.
Over 800,000 individual solar PV systems were installed in the UK between 2010 and 2017, capable of generating up to 10 gigawatts of electrical power.
That’s roughly a quarter of the typical summer day time peak demand.
(The record PV contribution to the UK’s energy mix was around 25% in May in both 2018 and 2019).
It was an expansion that took Alastair to London for a workshop at the Institution of Mechanical Engineering in Westminster to discuss its implications.
And a fateful meeting...
“The idea was for us to identify any barriers that might prevent Britain’s energy system from having considerably more solar power generation in the future.” Alastair remembers.
“I walked in and I took a seat next to this young guy, who introduced himself as being from the energy forecasting team at National Grid ESO.
He said something about needing loads of data on solar power generation, and I remember being amazed that they had so little, so I took out my iPad and showed him the Microgen Database.”
“I hadn’t seen so much data in one place before!” says Jack.
“My job was all about creating forecasting models to predict supply and demand one, two or three days ahead, but especially for the current day.
And forecasting models require data.
This was just what I needed.”
“Within minutes we were basically planning to put together what would end up being the PV_Live project,” Alastair says...
That plan would be easy to articulate and difficult to deliver.
A near real-time UK PV generation figure.
“The idea was quite simple really,” explains Jamie Taylor, a former MPhys student at the University of Sheffield and now Senior Data Scientist.
“We’d mine our Microgen database to get accurate generation data from a sample of PV systems for a given half hour, which is the size of period that National Grid works in.
We would then scale that up to give a representative real time PV performance across the country, and feed that figure into the ESO.”
And that was the first challenge.
Solar’s extraordinary growth meant Microgen’s data set had become too small to scale up to the million systems that made up the UK solar energy network.
And useful though its data was, it wasn’t close to real time.
Enter forward thinking smart tech energy co, PassivSystems .
They’d already been contributing to the Microgen database for a couple of years, but it was the drive from the ESO to provide much more data that really meant the vision for PV Live could be realised.
“Microgen fuelled our research and  informed the modelling approach that is used in PV_Live,” explains Jamie.
“But to actually operate PV_Live it was crucial we got PassivSystems on board.”
PassivSystems massive dataset enabled Alastair and his team to begin the fundamental science of PV_Live: ‘training’ a statistical model that would upscale their data set to predict outturn for the one million systems deployed on the network.
The output they were looking to define was a function – something they could pass a load of inputs into that would produce a national outturn figure.
That function consisted of 30 coefficients – everything from the location, orientation and tilt of the PV system to the intrinsic quality of the installation.
Once they were defined, the function was ‘trained’ and then evaluated by by feeding it a combination of solar capacity data and near-live data from PassivSystems.
It’s a description that makes data science sound like running a zoo, but Jamie highlights how ‘datamunging’ messy sets of information is a Sheffield speciality.
It’s equal parts scientific discovery and development of algorithms to model performance.
Jamie Taylor
Former MPhys student at the University of Sheffield
“But the best thing for me is that National Grid ESO are using the outputs of our research in real time.
Most research projects, especially in physics, tend to be very low TRL (Technology Readiness Level), but PV_Live as we designed it is now part of National Grid ESO’s day-to-day operations.
The ‘as-developed’ solution became the ‘as-implemented’ solution, which is pretty rare.”
“The PV data that PV_Live provides is critical to the management of the transmission system,” says Kevin Tilley, who now helps to embed the results of the project within National Grid ESO, “We use the PV data to help forecast and monitor the national power requirements on the network in real time, and shortly after the first delivery of the data, we were able to improve our forecasts of these flows for the first time in years.
Engineers in our planning teams have also been able to predict the regional flows more accurately around the network, enabling safer and more economic operation.”
It’s a sunny day.
At time of writing the UK is serving 5.8 GW via solar – which means its serving 17% of GB’s demand.
And I haven’t had to go to National Grid ESO’s Control Centre to get that figure.
The Sheffield Solar website shares the data that goes to the National Grid.
Data based on thousands of people across the UK, a chance meeting in a workshop and an exhausting sport that really tells its participants where they are.
Special thanks to The Wellbeck Estate for photography.
Sheffield Solar
Sheffield Solar, Twitter
Alastair Buckley, The University of Sheffield
Ultrasonic spray coating as an approach for large-area polymer OLEDs: The influence of thin film processing and surface roughness on electrical performance
Co-producing energy futures: impacts of participatory modelling
A review of energy systems models in the UK: Prevalent usage and categorisation
Emma Griffiths Media and PR Assistant The University of Sheffield 0114 222 1034 e.l.griffiths@sheffield.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/research/case-studies/solving-uks-number-one-water-quality-complaint:
Drinking water discolouration is the number one cause of customer contacts.
Drinking water discolouration is the number one cause of customers contacting their supplier.
It is a challenge influenced by a number of factors, including where the water comes from, the water treatment processes and the vast hidden network of pipes used to distribute water.
Professor Joby Boxall and Dr Stewart Husband, from the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering at Sheffield, have an impressive track record in research associated with the Prediction and management of Discolouration in Distribution Systems (PODDS).
Since 2013, research funded by a consortium of 13 UK water companies, representing 77 per cent of the UK’s water distribution network, has focused on discolouration associated with trunk mains.
Trunk mains are critical assets where discolouration events can affect millions of downstream customers.
Conventional physical interventions to control discolouration in trunk mains were disruptive and often reliant on the construction of millions of pounds worth of alternative supply routes.
Sheffield’s research concept is that discolouration is due to accumulated layers of particulate material on pipe walls, that are released when the shear stress of the flow exceeds their hydraulically conditioned strength.
Testing using a unique full-scale laboratory system at Sheffield has enhanced this understanding.
Combining these insights with analysis and simulation of over 1000 field and laboratory applications in the UK, and internationally, including Australia, the US and Europe, has demonstrated real-world discolouration linked to microbially-based processes for the first time.
Sheffield’s research focused on developing operational strategies, supported by improved modelling tools, which were then validated with all the water company consortium members.
The research has enabled a step-change in the long-term, network-wide identification and management of drinking water discolouration from trunk mains, which has had far-reaching impact.
Application of the research to the operation of 2,686km of UK trunk mains delivered over £411m in cost-savings in operational and capital expenditure.
It has enhanced water service delivery in the UK and worldwide and supported improved compliance with drinking water standards.
Knowledge from the research has been included in international best practice guidance.
Chief Executive of Northumbrian Water stated: “The research has delivered a new understanding of the root causes of discolouration in water networks that will revolutionise industry procedures.”*

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/biomass-mission:
Set to launch in 2025, the European Space Agency BIOMASS mission will attempt to measure the biomass in the Earth's forests (and its changes) from an altitude of 600km.
Its lead scientist is Professor Shaun Quegan of the School of Mathematics and Statistics.
Forests act as major controls on climate through their effects on CO2, the main atmospheric greenhouse gas.
When they are destroyed by deforestation or fire, CO2 is emitted to the atmosphere, while growing forests slow the upward trend in atmospheric CO2 by capturing carbon through photosynthesis and storing it within plant biomass.
The size of these two opposing effects is poorly known.
BIOMASS aims to close this major gap in our knowledge and, in doing so, fundamentally improve our understanding of the Earth's carbon balance and climate change.
Although tropical forests are especially critical for climate, data on their biomass are very limited because they are huge, diverse, remote and difficult to access.
They also have much higher biomass per unit area than most of the better-documented forests of Europe, North America and Eurasia.
Shaun tells us that, without the BIOMASS mission, we wouldn’t have an accurate assessment of how much wood is in these forests and hence how their changes affect the climate.
BIOMASS is specifically designed to measure these high biomass tropical forests by flying, for the first time in space, a radar operating with a 70 cm wavelength.
This wavelength is a careful balance between high sensitivity to biomass and technical feasibility in the presence of the ionosphere.
This layer of charged particles in the Earth’s atmosphere threatens to distort and potentially destroy the data collected, and one of Prof.
Quegan’s major contributions to the mission was to show how to overcome these problems.
Apart from its wavelength, the mission is unique in many other ways, as it will not only measure the height and biomass of forests, but will also generate 3D maps of forests using a technique called radar tomography.
The BIOMASS mission is set to fundamentally change our understanding of the Earth’s carbon balance and, as a result, climate change.
Professor Shaun Quegan
Professor at the School of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Sheffield
Prof.
Quegan won the 2018 NERC Economic Impact Award (these are awarded every three years) for his leadership of the BIOMASS mission, which led to Airbus UK being awarded a contract for €229M, as well as his technical contributions.
We are entering a golden era for measuring forest properties from space, as ESA will benefit from measurements made by the NASA Global Ecosystems Dynamics Investigation (GEDI), a lidar instrument on the International Space Station, and the NASA/Indian Space Research Organisation NISAR mission, a radar operating with a 24 cm wavelength.
The combined capability of these missions will give unprecedented knowledge about forest structure and how it is changing, and hence the role of forests in climate change.
Earth's carbon balance, ecosystem modelling, forest observations from space
The Goldilocks effect: Weighing the world’s forests (via NERC)
Correcting Distortion of Polarimetric SAR Data Induced by Ionospheric Scintilla…
Coverage of high biomass forests by the ESA BIOMASS mission under defense restr…

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/pesticide-paradox-creating-safe-killer:
Pesticides are a key part of modern agriculture, but with often unpredictable effects damaging crucial elements of our ecosystem, where does regulation draw the line?
Professor Lorraine Maltby explains how we can mitigate ecological harm by changing the way we think about our environment.
Imagine leaving the house tomorrow morning to find a dead beetle lying on the pavement.
Unlike seeing a bird fall out of the sky, it probably won’t set off instant alarm bells.
In fact, it’s unlikely we’d even notice.
That beetle, however, might’ve been responsible for recycling decomposing trees or even pollinating flowers during its short life.
Tiny differences in our surroundings like this have the potential to impact our lives in ways that are bigger than we realise.
Far from being just a fragment of popular culture, the butterfly effect (or perhaps more fittingly in this case – the beetle effect) has the potential to cause unpredictable changes to our environment, biodiversity and ultimately livelihoods.
Nothing quite illustrates this concept better than pesticides.
The abundance of food that awaits us at every trip to the supermarket simply wouldn’t exist if not for these chemical concoctions destroying the unwanted organisms that harm crops.
But their misuse can often have destructive consequences.
The problem is pesticides are damaging by nature.
Professor Lorraine Maltby is an environmental biologist and ecologist from The University of Sheffield.
She explains: “Pesticides are designed to be biologically active and can therefore adversely affect biodiversity and the benefits people derive from ecosystems.
That means there’s no such thing as a truly safe pesticide – a safe pesticide is one that doesn’t work.”
That begs the question: what’s an acceptable effect for a pesticide and what isn’t?
In using pesticides, can we ever be sure we won’t be affecting the life around us?
Published by the European Food Safety Authority, the latest guidance document on the environmental risks of pesticides in aquatic ecosystems has drawn on scientific developments to improve risk assessment, including by Lorraine and her team at Sheffield.
The guidance has been applicable to any EU member state wanting to register a pesticide since 2015 and by March 2020 22 per cent of pesticide registrations submitted to the EU were not approved for use due to unacceptable environmental impacts identified using this guidance.
Among its effects, the guidance has identified specific goals for protecting aquatic life as well as informed key decisions for risk assessors.
It will steer us towards solving the puzzle of how to use pesticides to deliver the effects we want at minimal cost to the planet.
And it’s a new approach to answering the fundamental question of ‘acceptable effect’ in pesticides.
Since 2003, Lorraine has been building up an evidence base to better equip the world with dealing with these chemicals.
As well as laboratory experiments and field investigations into how pesticides affect both single species and communities of different organisms, studies were also conducted in model mimics of freshwater ditches.
Using information gathered from literature and industry files, it was also possible to carry out modelling and analyses to predict the effects and sensitivity of these species to pesticides under realistic conditions.
It’s this focus on working from a real-life framework that really matters, that has formed the basis for Lorraine’s work on the document.
We’re using this information to try and understand three main things, what ecological systems provide us in terms of benefits – known as ecosystem services – how those benefits are driven by the types of organisms present and the things they do, then what potential effects pesticides have on those organisms.
Professor Lorraine Maltby
Professor of Environmental Biology
Weighing up these ecosystem services with the other considerations – the human, the economic, the social – and relating it to what people need and care about may at last allow us to start thinking about pesticides in a holistic way.
But the sheer breadth of EU-wide regulation poses a key problem for the specificity and relevance of current risk assessment.
Risk assessors face a tricky compromise: it’s simply too time-consuming for every country to generate their own data specific to their needs and considerations… but this limits the types of organisms we’re able to monitor and means we might miss unexpected and unacceptable effects.
In order to turn answers into action, how do we extrapolate from what scientists measure at their lab benches to the creatures, plants and habitats we’re actually trying to protect?
Pesticides have the collective power to eradicate all manner of pests that threaten the survival and growth of crops… and even those that don’t.
Runoff from fields and overspraying adjacent habitats, for example, can result in pesticides entering ponds, rivers or seas, causing fish population decline and biodiversity loss.
This is happening across the world and is the key reason the EFSA guidance focuses on aquatic environments.
Surely, then, such damaging potential warrants a tight and thorough regulation process?
… Except how it currently works is to carry out individual studies on different species – one on fish, another on a water flea called Daphnia , a third on green algae, for example – then base risk assessment and protection decisions on these results.
But Lorraine points out that testing just a handful of species isn’t going to give us the information we need.
“Those studies are to protect the whole environment.
Although that has its advantages in that it’s standardised and therefore replicable, the real question is what do you do with that information?
What is it telling you?
“There’s obvious uncertainty with each of the extrapolations we make from this.
Because of that, we might question how we can go from knowing the effect of a chemical on a little daphnia in a jam jar to all the invertebrates out there.”
Tricky though the situation may seem, however, there are steps we can take to bridge the gap.
“What we’re trying to do is to filter out the most harmful chemicals and effects as we go through different tiers of complexity in a very robust approach,” Lorraine says.
“We’re addressing those uncertainties that arise from the extrapolation and trying to peel some of them away at each level of regulation.
She elaborates: “You start with a very simple standardised approach where those really harmful chemicals are ruled out.
So what you’re trying to do is filter out the ones in the lower tiers which would never be accepted for use because their effects are too damaging.
We set out a regulatory framework where we can say: if these are the kinds of effects that these chemicals can have on these sorts of levels, beyond this level it’s not ecologically acceptable.”
This tiered approach, having been validated for use in the document, is paving the way for improved pesticide regulation and, crucially, action.
Among the methods utilised, investigating how to harmonise risk assessment across major EU legislation and how ecological theories can frame protection goals were just a few components to developing the approach.
As global biodiversity loss and environmental damage continue to increase, however, action is needed more than ever.
But the biggest change will have to come from ourselves…
In the midst of a problematic global situation, where important trade-offs between human gain and environmental harm need to be made, simply advancing in our scientific knowledge may not necessarily lead to better management for the future.
Lorraine says it ultimately comes down to us to decide how everything turns out.
She cautions: “At the end of the day, this is society’s decision.
It’s society that can influence the decisions of the regulators and politicians.
I think we have sufficient knowledge to manage and do a reasonably good job at the moment, but we need to change our mindset.
As a society, we need to become more aware of how biodiversity is important to us and the multiple benefits we can get from ecosystems, and realise the implications of chemical use on those benefits from nature.”
Even so, she is optimistic that a shift in how we think and act will increase people’s involvement and lead to a shift in the types of conversations we’re having too.
“Currently we tend to talk about how plants and animals behave and interact, not what that means in terms of providing goods and services to people,” she says.
“It’s about having that conversation with people about why they should care about protecting the environment.
Instead of thinking of ourselves as separate from it, we’re actually all in it together and we have to work together in order for us all to survive.
“Keeping the conversation going and getting many different groups of people involved in it is really important,” she concludes.
Yet at the beginning, Lorraine admits that her interest in the environment and its inhabitants didn’t extend to considering what it might provide us.
She cites her career and research in facilitating the change in her personal outlook on the problem, now preferring to take a more social dimension instead of just going by the cold hard numbers.
“For me that’s the most interesting bit,” she says resolutely.
“It gives me a good sense of satisfaction to know that we’re actually making a difference.
And that’s the key thing – that our research makes a difference.”
Helping to better our global situation is still an ongoing process for Lorraine: her current projects are extending her risk assessment approach to other chemical sectors as well as environmental issues, including understanding the impacts of chemicals under scenarios of future climate change.
In the end, though, what will make the real difference is our value of ecosystems and whether we’re willing to make the change.
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/sheffield-zaatari-and-back-feeding-world-foam:
An abandoned school isn’t where you’d expect to find researchers trying to solve the problem of feeding a world of 10 billion.
Then again, neither is a refugee camp.
But this team of University of Sheffield researchers are nothing short of resourceful.
A unique project born out of innovative Sheffield science is giving families displaced by war the opportunity to grow fresh food in the desert using the most unlikely of materials – discarded mattresses.
But time is running out.
Without your help, the Desert Garden project will end.
Will you help secure its future?
Find out how you can help
Summer temperatures in Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan – the world’s largest camp for people displaced by the Syrian Civil War – reach around 37℃.
So when University of Sheffield researcher Tony Ryan visited he was relieved to be invited out of the glaring heat and into the comparative cool of one of the camp’s warehouses.
Inside, piled from floor to ceiling, were mattresses.
Used, discarded mattresses.
Tony, a Chemistry Professor from the University of Sheffield, and his team were in Zaatari working with refugees to develop useful products out of waste materials.
They were converting surplus bikes that had been fished from canals 4,000 miles away in Amsterdam into rickshaws to take children to school, wind turbines for power and walking frames for children with cerebral palsy.
The mattresses, however, marked the beginning of something even greater…
Refugee camps are temporary settlements by definition and the images that flash across the news are often those of improvised, impersonal homes.
But that’s in part because those living there aren’t allowed to do anything that suggests their settlement is permanent; having a job, fixing their home or planting into the ground are all forbidden.
This is the reality of camp life.
Zaatari’s refugees have come from a world where they were farmers, engineers and doctors and now they’re stripped of not only their homes, but much of what defined who they were.
The majority of the 80,000 refugees in the Zaatari camp came from the Dara’a region in Syria, a region known for its fertile soil and an abundance of farmers.
But, the soil in Zaatari is salty and low in organic matter.
Even if the camp’s farmers were able to plant into the ground, the conditions make it less than ideal.
A lack of water also presents a challenge.
Each refugee in the camp receives 37 litres of water a day, which sounds like a lot, but not when you need 214 litres of water to produce a kilo of tomatoes.
What the refugees didn’t realise was that they had a warehouse full of solutions.
Before his trip to Zaatari, Tony and his colleague Professor Duncan Cameron, a Soil Microbiologist at the University of Sheffield, had taken on a PhD student, Harry Wright.
Harry’s PhD research focuses on the use of polyurethane foams to grow high value crops for food production.
When Tony was shown the mattresses, the penny dropped.
“The two things just came together,” he said.
The mattresses could be repurposed as a growing medium for plants.
But where did these mattresses come from in the first place?
It turns out the UN Refugee Agency, who are responsible for the Zaatari camp as well as others, provide its inhabitants with polyurethane foam mattresses as part of the basic setup.
However, once these mattresses have been used they can’t be reused by someone else, but they can be repurposed.
So this is what they did.
They used the foam as a growing medium for the crops in a hydroponic system.
In normal agricultural processes, soil supports a plant’s roots, but in a hydroponics system plants are supported artificially and suspended away from the ground.
The mattress foam provided the artificial support for the plant.
Nutrient solutions and water can then be pumped into the foam for the plant.
Unlike the soil in Zaatari, the foam holds onto all of this, so it’s constantly available for the plant to use.
Given the soil conditions and regulations in the refugee camp, this was a winning solution.
It had the potential to give the farmers the opportunity to apply their years of experience and skills to meaningful purpose, and at the same time produce food to eat and sell.
After the idea was introduced and the refugees were trained in the basic principles, the project took on a life of its own.
The camp’s residents applied their years of farming experiences to the principles of hydroponics and soon after the system went live.
For Tony this was a powerful motivator.
I learnt a lot from people who are farmers, and the power of truly multidisciplinary teams.
The key thing is trust.
You need to want to take your science out of its silo with people who you can benefit from and who can benefit from you.
Tony Ryan
Chemistry Professor
Across the camp more than 3000 refugees have been trained to use mattress foam as an alternative to soil.
“A lot of the residents seem to keep coming back with more and more resources and nutrients.
One person I trained has 200 plants he’s growing hydroponically,” said Harry.
For its residents, life in a refugee camp can be unpredictable.
But this work is bringing purpose and structure.
“It’s allowing people to have a mug of mint tea whenever they want,” Tony tells us.
This work means Zaatari’s residents no longer have to rely completely on external charities for food to eat or sell and trade.
But this wouldn’t have been possible without the refugees themselves.
They taught the Sheffield team how to truly optimise plant growth in these systems and how to make it work on a community level.
And now these lessons are being applied to a new project, more than 3000 miles away, back in Sheffield.
An abandoned school in Tinsley in Sheffield isn’t the first place you’d think to build a farm, but that didn't stop Jake Nickles.
Jake, a Knowledge Exchange Associate at the University of Sheffield, turned the Tinsley space into an urban farm which, much like the system in Zaatari, relied on hydroponics to grow crops.
But, unlike Zaatari, Sheffield doesn’t have the same availability of mattress foam, so an alternative solution for the hydroponics system had to be found.
As part of Harry’s PhD he was developing different foams that could be used commercially in hydroponics systems.
The foam development is coming along well, but it’s not without its challenges.
To get the foam to best resemble soil small bits of clay are added which make the foam more closely resemble the physical properties of soil, but these block up the machine being used to make the foam.
So it’s a work in progress, but since the project began two more PhD students have been recruited to help with its development as well as looking at ways to make the foam biodegradable.
And there’s a definite need for an optimised growth medium.
Currently industry standards, like rockwool, are used to grow crops on a commercial scale but these come with a set of disadvantages.
Rockwool requires really high energy to make and once it’s done with it’s difficult to get rid of in a safe and sustainable way.
Hydroponics isn’t new, but it’s nice to see it optimised,” Jake says.
The work on foam is attempting to develop a resource that chemically, physically and biologically resembles soil.
But the work is also trying to make it even better than soil and so far it’s succeeding.
The plants grown in this urban setting grow two to ten times faster than they do in soil, however, this isn’t down to the hydroponics alone.
The system has been combined with controlled growing environments and low cost technology.
And it does all this whilst staying cost effective.”
Unfortunately, due to funding challenges and the Covid-19 pandemic, the Tinsley Urban Farm had to be dismantled.
The team are still investigating foams in the labs at The University of Sheffield, and hope to be able to set up a similar hydroponic urban farm, that can bring fruit and vegetables to local communities, in the future.
The work in Zaatari has proven that we can grow crops in the middle of the desert, in the height of summer with little more than some foam from an old mattress.
And if we can do that, it’s no wonder that with a little extra technology and environmental control, we can grow the very food we need to put onto our own supermarket shelves in a local and sustainable way.
“For me, the beautiful part of the story is that the things we’ve learnt in a refugee camp have now been applied to Sheffield,” Tony tells us.
Across the planet there are 2 billion people who are chronically hungry.
That’s over a third of the world.
With the population set to grow to 10 billion by 2050, if something doesn’t change the problem will only get worse.
These projects alone won’t feed the world, but they’ll certainly take some of the pressure off.
In Oman, a country that borders Saudi Arabia, food prices soar to quadruple their usual price in the summer when temperatures reach highs of 50°C.
The Sheffield team took on this challenge as part of their work to find solutions to the world’s growing food crisis.
The solution they found was a greenhouse, but not your ordinary greenhouse.
This was designed to provide a cooler environment, rather than a hotter one, using evaporative cooling.
It also encompassed technology from across the University, giving it truly multidisciplinary power.
They built a desalination system that required little more than power generated by the sun and converted seawater into freshwater, an evaporative cooling system, as well as hydroponics and aquaponics.
The benefit of such a greenhouse is that it could become a ‘drop package’, one that could be transported all over the world and provide food on a local scale.
The greenhouse can be adapted to any country in the world; if it’s not hot then evaporative cooling can be omitted or if there’s an abundance of freshwater then solar desalination is unnecessary.
The greenhouse has been instrumental in demonstrating that the functional technologies required to grow crops in the middle of Omani summer work, and have the potential to be applied elsewhere.
It’s the same functional technology that’s supported the work in Zaatari and in Sheffield.
“Oman taught us how to do what we needed to do in Zaatari in the right place, and it’s where the foundational technology was proved to work,” says Duncan.
In September 2021, Quorn launched a special initiative to inspire creative filmmakers to come together and raise awareness of one of humanity’s biggest challenges: the future of our food.
The Quorn ‘Pioneers Film Fund,’ created in association with planetSHINE was set up to kick-start an important conversation around the future of our food.
The Catastrophe Garden - a film about The University of Sheffield's Desert Garden project was one of the three winning films.
It is a daring idea: to grow food from old mattresses in a desolate camp at the edge of a war zone.
This is the extraordinary story of three eccentric scientists and their mission to feed Syrian refugees, amid unfolding personal disasters.
Low-carbon, local food, grown from waste, in one of the driest and most punishing environments in the world.
If it works, it could help hundreds of thousands of people.
For more information about the Film Fund, visit the Quorn site .
Film produced by Smoke Trail Productions
Written by:
Alicia Shephard Research Marketing and Content Coordinator University of Sheffield
The Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
UK Research and Innovation Higher Education Innovation Fund
International Institute for Research and Innovation
Foreign & Commonwealth Office Science & Innovation Network for the Gulf
Tony Ryan, University of Sheffield
Tony Ryan, Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures
Harry Wright, Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/restorative-justice:
After being on the receiving end of a criminal offence you might find it uncomfortable to talk to the perpetrator.
But what if you could use that opportunity to get answers and explain the impact the offence had on your life?
In 2001, Professor Joanna Shapland and her research team at the University of Sheffield took on a momentous research project.
They were to evaluate three restorative justice schemes involving serious offences in England and Wales and the effect they had on perpetrators’ reoffending and victims’ needs.
This research was the first major evaluation of its kind in the world.
Two decades later this work has moved further afield and is now changing the way Scotland approaches rehabilitation and justice.
Restorative justice brings those harmed by crime or conflict, and those responsible for the harm, into communication.
It provides a safe, mediated space for the two parties to talk, allowing them both to play a part in repairing the damage and finding a positive way forward.
For it to take place, both parties must voluntarily come forward and the offender has to admit responsibility for the offence.
However, depending on the crime committed, restorative justice may not always be appropriate, particularly for complex cases with power imbalances, such as many instances of domestic abuse.
But restorative justice can be incredibly useful for other circumstances.
Joanna and her team found that, out of the participants who had been harmed, 80 per cent were satisfied with the process and outcome.
“
Those who’ve been harmed find the ability to communicate and ask questions really helpful and it tends to increase their faith in criminal justice.
It also significantly reduces the frequency of reconviction by offenders afterwards.
Professor Joanna Shapland
School of Law at the University of Sheffield
Because of her research, in October 2014 Joanna was appointed Chair of the Restorative Justice Forum (Scotland), the major body for developing restorative justice policy in Scotland.
The forum, which is officially observed by the Scottish government, brings together senior policy makers from Scottish statutory and voluntary sector agencies with academics.
It includes a practitioners' forum, bringing together restorative justice facilitators from agencies all over Scotland, and a researchers' forum, to inform the growing body of research and evaluation.
For Scotland, the forum has become the first point of call for all things restorative justice.
As a result, the forum was asked by the Scottish government to help draft statutory guidance on the topic.
“The guidance was to set out the values which should inform and embody restorative justice practices,” explains Joanna.
“It also needed to highlight the key principles of good practice, including the role of facilitators and the importance of risk assessments prior to the two parties communicating.” By October 2017 the guidance was published by the Scottish government.
"It now provides good practice guidance for the first time for all those working with both adults and young people who have harmed, as well as informing agencies as to what needs to be set up."
In addition to guidance for the Scottish government the forum is now helping to make the government's action plan happen.
It’s designed to support "the Scottish government’s commitment to have restorative justice services widely available across Scotland by 2023, with the interests of victims at their heart".
This puts restorative justice at the forefront of government priorities.
Much like the guidance, work on the action plan will formulate the best ways to deliver restorative justice on the ground in Scotland, and inform both practitioners and the general public, including those who have been harmed and those who have harmed.
The forum has also developed a much needed toolkit.
This is material we hope will help practitioners who are developing restorative justice practices.
It’s a whole collection of resources and example policies and documents which can be used by agencies developing their own policies and practices around Scotland.
“Restorative justice is important because it enables those who have harmed and those who have been on the receiving end to communicate with each other.
They can get answers.
It also has the potential to break down barriers and empowers those who’ve been harmed to have their say and express the impact it’s had on their life,” says Joanna.
Joanna's research and the work of the Restorative Justice Forum continues to have an impact.
It’s encouraged the Scottish government to make restorative justice a priority.
In doing so, they are reducing the likelihood of reoffending and reconviction as well as providing much needed closure to those involved.
Written by Alicia Shephard, Research Marketing and Content Coordinator
SACRO
Restorative Justice Action Plan
Does restorative justice affect reconviction?
Restorative Justice in Practice
Restorative justice: the views of victims and offenders
Police Knowledge Fund
Ministry of Justice
Criminology

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/creating-safer-global-environment-journalists:
Between 2002 and 2021, 1034 journalists were killed as a result of their work.
In over 85 per cent of these cases, the perpetrators were never prosecuted.
Research from the School of Journalism, Media and Communication is at the forefront of improving data collection to monitor and prevent future attacks.
According to UNESCO, human rights violations against journalists cover a broad spectrum, ranging from lethal attacks to forms of intimidation, criminalisation and physical and verbal abuse.
The online space is becoming increasingly hostile with journalists facing gendered attacks, hate speech, organised mass harassment, and systematic surveillance.
To protect journalists from further human rights violations committed against them, an in-depth understanding of the various attacks is required.
However, current data collection tends to focus predominantly on recording cases of journalist killings as the most serious form of attack.
In effect, a systematic account of the full range of abuse and the relationships between different violation events is currently missing.
Researchers from the  School of Journalism, Media and Communication are developing a data framework to achieve a better global understanding of the nature of human rights abuse against journalists.
The framework will facilitate a data shift from only recording physical violence and killings to monitoring the full range of abuse and violations.
This includes developing methodologies for tracking patterns in the escalations of violence, such as the progression of online threats to offline violence and of non-lethal attacks turning into lethal violence.
Leading the project is Professor Jackie Harrison, Head of the School of Journalism, Media and Communication and the UNESCO Chair on Media Freedom, Journalism Safety and the Issue of Impunity.
“Through our research, we have interrogated how data on violations against journalists is collected, we have identified key data challenges and have developed a proposal for a methodological framework for bridging current data gaps.
Reliable and verifiable data is absolutely crucial to establishing an evidence-base which we can use to understand the nature and full extent of violations against journalists and upon which measures can be taken to effectively redress such violations” she explains.
The research is undertaken in collaboration with Free Press Unlimited, a media development organisation with a mission to make independent news and information available to everyone.
The UN agenda for sustainable development outlines 17 goals that are designed to address growing global challenges
This project falls within the context of supporting the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Agenda which recognises the safe practice of journalism as an essential element for sustainable and human rights-centred development.
This project is primarily focused on SDG goal 16; to promote peaceful and inclusive societies.
In particular, the project hopes to support the monitoring of SDG indicator 16.10.1 which proposes the recording of the number of verified cases of killing, enforced disappearance, torture, arbitrary detention, kidnapping and other harmful acts committed against journalists annually
Progress on the indicator is assessed based on official statistics provided by governments, but importantly also by civil society actors who carry out independent monitoring and can provide data to complement such official accounts.
This kind of  “shadow monitoring” is crucial as a mechanism to hold states accountable, especially when there is a lack of political will on behalf of a state to provide relevant data on the indicator.
The current challenges, however, are that there is a lack of data on the full range of SDG 16.10.1 violation categories and that country-level monitoring is not systematically undertaken over time.
“What we are trying to achieve through this project is to develop infrastructural solutions to record data on violations against journalists in a harmonised way that also aligns with the SDG framework and its definitions of violations which is currently lacking” explains Dr Sara Torsner, Postdoctoral Research Associate at the Centre for Freedom of the Media ( CFOM ), School of Journalism, Media and Communication at the University of Sheffield.
Ultimately, this project is about reducing, mitigating and preventing the attacks that occur in the first place.
Documenting them on a systematic basis is the first step.
Dr Sara Torsner
Postdoctoral Research Associate at the School of Journalism, Media and Communication
Dr Diana Maynard, CFOM member, Senior Research Fellow at the Department of Computer Science and member of the Natural Language Processing research group is bringing expertise to the project on how natural language processing tools can support the automated extraction, systematisation and analysis of data against journalists.
“These AI and language processing techniques enable us to process large amounts of textual data and to provide increased data consistency.
They support the assessment and compilation of partial and contradictory data from a range of text sources about various elements constituting a given attack on a journalist, and connections between attacks, including various threats leading up to a lethal attack" highlights Dr Diana Maynard.
Following the development of the first iteration of the methodology for the monitoring framework, the next stage of the research project will rely on knowledge exchange with key civil society and UN stakeholders and working with local partners to understand how the framework can be developed to address their needs.
This stage will involve continuous testing and trialling to refine the monitoring framework and associated tools.
“Working closely with local civil organisations is really key to achieving strengthened monitoring.
By mobilising an expert community of academics and civil society experts around the issue of violence against journalists, we hope to build both local and global capacity to conduct effective shadow monitoring of SDG 16.10.1" explains Professor Jackie Harrison.
Centre for Freedom of the Media
News article: CFOM and UNESCO arrange journalism safety research network panel
Free Press Unlimited
See more research towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/joining-baby-club:
How do you design a children’s programme that’s also for adults?
That’s the challenge for new BBC television programme The Baby Club, which aims to develop adults’ skills as much as those for toddlers.
In 2017, CBeebies began developing a show that aimed to help parents and children learn through the programme.
“Parents know their children.
They know what their children are going to be particularly interested in, what they can point them towards.” Jackie Marsh is explaining how a parent’s role in mediating children’s interactions with digital media informed her studies into children’s use of digital technologies.
This led to her consultancy on a show CBeebies described as ‘the first of its kind’.
“For a show like The Baby Club, they’ve got a presenter there and obviously that presenter’s engaging with the children and babies on the programme, but parents know their child and can tailor content to their needs,” explains Jackie.
Baby Club producer Chris Pilkington was developing the concept of The Baby Club when the then-BBC controller, Kay Benbow, asked him to approach Jackie Marsh for her insight.
“Chris’s programme really needed to get it right,” says Jackie.
“All the research shows that the more interaction there is with a parent, the more children learn from the screen.
Especially for the age group Baby Club is aimed at - joint media engagement is absolutely key.”
Baking this focus into a show was new for CBeebies.
But it offered a great opportunity for Jackie to apply research and techniques she was deeply familiar with.
“The reason I agreed to get involved with The Baby Club was the impact it could have for parents who don’t have good models in terms of scaffolding interactions with children...”
In particular, Jackie highlighted the importance of delivering ‘prompts’ - moments designed for the parent to turn to the child and ask questions.
It also meant making sure those questions are open ended.
So, “Tell me about the hat…”, rather than, “Can you see the hat?” And working from schemas - patterns of repeated play such as drawing circles or hiding toys that inform children’s behavioural development - that television is a great platform for encouraging.
The resulting guidance for CBeebies drew, in large part, from Jackie’s substantive study ‘Exploring Play and Creativity’, which analysed 2,000 children and their use of digital technologies, and provided detailed insight into exactly how children are spending their early years engaging with digital platforms.
“We undertook case studies in homes and traced children’s engagement with a range of media devices, looking at their engagement with television and with tablets,” explains Jackie.
The results of that survey helped to shape The Baby Club as a show that aims to develop parents’ understanding of how to interact with children, as well as entertain babies.
This isn’t the first application of Jackie’s research in television and children’s media.
Jackie has conducted considerable research into the relationship between young children and the digital world.
She sat on the BBC Editorial Advisory Board for CBeebies magazines for many years and is now a member of the BBC’s Annual Review Panel for BBC Magazine Brands, which oversees a number of television-related magazines for children and young people.
Jackie has informed the development of CBeebies apps and chaired a government panel that developed a set of criteria for assessing the educational quality of apps for young children.
But ahead of The Baby Club’s debut, it already had one parent cooing; Jackie herself.
“I’ve learnt such a lot working with CBeebies; about how they think very, very carefully about their audience,” Jackie highlights.
“Working with a partner that has such a high set of values around how they engage with their audience is really important.”
Jackie’s work also expands beyond working with the BBC.
She is also the only UK member of the Family and Children’s Advisory Board for Google and she has provided advice and guidance about enhancing the quality of YouTube Kids and YouTube for children and young people.
Exploring Play and Creativity in Pre-Schoolers' Use of Apps: Report for Early Years Practitioners
Educational criteria for early years apps
Giovanna Fletcher and Nigel Clarke announced as presenting duo for new CBeebies series The Baby Club
The University of Sheffield Research gate
Professor Jackie Marsh on Twitter

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/elevating-underrepresented-voices-sheffield:
The restrictions of the pandemic affected our sense of place, space and community, distancing us from others.
Our research has helped overcome this adversity through a digital project that explored the place-based heritage of north Sheffield while elevating the voices of underserved communities.
Beginning in March 2020, a research project, Roots and Futures started to explore four regions to the north of Sheffield city centre; Upperthorpe, Netherthorpe, Neepsend and Kelham Island.
Its aim, to empower locals to discuss the heritage of their local areas and the personal stories that make these places meaningful to them.
At a time when public spaces were closed and social distancing rules made meeting family and friends impossible, the Roots and Futures project was trying to unite the residents of north Sheffield around its diverse local heritages.
Using app-based technology, surveys, interviews, and outdoor events the project devised a way to bring a community together before it drifted apart.
Netherthorpe, Upperthorpe and Neepsend are some of the most diverse neighbourhoods in Sheffield, with a Black, Asian and minority ethic population of 31.9%.
And parts of the community sit within the 10% most deprived areas in the country.
On the other hand, Kelham Island is home to a relatively new community.
The area has strong industrial roots, its factories and workshops having driven Sheffield’s steel production from the early nineteenth century until the 1990s.
More recently, it has become an increasingly popular area to live and work, but the arrival of new apartment blocks and businesses could threaten the development of a shared sense of identity among residents.
Before the Roots and Futures project began, Zest, a centre for community wellbeing in Upperthorpe, had identified a sense of disconnect between local communities and representations of community heritage in Sheffield.
Although people wanted to learn more about their neighbourhoods they also struggled to find reflections of their cultural and migration histories in stories about Sheffield’s past.
The idea for the Roots and Futures project was developed before anyone had ever heard of Covid-19, but the pandemic only made resolving this disconnection more important.
As communities in these neighbourhoods faced increasing levels of isolation and mental health issues due to COVID-19, Roots and Futures was well placed to facilitate access to the health and wellbeing benefits associated with place-based heritage projects for local communities.
The Roots and Futures team was led by Dr Elizabeth Craig-Atkins from the Department of Archaeology at the University of Sheffield, in partnership with Kelham Island Museum, and local organisations; Ecus, Zest and KINCA.
The project set out to engage locals in a collaborative exploration of shared heritage, focusing on generating new knowledge and reflecting on what aspects of the archaeology and history of north Sheffield are important and meaningful to communities today.
How do you bring together a community, without actually physically bringing them together and breaking Covid-19 restrictions?
In answer to this conundrum the team created a web-based app.
Reaching 1,078 individuals, app-users could share their memories and photographs, maintaining a sense of heritage and social cohesion - whilst social distancing!
The Roots and Futures app enabled the project to gather a wide range of unique insights from local residents.
Along with images and descriptions of historic sites still standing, we received descriptions of places long-demolished.
We also heard otherwise undocumented stories that accompanied these places in people’s memories"
Dr Elizabeth Craig-Atkins
Department of Archaeology at the University of Sheffield.
The Your Sheffield map feature allowed its users to explore the landscapes, local trails and archaeological excavations happening in their local area; helping them to explore the local landscapes to which they were newly confined.
Over the course of the project 44 sites were mapped by participants, often commenting on the changes influenced by development and the decline of industry.
This provided individuals with the resources and confidence to safely explore their local area outside, and experience the resultant benefits to their physical and mental health and wellbeing.
Access the Roots and Futures app and share your stories today
The Roots and Futures project took place alongside the rise of the Black Lives Matter movement and demonstrations in the summer of 2020, protesting the institutional and often violent discrimination faced by Black people, globally.
At the heart of this project was the intent to celebrate the variety of experiences within north Sheffield’s culturally and ethnically diverse communities.
Recognising the need for greater representation, alongside the responsibility of researchers to use their skills and resources to support local communities, the project successfully developed opportunities to discuss the heritages of  Black, Asian and minority ethnic populations, which are underrepresented within narratives of the city.
“Museums need to show how our grandparents have contributed, how they were invited over to work and also how the women have contributed as well”
- Project participant
Within UK COVID-19 government guidance, the weekly Roots and Futures tea tent was set up in outdoor spaces across north Sheffield providing an inclusive space for locals to discuss heritage in an informal, voluntary setting.
Holding these events in outdoor spaces already well-used by local communities such as Zest Gardens and the Ponderosa, allowed people the opportunity to explore their past together through informal conversations.
While craft activities gave them the opportunity to document memories of their favourite local places.
Place-based activities, particularly those in green spaces, strengthen feelings of belonging and encourage people to engage with the wide-ranging health and wellbeing benefits of socialising, and spending time in outdoors, as well as encourage greater levels of physical activity.
Supporting members of ethnic minority communities to engage in more of these sorts of activities can, in the long-term, help to reduce UK health inequalities which have become increasingly evident throughout the course of the pandemic.
Locals described that they wanted a more flexible way to learn about their heritage than the traditional permanent exhibitions at local museums, discussing a lack of long-term representation for racialised communities.
Place-based exhibitions were considered to provide a greater platform for both participation and representation of such groups.
“History needs to not only be in a museum but also in our parks around us”
“Museums are okay, but my main issue is the lack of permanent displays about diversity.
For example, I helped work on a project there linked to the Yemini culture.
This display was very good and up for a short while, but they are never permanent, always temporary – and we are not temporary, we are a permanent community in Sheffield and should be represented.”
Roots and Futures used a research methodology called co-production, which works on the principle of everyone working together on an equal basis.
Creating research that involves  participants, community organisations, and academics equally, allowed this study to gather greater, richer context from those who have lived experience of the areas, including the challenges faced within them.
This research amplifies the voice of Black, Asian and minority ethnic populations often excluded from narratives of local history, despite the vast contributions made by them.
By supporting populations to actively participate in research on their own terms and in their own public spaces, this research paves the way for future studies to take a respectful approach to inclusivity.
To learn more about the heritage of North Sheffield, you can explore the online exhibition hosted by Kelham island Museum here or explore more using the links below.
Biological anthropology, medieval and post-medieval funerary rites, archaeologies of the body, childhood and maternity, equitable cultural heritage policy and participation
Written by Annabel Brown, Corporate Communications Marketing Intern.
Roots and Futures project
Roots and Futures App
A summer of Sheffield heritage, designed by you
Roots and Futures Exhibition, Kelham Island Museum

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/how-psychoactive-revolution-shaped-society:
Tea is the nation’s favourite drink, but this wasn’t always the case.
Research from the Department of History explores how intoxicants such as coffee and tobacco were trafficked into Western Europe and how they influenced today’s public spaces.
The 17th century saw the arrival of new mind-altering substances into the European market, affecting local and national economies through what has now been described as a ‘psychoactive revolution’.
Led by the University of Sheffield, a team of European researchers are exploring how intoxicants such as tobacco, caffeine, chocolate, sugar and opium were first introduced into European cities, and how their arrival shaped public spaces.
These are substances that prior to 1600 were unfamiliar to Europeans but by 1850 they were lifestyle staples across the continent.
Intoxicating Spaces is a collaborative project presenting a historical perspective on the influence of new substances on four public settlements between c.1600 and c.1850.
The research explores the ethics of taste and the complicated ways in which we think about addictive substances today.
Led by the University of Sheffield, Intoxicating Spaces is a collaboration between Carl von Ossietzky Universität Oldenburg (Germany), Stockholm University (Sweden), and Utrecht University (Netherlands).
It is funded by Humanities in the European Research Area (HERA) as part of its Joint Research Programme Public Spaces: Culture and Integration in Europe, and the German Federal Ministry for Education and Research (BMBF).
A comparative analysis of how these novel intoxicants were introduced to Western society was carried out using social practice theory.
Social practice theory aims to understand human behaviour by focusing on end actions, such as purchasing tobacco from a shop, rather than the elusive motives as to why an action happened.
This theory enabled researchers to directly compare artefacts and case studies across the four key cities.
“It was important to include a comparative element within the project as there are already so many case studies that focus on the history of drugs in individual cities such as London.
We broadened our perspective across four key countries in western Europe (Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands and the UK) to get a better understanding of the widespread issues of the psychoactive revolution” explains Dr James Brown , Research Associate & Project Manager (UK) of Intoxicating Spaces.
“The 16th and 17th centuries saw the rapid development of the Atlantic economy.
This meant that a lot of the northern European ports such as London, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Hamburg, had increasing importance.
We focused on looking at them together as a unit, both for intellectual coherence and manageability” he adds.
Imports of opium became significant from the 1610s, at least into London; tobacco developed into a mass Atlantic import from the 1620s; coffee began to be consumed in northwestern European coffeehouses from the 1650s, and tea became a mass commodity from the 1710s.
But the introduction of these new substances into the European market came at a price.
Many of these new intoxicants in Europe were made possible by an exploitative system of plantation economies across the Atlantic world.
During the 17th century, the rapidly increasing demand for intoxicants created a growing need for enslaved workers.
Between 1500 and 1865, more than 12 million enslaved people were forcibly transported from Africa.
Almost 2 million died en route.
While Europeans chased their next highs and indulged in these new goods, enslaved workers were faced with harsh conditions and inhumane punishments.
Intoxicating Spaces flags the ethical issues of changing global demands and consumption.
Its research highlights how needs that shape society influence supply chains on a global scale.
When you walk down a typical street in any European city you will find cafes, pharmacies, pubs, bakeries and sweet shops.
The existence of these everyday outlets can be traced back to the arrival and popularity of these intoxicants.
The project defines a public space as an institutional, social environment.
Past examples of public space include alehouses, fairs, inns, parks and shops.
The arrival of new intoxicants in the 17th century influenced how these public spaces were shaped.
“In the 1400s, the main drinking options in, for example, London, were ale or wine.
Our research focuses on the impact of bringing in all of these new mind-altering commodities to society and the important role it plays in terms of lifestyles, the economy, and political regulation of policing today.
Seeing how and where these substances were first introduced, assimilated and naturalised into European diets has been hugely interesting” explains Dr Brown.
Urban spaces are defined as local, regional, intercity and global networks through and within which these substances entered and were circulated.
This includes the role of slavery and colonialism in the supply chain that grew with the increased demand for these substances in Western society.
The project looks at how these intoxicants influenced urban spaces through the emergence of new industries that stemmed from new behaviours.
Partnering with seven schools across the UK, Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands, the team shared their knowledge with A level students across Europe.
The project led a range of events for students that involved creative facilitators such as artists, novelists, cartoonists and even chocolate experts who hosted a historical chocolate making workshop.
Working closely with schools to raise awareness about the history of intoxicants, students developed projects and blog posts inspired by research findings from the Intoxicating Spaces team.
During the pandemic, this work was presented virtually at a conference in collaboration with the National Maritime Museum in Amsterdam and was attended by over eighty staff and students across Europe.
The event also included a performance of ballads about intoxicating substances by a historical music group.
“The students responded well to the research and had a particular interest in the topic of social justice.
Many were familiar with the transatlantic slave trade and showed an understanding of the origins of substances that we take for granted today.
It opened up further conversations about social spaces that are important in their lives and concerns around exploitative commodity chains that are still current today” recalls Dr Brown.
“It’s important to talk about the history of these intoxicants because they remain liven issue for society.
There are many conversations around legal and illegal substances and the role they play in our lives, not least alcohol, and the study of this history helps us to better understand its impact on social behaviours and therefore the ethics of these supply chains” he adds.
Intoxicating Spaces has presented some of its findings in the form of a digital scrapbook .
The 18th century had a vibrant collage and scrapbook culture.
We chose to create our own virtual exhibition in homage to this contemporary practice.
Dr James Brown
Research Associate & Project Manager (UK) of Intoxicating Spaces
Having gathered and analysed over one thousand pieces of evidence, including manuscript diaries, images and objects from museum collections, the team worked with the Digital Humanities Institute at the University of Sheffield to create the online resource, which is designed for both the general public and academic researchers.
All sources and images have been tagged and described to make it easy for users to browse through key artefacts.
The digital scrapbook facilitates knowledge sharing with partners and stakeholders by featuring different sources of artefacts chosen across the four case study cities.
This knowledge exchange encourages the continual evaluation of how past and present commodities are produced, transported and consumed.
Given the potential for exploitative labour relations and conditions in the modern global economy, projects like Intoxicating Spaces highlight the need to understand historical societal trends and to prevent them from repeating.
Early modern history - urbanism and urbanization; the social history of politics; the social and economic history of intoxicants.
Intoxicating Spaces website
New Intoxicants, Slavery, and Empire in the Seventeenth- and Eighteenth-Century…
Details of the HERA programme of projects
Department of History
Digital Humanities Institute
How the bubonic plague changed drinking habits

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/fact-or-fiction-how-world-misinformation-can-be-challenged-through-philosophy:
In a world of misinformation and fake news it can be challenging to discern fact from fiction.
But by introducing philosophical education into the curriculum from a young age, children could be armed with the tools to do just that.
Between 2014 and 2016, Professor Angie Hobbs joined the fight to save a critical part of the education system.
An A Level, that Angie felt was fundamental to the mental agility and resilience of young people, was being slashed from the curriculum.
It was the A-level in Philosophy.
But that fight was a successful one.
Today, the A Level is firmly rooted into the national curriculum – and she and her colleague, Dr Josh Forstenzer, have shown exactly why it should be.
Philosophy as a subject has been around in the West since the ancient Greeks, in the 6th century BC.
Since then philosophers have regularly played a societal role as educators, critics and imaginative visionaries.
They’ve brought us some of the most fundamental questions about how we should live, and in turn, some of the most striking answers.
The subject teaches – amongst many other things – critical thinking skills.
By studying it, children learn how to think well and ask good questions, how to form and analyse arguments and how to interpret data and concepts before forming their own considered opinions.
In a time where misinformation is a growing global phenomenon, these skills are vital to navigate the world we live in.
Despite this, from primary to university level education, the resources offered by philosophy have been greatly under-used in the British (and particularly the English) education system.
Either by accident or by design, social media and the internet have created the ideal conditions for ‘fake news’, ‘alternative facts’ and an unhealthy stew of lies that can permeate through the fabric of society.
“The misinformation and lies generated by the combination of the internet, social media and public leaders have made it very difficult for democracies to function in a healthy way.
It’s allowed deeply damaging conspiracy theories to infect societies creating false enemies and deepening divisions,” says Angie.
Genuine democratic choices can only be based on accurate information and well-understood reasons.
Professor Angie Hobbs
In a study published by the Pew Research Centre , when presented with five factual statements and five opinion statements, only 20 per cent of those over 50 years of age correctly categorized all statements.
This is compared to 32 per cent of those 18-49.
This shows the fallibility of people of all ages towards believing fake news and cements the need to introduce philosophy early into schools to prevent future generations having the same problem.
Angie is part of a team of two researchers from the Department of Philosophy at Sheffield who are making a powerful case for philosophy to be taught to young people.
The other half of that team is Josh.
Despite both being well versed in philosophy, Angie and Josh’s backgrounds cover different philosophical traditions.
For Josh, his interest in the promise of philosophical education stems from his work in American pragmatism and democratic theory.
“For me, democracy is more than a set of institutions, it’s a culture and way of life that is expressed and embodied in the way actual citizens relate to one another.
Democracy is at its best when people engage with one another to solve problems they have in common and draw on the best available resources both intellectually and morally to address them.
Philosophical education and conversation can help with this,” says Josh.
Pressing democratic questions for Josh include what makes a good citizen, what virtues should education aim to foster and how we can foster the conditions needed for open dialogue across lines of enduring difference.
By contrast, Angie’s work is rooted much earlier in the work of Ancient Greek philosophers such as Socrates, Plato and Aristotle, and their explorations of human nature and how best to live a good life.
Despite Angie’s and Josh’s different areas of expertise, their work in philosophy can be united under a common idea – education for the sake of flourishing.
“When we talk about flourishing in a philosophical sense we’re talking about living a full and rich life, in which our potential – intellectual, creative, emotional and physical – is fulfilled,” explains Angie.
This can apply to both the individual and to society as a whole.
But the really important question here is how the two connect – in what kind of society can individuals flourish and what do individuals need to do to help their communities thrive?
What Josh’s work on democratic theory and Angie’s work on Greek philosophers have in common is that, for both, philosophy is not just something that we do with our mind, it affects our whole way of living.
“In both Angie’s Ancient Greek context and my approach to philosophy known as the pragmatist tradition, we find a commitment to the idea that individual and collective flourishing are mutually interdependent and that a rich philosophical education can help both,” explains Josh.
By applying the philosophical ideas from both contexts to education, Angie and Josh are exploring how this prepares children and young people for flourishing lives as democratic citizens in a world of misinformation and oversimplification.
This preparation doesn’t only involve the development of critical thinking skills, it also fosters key social virtues.
“On-going studies are showing that greater philosophy provision leads to positive traits such as appropriate intellectual confidence, open-mindedness, tolerance and a willingness to listen to the views of others,” says Angie.
In one study, conducted in part by Josh, as many as 69 per cent of student participants reported an increase in their confidence in explaining their ideas to others and more than half reported an increase in their tendency to try to understand other people’s perspectives.
By building strongly on their research, Josh and Angie have worked hard to improve the provision of philosophy education both inside and outside the classroom.
They’ve helped to redevelop the A Level syllabus, organised philosophical conferences with young people, supported the development of the philosophy certificate for GCSE-level pupils, and continue to create online resources for staff and students.
They even worked on Channel 4’s Child Genius and it doesn’t stop there.
Angie is a Patron of The Philosop hy Foundation , which has provided philosophy classes to more than 33,000 children since 2014 leading to improvements in both critical thinking and metacognition skills and she is a regular guest speaker in podcasts, radio and TV shows (see links below).
Josh is also one of the founding members of Think Together Sheffield , an organisation dedicated to bolstering philosophical activities in Sheffield and its surrounding region.
By demonstrating the value of philosophical inquiry and reflection in education, Angie’s and Josh’s work advocates for a richer provision of philosophy both inside and outside of the curriculum.
But philosophy provisions in schools can’t be increased without both people to teach it and a political and civic climate that welcomes it.
Therefore, their work extends to drawing on philosophy to analyse and recommend changes to education policy more generally.
“The full significance of flourishing in education is found in thinking about education policy as well as curriculum design and teaching practices,” says Josh.
As the Vice-Chancellor’s Fellow for the Public Benefit of Higher Education, Josh engaged with student leaders, the National Union of Students, Parliamentarians and Higher Education sector bodies to argue that the Teaching Excellence Framework – supposedly designed to recognise and encourage excellent teaching in universities and colleges – was flawed.
It fails to recognise the value of learning for its own sake and of learning for the sake of improving society.
Instead it prefers to celebrate learning purely for the sake of obtaining employment and securing future personal financial reward.
There is nothing wrong with education that helps people obtain good employment opportunities, but there is something wrong with thinking that this is the only or the highest purpose of education.
Developing curiosity, discernment, and social responsibility are also fundamentally important parts of a good education."
Dr Joshua Forstenzer
There’s no denying the prevalence of misinformation, ‘alternative facts’ and ‘fake news’, so it’s fundamental that those growing up and living in the midst of this are equipped with the skills and attributes required to cut through the confusion.
Philosophical ideas and skills are the cornerstones of critical thinking and problem-solving capabilities.
Without them society wouldn’t function.
Angie’s involvement in saving the philosophy A Level, and her and Josh’s theoretical and practical work has done a lot to unlock the resources of philosophy in all three tiers of education.
In doing so they are ensuring people have the cognitive and emotional skills they need to flourish.
A society that flourishes leads to a future of good thinkers, responsible leaders and people trying to protect and improve the common good, which are all crucial foundations for a secure and healthy democracy.
Angie's research interests include ancient Greek philosophy and ethics (ancient and modern), notably the ethics of flourishing and virtue; heroism, courage and fame; love and desire; friendship.
Interests are in political and social philosophy, American Pragmatism, and philosophy of education.
Current project: participatory democracy, youth politics and civic education in higher education
Philosophy and the good life
What is a good life?
(video)
A Democratic Ideal for Troubled Times: John Dewey,  Civic Action, and Peaceful Conflict Resolution
Teaching critical thinking and metacognitive skills through philosophical enquiry.
A practitioner's report on experiments in the classroom.
Virtues in the Classroom - Professor Angie Hobbs: ‘Virtues, Flourishing and Education in an Age of Uncertainty’
What philosophy can tell Davos about educating for a better future
The Philosophy Foundation
Angie Hobbs, Professor of the public understanding of Philosophy
@drangiehobbs
@JoshForstenzer

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/tackling-hunger-and-food-insecurity-uk:
We all have a right to food, yet household food insecurity persists in the UK.
How can organisations, politicians and the public work together to find a solution?
Pioneering research from the Sheffield Political Economy Research Institute into hunger and food insecurity is transforming the way in which we understand the UK’s increasing rates of food insecurity and the food charity response.
Dr Hannah Lambie-Mumford has been undertaking  research on household food insecurity, the rise of food aid and the right to food in the UK and Europe.
Support from food charities has become the prevailing response to modern food insecurity, after changes to welfare provision and austerity policies  increased the need for support, placing increased pressure on charities.
However, from a human rights perspective charitable responses are neither sustainable nor acceptable ways of addressing hunger.”
Dr Hannah Lambie-Mumford
Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Sheffield
In order to address these challenges, Hannah’s research has highlighted the need for a wider range of actors to work together to address food insecurity.
The research findings have since been used as the basis for a number of NGO and public-led campaigns against food insecurity.
The pivotal ‘End Hunger UK’ campaign launched in 2016, came to fruition through a collaboration between Church Action on Poverty (CAP), Oxfam and Save the Children, parliamentarians and the Feeding Britain campaign group.
The campaign has been far reaching in its impact: since its launch, more than 18,000 individuals and 140 groups have signed petitions, written to their MPs and attended conferences and events in order to combat food insecurity.
The Church Action on Poverty ‘Right to Food Sunday’ in February 2016 included  worship and reflection materials that CAP and Hannah put together on the right to food.
These were used in churches across the country, taking the message about the right to food to an audience of 42,000 people.
“NGOs have been front and centre of this issue for the last decade, the calls they have made for justice, fairness and upstream solutions to poverty have shifted the nature of the national conversation over access to food in the UK.” says Hannah
Although food insecurity remains a pervasive issue in the UK, Hannah’s research has produced evidence for the Government to address the issue.
Working with CAP led to the production of the ‘Step up to the Plate’ report which was discussed at a parliamentary roundtable hosted by Emma Lewell Buck MP the then Shadow Minister for Education, Children and Families in 2018.
The report recommended the Government  adopt a household food insecurity measure, which would facilitate a better understanding of the scale of the UK’s food insecurity, and was cited in  Emma Lewell Buck MP’s  Food Insecurity Bill recommending such a measurement.
This was a key outcome for  the ‘End Hunger UK’ campaign.
During the Covid-19 pandemic the number of people facing food insecurity in the UK soared.
Hannah and her team set out to map and monitor responses to risks of household food insecurity during the pandemic.
The project was funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) through the UKRI Ideas to Address COVID-19 grant call and ran from July 2020 to January 2022.
The research team is led by Hannah and Dr Rachel Loopstra (King’s College London) alongside colleagues from Sustain: the alliance for better food and farming and Church Action on Poverty.
The research mapped and monitored responses from national policy through to local community level.
Integral to the project was a participatory policy panel facilitated in coordination with Church Action on Poverty.
The panel shared their experience of accessing food during the pandemic for both themselves and for their communities.
Having shared their experiences and ideas, the panel developed five overarching lessons on how policy-makers, at all levels, could deliver better for those most at risk, in crises and at all times.
“Through this project we have worked directly with people who have lived experience of food access issues, as well as policy makers and practitioners, to generate research that can inform evidence-based policy solutions.” explains Hannah.
The research highlighted the unprecedented nature of the response to food access issues during the pandemic.
At a national level, responses varied across the different nations of the UK, but emergency food aid provision, emergency finance schemes, school food replacements and a grocery box scheme for people who were shielding were some of the biggest interventions covered in the research.
Local case studies revealed that partnership working and working together was a key enabler of responses.
Voluntary food aid was a key feature of local responses across areas and was provided by both new and existing initiatives.
The research also found that rural and urban areas faced distinct food access challenges during the pandemic.
The take away lessons for policy makers from the participatory policy panel were that (1) decision makers should hear from those that know, (2) food security is a fundamental human right, (3) we should rethink social security  so it truly offers sufficient support, at all times, (4) Crisis responses must be comprehensive, without compromising on dignity and choice (5) Individual households, communities, businesses and the state each have different strengths and roles, in a crisis and longer-term.
More information about the research into food vulnerability during Covid-19
SPERI: Sheffield Political Economy Research Institute
Department of Politics and International Relations

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/engineering/research/case-studies/truth-and-trust-combating-disinformation-and-abuse-social-media:
Sheffield’s big data analytics has probed the veracity, sentiment and sharing patterns of social media posts and exposed the ways in which social media can be used and abused to shape opinions about significant political and societal events.
Professor Kalina Bontcheva, from the Department of Computer Science in the Faculty of Engineering at Sheffield, and her team used natural language processing methods to identify entities, relations and events in sources such as news articles to a much higher level of accuracy than previously managed.
In the 2000s and 2010s, she adapted and extended these information extraction methods specifically to social media.
For example, showing how social media hashtags, @mentions, likes and location data opened up a wide range of possible analytics.
The team applied the same approach in work on sentiment analysis and rumour and veracity measurement that coincided with the rise of fake news, disinformation and online abuse.
The ability to analyse large volumes of social media streams for sentiment and subject in real time has underpinned national and international policy and informed public debate.
It has exposed the ways in which social media can be abused to shape opinions about significant political events, such as elections or the Brexit referendum.
Sheffield’s methods have also been used to identify and highlight misinformation in public discourse on social media.
For example, in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic work with UNESCO and First Draft - an influential international network of journalists, news organsations and social media platforms, who promote integrity in the world’s information system.
Professor Bontcheva has contributed to parliamentary inquiries, virtual expert roundtable discussions, public fora and has developed a close collaborative relationship with staff at the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, who stated: “Sheffield University's research in this area, and particularly their abuse work spanning across the 2015, 2017 and 2019 elections has been extremely valuable and has contributed towards our policy development.”
The research has also fuelled extensive media coverage on and offline, both nationally and internationally, on the misuse of social media, which has raised public awareness of its risks.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/sex-lives-over-50s-ending-stigma:
The sex lives of the over 50s have long been ignored.
Sheffield’s new cafes are bringing the conversation back to the table.
When you reach a certain age, there’s a perception of how your life goes.
Aged 18?
You’ll be out drinking every night.
And if you’re older than 50, your evenings consist of Emmerdale, bedtime reading from 8pm and lights out soon after.
At least that’s what we might perceive to be true, following preconceived notions generated in decades past.
But according to statistics from Terrence Higgins Trust , the heat generated under the covers by millions of over 50s comes from more than just a hot water bottle.
Dr Sharron Hinchliff of the University of Sheffield has been delving into the intimate lives of older adults for almost two decades.
And through her research, it’s clear that while millennials are doing the Netflix, it’s older adults who are doing the chill.
It might sound like great news for older adults, but Sharron’s research has shown it’s not all smiles.
With older age comes health problems, and there’s one rather important group that are showing a queasiness to their bedroom antics.
The biggest group in need of education about sex lives aren’t the over 50s; it’s health practitioners.
“I interviewed a GP who said he would not ask the question of a sexual issue in an older patient but they would in a younger patient.” Sharron explains.
“They knew the sexual issue could be caused by a medication that they had given to them.
So for example, someone in their 30s or 40s, if they’re prescribed an antidepressant that can cause orgasm problems, they’d mention it to that patient but when you get to your 60s, 70s, they said they probably wouldn’t.
And that’s really unfair.”
One of the major reasons that the conversations don’t happen is the stigma.
It’s one of the difficulties that can block older adults from enjoying a healthy sex life, as an overwhelming proportion are being failed by a healthcare system simply not trained to provide the right support.
“I’ve talked to many older adults who have not received help, and have just thought ‘that’s it’ and given up.
There’s an assumption that those in their 70s and 80s are not going to be sexually active, or that if they are they won’t want to talk about it because it’s private.
Indeed, many older adults grew-up during a time when sex was not to be discussed.
Some older women I’ve spoken to didn’t know about menstrual cycles and when they had their first period, they were frightened and thought they were dying.
Many older adults don’t want to give up their sexual lives but they don’t know there are things that can help.”
This is where Sharron’s research comes in.
It’s the first in the UK to identify sex and intimacy as two key components of quality of life in older adults.
It’s been used by the World Health Organisation — she’s just returned from the Women Deliver conference in Vancouver, delivering their first ever talk on sexual health and older women.
But how does that research translate into educating the wider world?
Helping to bring Sharron’s work to life is Pete McKee, an artist from Sheffield.
His unmistakable designs are ingrained into the city’s culture, making him the first port of call as Sharron’s Age of Love plans began to take shape.“I didn’t know what I wanted the project to look like, but inspired by The Snog (painted on the side of Fagan’s pub), I approached Pete” Sharron explains.
“He was interested, so we met a few times and I explained my research findings and the discrimination that older adults face in this area.
And he decided to take it up.
I was delighted.
Pete is the perfect creative partner for my research - his approach to everyday life, the humour, the imagery, and the characters.”
Pete’s work is centred around reality, and this project saw him focus on two of his earlier characters, Frank and Joy.
A Yorkshire couple later on in life, they swiftly became the face (and bodies) of Sharron’s work.
Already adorning walls across Pete’s home city, the decision to use the pair transformed a serious subject into one that was more approachable to the wider world.
Sharron and Pete’s collaboration was made public in 2018 as part of the Festival of the Mind, a series of Sheffield talks and workshops between University of Sheffield academics and the city’s creative and digital industries.
Hundreds of visitors from Sheffield and beyond took in the eye catching designs and the messages behind them.
And a large proportion of those visitors had plenty in common with Frank and Joy.
“People were laughing, gasping, and smiling during the exhibition.
They wanted to buy art for their walls based on this.
We knew that the exhibition had done what we wanted it to - to start a conversation about a topic that tends to be taboo and unspoken.
In that way it’s helped to raise awareness of the issue” said Sharron.
To take this further, and continue the conversation, the exhibition is returning with a difference.
This June, Sharron launches the Age of Love cafes in Sheffield.
“They’re based on the highly popular Death Cafes” Sharron begins, referring to cafes that allow those who want to talk about death and dying to converse with each other on an informal basis over tea and cake.
It’s a concept that has also reached television screens, with Channel 4 adapting the idea for a dementia cafe programme .
“So many people talk about not speaking to their partner about intimacy and relationships, and people might not even talk to friends.
If they can come and talk to strangers, it can work in a supportive way and improve their sense of wellbeing.”
The cafes are informal places where visitors can chat openly and listen to those with similar experiences.
But just like Fight Club, as Sharron references, there are ground rules.
Visitors are under agreement that whatever is discussed in the cafe stays in the cafe and that outside of it, there’s full anonymity.
Hosted within Sheffield’s Millennium Gallery, the artwork is back on show for anyone to view but visitors to the cafe will use the art as a starting point for their conversations.
“Over the years I’ve interviewed hundreds of people” begins Sharron, “and many have said they feel better just from talking to me.
I’m probably the first and possibly last person for them to open up to, but it’s that sense of comfort and knowing you’re not the only one.”
And the work is not just for the over 50s.
Lots of younger adults are interested.
Sharron’s research - along with McKee’s flair - has got younger people talking about their own later years, as well as wondering about just what the over 50s get up to in their spare time.
The most recent output from Sharron's programme of work is the Sexual Rights Charter for Older Adults, which has been designed to help tackle the discrimination people can face regarding sexuality and relationships described above.
Designed by Dr Sharron Hinchliff , and developed with Dr Stephanie Ejegi-Memeh from The University of Sheffield and Gilli Cliff from Age-friendly Sheffield, the Charter was created as a result of extensive consultation with the public, professionals, and organisations in Sheffield.
It is supported by a suite of materials including guidance notes, FAQs and a problem statement.
The Sexual Rights Charter will help service providers and practitioners to develop inclusive and non-discriminatory practices and policies.
We hope the Charter will make a real difference to the lives of everyone as they age by tackling prejudice and respecting sexual agency and diversity.
Dr Sharron Hinchliff
Reader in Psychology and Health at the Division of Nursing and Midwifery and Director of Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (School of Allied Health Professions, Nursing and Midwifery) at the University of Sheffield

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/trapped-truth-behind-narco-trafficking-mexico:
Few would choose to spend their day in the London Immigration Tribunal Chambers, but for those who have to, it’s often a matter of life and death.
This was the case for Peter.
Except for him, it's a matter of the lives of Mexican nationals he helps to save.
“The tribunal chambers are a busy place, full of people from all over the world waiting to be processed by the courts and hoping to gain asylum.
Many of whom are dealing with deeply traumatic experiences,” says Dr Peter Watt, an academic at the University of Sheffield’s School of Languages and Cultures.
Peter was in the tribunal chambers because he was acting as an expert witness.
He was supporting the case of a Mexican national, Maria*, fleeing persecution by her partner, who’d become involved in a powerful drug cartel.
This case is just one of several others and is typical of the work and support that Peter provides.
An expert witness can be anyone with knowledge or experience in a particular field that goes beyond that of the average person.
Having spent nearly 20 years studying Mexico’s contemporary history and visiting the country to understand the culture, Peter certainly fits this description.
Over the years, he’s built up a vast and detailed knowledge of the current state of Mexico and the impacts of narco-trafficking here.
This insight, coupled with a desire to help those victimised by drug cartels, makes him one of the few people able to be an expert witness in this particular area.
“It’s one area in which the work I’ve already done could contribute to having a positive impact on someone’s life, it seemed to me that that was the right thing to do,” Peter says.
“The first thing you notice is that Mexico is an unequal country,” says Peter.
Mexico, whilst culturally rich in many ways, from its stunning geography and landscapes to its diverse tapestry of cultures and history, is also rife with poverty.
Ultimately, this is a consequence of the political, economic and cultural upheaval which has taken place in recent decades.
In the 1970s, driven by a rising demand in Europe and increased drug use as part of US counter-culture, Mexico became the principal supplier of two out of three of the best selling narcotics in the world – opium and marajuana.
Over this same period, economic changes pushed more people into poverty causing many Mexicans to abandon their land in search of more prosperous jobs in the city and over the US border.
This desperation left the farmers vulnerable at a time of political shift as a new party moved into power.
Until 2000, the government had controlled the drug trade, however, partly due to new economic policies and an increasingly desperate workforce, drug-trafficking organisations were able to exploit instability and poverty and gain control at government level.
In such an unequal country, many become trapped by narco-trafficking.
This forces people to flee to other countries, like the UK, where they live undocumented or attempt to claim asylum –much like Maria.
But it’s also how people like Peter come to spend their afternoon in the Tribunal Chambers helping them to gain refuge.
Maria and her partner had been childhood sweethearts, but when he was recruited by a cartel everything changed.
Her partner became drawn into the perceived perks of life in the cartel, including access to narcotics, weapons and power.
Maria was repeatedly assaulted, both physically and emotionally, by her partner.
The tipping point was the disappearance of her friend, whose partner was also in the cartel; Maria realised this could be her if something didn’t change.
She had no choice but to escape.
Maria had tried to escape twice before, but collusion between the authorities and the cartels meant that wherever in the country she went to her partner and the cartel would be able to find her.
She tried to escape twice, but – because she was still in Mexico – she was sent back to him.
In order to survive, the next time had to be different.
Maria fled to the UK under the guise of going on holiday, but her scheduled return flight had an empty seat.
She remained in the UK undocumented until her new partner encouraged her to claim asylum, assuring her that once she did she’d be able to live here safely.
But it didn’t quite work out that way.
As soon as she declared herself as an asylum seeker she was imprisoned in a detention centre.
“This is a typical case but it’s not the worst,” says Peter.
Occurrences like this are shocking to many of us but perhaps more shocking is that it’s normal for Mexican nationals.
Mexico is experiencing a heightened wave of assault against women, with the worst global records for domestic violence.
Two thirds of female homicides take place in the home and, more often than not, the perpetrator is the current or ex-partner.
Maria’s fears about what she might be faced with should she return to Mexico were well-founded.
Peter took on the challenge of being an expert witness in Maria’s case for asylum after being approached by the Rights in Exile Programme , an organisation to promote the legal protection of refugees globally.
They approached him because of his academic research on the history of narco trafficking in Mexico and because of his reputation in the Mexican human rights community.
There are few academics willing to volunteer their time to act as an expert witness.
As a result, Peter is often called upon to provide expert witness statements on behalf of people from Mexico and Central America seeking asylum in the US and the UK.
Acting as an expert witness means looking at all the information available and assessing the validity of the claim being made and advising on whether the claims made by those seeking asylum are credible.
But, as Peter tells us, “Every single person in [the Immigration Tribunal Chambers] has a story and deserves asylum, because why would you make that up.” But the UK asylum system is challenging.
To claim asylum refugees have to fit into one of the five categories of persecution: race; religion; nationality; political opinion or gender, gender identity and sexual orientation.
With such strict guidelines, it’s no wonder that between September 2017-2018, only 38% of asylum appeals were accepted.
In Maria’s case, she wasn’t being targeted by her partner or the cartel for any of these categories specifically, but being a woman in Mexico did increase the risk to her life.
“Women are particularly vulnerable, they’re often detained illegally and subject to torture and sexual violence,” explains Peter.
Initially, Peter wrote a report on behalf of Maria’s case that was based on his extensive knowledge and experiences of Mexico.
The report detailed the failings of the police and justice system to prosecute violent criminals and organised crime gangs, because authorities themselves are corrupt.
Peter’s report also described the extent to which women are particularly vulnerable in this environment.
“They take apart everything you’ve said as a witness and try and find holes in it.
It’s stressful, because what you’ve written could have an effect on this person's life,” says Peter.
Maria’s first appeal was rejected, with the judge declaring a lack of evidence that Maria would be persecuted should she return to Mexico.
He claimed that she could move elsewhere in the country and be safe.
But Maria had already tried this – twice – and both times she had been found by the cartel and taken back to her partner.
It’s no surprise that Maria’s case was originally thrown out as women face major difficulties  when seeking asylum, which only makes Peter’s job harder.
According to the Refugee Council there is a problem with women’s claims for asylum: “the asylum system can feel very hostile and it’s difficult for women to give full details of the violence they’ve experienced.” This puts a lot of strain on testimonies from expert witnesses and many claims are rejected.
Maria and Peter were able to challenge the judge’s decision and get an appeal, but again the claim was rejected.
An uninformed statement from the Home Office formed the basis of this decision.
It was an explanation that cherry-picked statements from a US report claiming human rights in Mexico had improved.
But they chose not to disclose the lines that clearly expressed that “the human rights for women in Mexico had deteriorated significantly”, says Peter.
Peter presented this information, alongside his expert testimony as the only witness and his dedication to Maria’s human rights were rewarded.
The judge referred to Peter’s testimony repeatedly while granting Maria asylum in the UK.
Had Peter not provided testimony in the first instance and then continued to be persistent in this case, Maria would have been sent back to a place where her existence was at risk.
Peter’s commitment to the human rights of others was fundamental to Maria’s case, and the cases of other Mexican nationals he’s supported.
But the cornerstone of it all was his vast knowledge.
Without that, Maria would likely have been sent back to a country where the rights for women were rapidly decreasing and the situation is becoming ever more precarious.
In Peter’s eyes, “as researchers we have the opportunity to put our knowledge and experience to good use and try and improve the lives of others.
If we can make even a small difference in making the world less unjust then, surely, it’s the responsibility of researchers to do so.”
*Name changed.
Find out more in Peter's book: Drug War Mexico
The conversation
From Mexico: Peter Watt

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/features/japanese-culture:
Researchers at the University of Sheffield are challenging Japanese stereotypes, changing the way we think about Japanese culture and our own.
Japanese culture can be bold, bright and is often caricatured.
In the UK we incorrectly reduce it to an exotic land of robots and sumo wrestling.
However, study Japanese culture in more detail and you see that these typical stereotypes are about as true as suggesting that everyone in England drinks tea, eats biscuits and speaks like the Queen.
In reality Japan, like any other nation, is far more diverse and complex than our narrow stereotypes describe it.
And Professor Kate Taylor-Jones , Dr Jennifer Coates and Dr Mark Pendleton are working hard to change our perceptions and put these damaging stereotypes right.
Kate, Mark and Jennifer are all researchers of Japanese Culture at the University of Sheffield’s School of East Asian Studies (SEAS) .
They’ve spent their respective careers developing a deep understanding of Japanese culture in everything from film and media studies to gender, sexuality and the history of 20th Century Japan.
Understanding an entirely different culture is a challenge, especially when you’re not born into it.
But it’s fundamental to correcting potentially damaging stereotypes.
We all stereotype.
It can be advantageous, enabling us to make quick judgements and act rapidly in new situations - like behaving appropriately when meeting somebody new.
But stereotypes are also the most reductive form of a person or culture and can make us ignorant to the similarities and differences between individuals and ourselves.
There’s lots of stereotypes about Japan, and the British media and Hollywood don’t do much to help these.
There’s a focus on Japan as this kind of den of sexual perversion which isn’t true.
Or there’s really obvious stereotypes like everyone in Japan is really polite.
But like any other nation it’s got a complicated history, its own culture and it’s our job to try and understand that a little bit more.
Professor Kate Taylor-Jones
Professor of East Asian Studies, the University of Sheffield.
Changing perceptions and increasing knowledge of East Asian culture in the UK has become a top priority for Kate and Mark.
They’ve channelled this into events like Japan Now North - a week of activities celebrating the art, culture, literature and film of Japan.
Running for three years, before being disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic, Japan Now North, has included photographers like Mika Ninagawa, film directors like Hikaru Toda and writers like Miri Yu.
‘Japan is more complex and diverse than most people think and by learning more about another culture we can learn more about who we are as humans,’ says Mark.
In 2019 for example, a series of female artists were invited to Sheffield whose respective work addresses the varied and complex position gender plays in Japanese society.
The team intends to develop audiences for East Asian culture including film, arts and literature and also demonstrate  to art spaces, like museums and galleries, that there is an appetite for this cultural experience beyond London.
‘It's about educating people and growing awareness of Asia in a kind of non-stereotypical way, challenging stereotypes and informing the general public,’ says Kate.
In 2019, the event was themed around diversity and showed artists, novelists and manga translators of both genders.
‘With an event like this you get a sense that all people and cultures are different, but also, not so different.
There are aspects that unite us, like family connections or sexuality, and you begin to see these similarities with other cultures,’ explains Mark.
Exposure to these similarities and differences is an important part of breaking down potentially damaging stereotypes.
As well as disrupting stereotypes, Japan Now North informs new views on Japanese society and its future.
We often think of Japan as a leader in the field of technology, from robotics to futuristic city design.
But like any nation, they face challenges, including an ageing population and overcrowding.
The first Japan Now North 2020 event was  a screening of Ten Years Japan, an anthology film made up of five short films set in an imagined Japan ten years from now.
Guest speaker Chie Hayakawa directed the opening short, Plan 75, which depicts a country grappling with its rapidly ageing population.
‘The ‘Future’ theme takes on these problems but it also confronts how we see Japan.
It might help us see the parallels we, in the UK, have with Japan and how we might also tackle social problems.
It’s about learning from another culture for our own improvement,’ says Jennifer Coates.
In March 2022, Mark worked with Manchester's Submerge festival to host a series of performances, exhibitions and screenings featuring the acclaimed international artist Saeborg, who recently won the Tokyo Contemporary Art Award.
Saeborg's work explores themes of gender, sexuality and reproduction and how humans and animals co-exist in relationships of care and exploitation.
Mark also screened the 2019 documentary Queer Japan , which Saeborg features in, to large audiences in Manchester and Sheffield, followed by a conversation with Saeborg and other experts, including Sheffield's Dr Nozomi Uematsu.
'Saeborg is one of the most exciting artists working in Japan at the moment.
Her work challenges us to think about how we relate to our bodies and identities, as well as the people and environments around us.
It was really great to see audiences embracing that challenge and engaging with the artwork and the documentary film in such numbers.' said Mark.
So what’s it like to have your mind changed by Japan Now North’s programme?
Audiences have described leaving with a new found knowledge and a deeper understanding of another culture.
Many have commented on how artwork, documentaries and literature they’ve been exposed to have challenged their perceptions of Japanese culture.
Events like Japan Now North are filling a gap.
Changing perceptions is important for our cultural understanding and relationships with others.
British people would be upset if the only thing people in other countries knew about them was that they drank tea and eat biscuits, and it’s no different for Japan or any other nation in the world.
Mark tells us that, ‘doing this work keeps us open to the world and allows us to learn more about others, giving us a sense that all people are different but when you boil it down to human nature, we’re actually not so different after all.’
What’s next for the team?
As the world begins to open up again following the pandemic, Kate and Mark hope to hold more events that showcase the multifaceted nature of Japanese culture, and facilitate more opportunities for cultural exchange, understanding and learning.
If you want to experience some Japanese art for yourself, you can see Mark presenting and discussing Saeborg's art as part of the 25th anniversary celebrations for Fierce Festival in Birmingham .
And you can follow Japan Now North on twitter for any upcoming events and screenings.
By Alicia Shephard, Research Marketing and Content Coordinator
Dr Mark Pendleton
Dr Jennifer Coates
Research publications
Divine Work: The Greater East Asian Film Sphere and the legacy of pan-Asian Visual Culture
Thinking from the Yamanote: Space, Place and Mobility in Tokyo's Past and Present
Funders
Arts Council England
Japan Foundation
Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation
Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/research/university-sheffield-research-sparks-new-consultancy-make-research-more-accessible-arts-and-cultural:
Research by the University of Sheffield’s Performer and Audience Research Centre (SPARC), has been the catalyst for a new consultancy that is helping arts, heritage and performance organisations nurture and grow their audiences in the wake of the pandemic.
During the Covid-19 pandemic SPARC collaborated on an Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) funded cross-faculty project, led by Professor Vanessa Toulmin , which found that smaller, newer and freelance artists and venues were most vulnerable to the effects of the pandemic.
When it became apparent the social restrictions introduced during lockdown would last a lot longer than initially intended, the project called for sustained funding for those affected, leveraging funds from Sheffield City Council and evaluating the effects of the Cultural Recovery Funds.
Working to identify ways in which they could make their research expertise more widely available for the sector during this turbulent time, academics from the centre set up the SPARC Consultancy to help the sector create new strategies for audience engagement, learning and participation and increased reach.
The aim for the consultancy is to help arts and cultural organisations plan their activities in order to bounce back from the difficulties of recent years and grow audiences to become more sustainable in the long-term.
SPARC Consultancy is led by Professor of Music Education at the University of Sheffield and member of the Government’s Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) College of Experts, Stephanie Pitts, who has a track record of over fifteen years working with arts venues and organisations.
SPARC Consultancy is now working with a variety of arts, heritage and performance organisations to help them explore what audiences and participants are looking for and how to engage with visitors in a post-Covid-19 world.
The value of the arts has become much more prominent in recent years, with many people experiencing the health and wellbeing benefits of engaging with the arts, music and heritage events during the pandemic.
“For audiences and participants, arts events and activities are shown to boost social connectedness and sense of purpose, and contribute greatly to our sense of wellbeing mentally and physically.
That's why it's so important for our cultural sector to thrive and not just struggle to survive.”
Prof Stephanie Pitts
Professor of Music Education
The consultancy is working with a variety of organisations around the country to help them plan their activities in order to bounce back from the difficulties of recent years and grow audiences to become more sustainable in the long-term.
This includes Concerteenies, a Sheffield-based group which organises concerts designed to engage babies, toddlers and their grown ups in live music of all kinds.
The research evaluation and report produced by SPARC for the group provided tailored advice on how to navigate the local amateur music sector and help Concerteenies focus its audience engagement.
Polly Ives from Concerteenies, said: “The project addressed key questions our funders, performers and producers wanted to know about the concerts’ reach live and online, the experience of those involved; from children and our musicians to parents, carers and nursery practitioners.
It also provided insight on what effect the programme had on the language skills, confidence, engagement and its long term impact through follow up activities inspired by attending and participating in its ‘Musical Stories’ concert series.”
The Covid-19 pandemic hit amateur music groups particularly hard, with singing groups taking the brunt of social restrictions designed to protect the nation from the rapidly spreading virus.
Previous research done by SPARC in the ‘ Making Music, Making Communities ’ report, investigated connections between leisure-time musical groups and their local communities, showing groups of all sizes, genres and varieties play a strong role in the lives of their members, their audiences, and potentially their wider communities.
Peterborough Sings!
is a music education charity which supports four choirs, Peterborough Male Voice Choir, Peterborough Voices, Peterborough Community Chorus and Peterborough Youth Choir, as well as an extensive outreach programme providing free singing tuition to children and young people across the city and promoting the benefits of singing across the local community.
The charity is working with SPARC on an Arts Council England-funded survey of amateur men’s and women’s choirs which will be a definitive study of equal voices choirs in the UK and which will allow them to identify ambitions for the future development of amateur choirs in the UK.
Director William Prideaux, said: “This is an ambitious and exciting project which will provide a better understanding of the how, why and when of amateur choirs nationally and what makes them tick!
It will allow us to explore the challenges of sustaining and developing choir membership and reaching and engaging with underrepresented groups of potential singers which more fully represent the communities we live in.”
Professor Pitts said: “As we move past the restrictions put in place for the pandemic, our research is helping organisations find ways to diversify their events and include innovative digital spaces to allow audiences to engage how they want with leisure and entertainment.
“However, independent, smaller, or amateur arts and music groups sometimes do not have the resources or skills to be collecting and analysing the kind of data that will allow them to plan events and exhibitions that will appeal to their audiences and find new ones.
That's exactly why we set up the SPARC Audience Consultancy, to help these organisations nurture and grow audiences, extending the benefits of their activities to the wider community.”
SPARC Audience Consultancy are available to work with music, arts and heritage organisations to collect crucial data on audiences, venues and artists that can be fed directly into plans to support organisations to sustain their audiences and grow for the future.
Find out more here: https://www.sparcconsultancy.org/

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/rpi/grants:
Grant support information needed by our research partners.
Staff and students should visit our internal site for guidance and support.
Find contact details for grant applications, awards, and contracts.
Guidance on getting authorised signatories on grant applications and contracts.
Authorised signatories
Information on the University's Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) policy for US Public Health Service funded research.
Read the policy
Find policies, guidance and information about aspects of research integrity and research ethics.
Learn more

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/commercialisation:
Merging talented minds with enterprise and creating opportunities for investors.
The Northern Triangle Talent (NTT) project is powering northern spinouts by building a strong, globally-focused mentor community.
Discover the impact this collaborative programme is having on our academics and founders.
Rinri Therapeutics, a world leading spinout company from the University of Sheffield dedicated to transforming sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) with regenerative cell therapy, has received approval to begin its first-in-human clinical trial.
Yorkshire AI Labs, in partnership with Dr Rob Ward and the University of Sheffield’s Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC), has launched DigitalCNC, an AI-driven precision manufacturing software company.
The Commercialisation Journey is the University of Sheffield's structured programme that helps innovators explore the commercial potential of their research with a view to creating spinouts or licences.
The Commercialisation Journey offers a supportive and transparent package for commercialising research, including generous spinout equity and licence royalty terms.
Professor Conchúr Ó Brádaigh speaks to a range of company founders about their unique pathways to commercialisation in healthcare, food production, AI and manufacturing.
The University of Sheffield is committed to fostering a vibrant innovation ecosystem.
The Northern Triangle Mentor Programme is a new initiative to support commercialisation opportunities and early-stage spinouts from the universities of Sheffield, Leeds, and Manchester.
View a selection of active opportunities on the Commercialisation Journey.
We're fostering a vibrant community of spinout founders maximising the real-world benefits of research through their mission-driven companies.
The Commercialisation Journey supports academic staff, research staff and PhD students and the intellectual property they develop on behalf of the University.
Aspiring undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurs with their own business ideas are ably supported by the University’s “Emerge” programme.
Similarly staff and postgraduates with ideas based on non-University intellectual property.
Emerge

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/rpi/impact:
Impact is the change or benefit that occurs outside academia from excellent research.
It can happen in many ways and diverse locations.
It may not occur for many years after the research has been conducted.
You should plan for your impact early, including thinking about how to collect evidence.
Help for planning and evidencing your impact.
Toolkits and resources
For further information talk an impact specialist.
Contact details
Find out how we make an impact

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/rpi/researcher-development:
The University of Sheffield is committed to supporting researchers by enhancing their experience at the University and contributing to their career development.
Information about the University's commitment to researcher development.
View contributions and awards
Contact details of the Researcher Development Team.
Find out about the opportunities offered to researchers to help them develop their academic skills.
Academic Writing Skills
Specialist Careers Consultants offer support to researchers to become proactive and effective at managing their careers both within and beyond academia.
Career development for researchers
Find out more about Think Ahead's suite of mentoring programmes here .
We offer a wealth of development programmes, workshops, and resources for PGR supervisors at all levels of experience.
View provision for PGR supervisors
We offer a wide range of opportunities for researchers to share their research with the world, and to develop the skills and confidence to do so effectively.
Find out more here .
Find out how the Researcher Development team helps to promote and improve Researcher wellbeing.
How we support Researcher Wellbeing
WriteFest is an event held every November to celebrate academic writing.
Find information and resources below.
See more about WriteFest
AcWriVox is a growing playlist of videos created for WriteFest, documenting the writing processes, habits and spaces of academic writers.
Watch the AcWriVox videos
National Postdoc Appreciation Week (NPAW) celebrates the efforts of postdocs and researchers.
Find out about our 2024 NPAW events
Undergraduates can gain a paid, first-hand experience of research in the University's cutting-edge research facilities.
Celebrating and championing the creative communication of research.
Find details and information about the competitions running as part of Kroto Research Inspiration.
KRI competitions
Open research is one of the crucial aspects of the University's vision for research excellence .
More information can be found at the Open Research pages.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/entrepreneurship:
Build Skills | Develop Ideas | Launch Ventures
Take a look at our range of skill-building workshops, inspirational fireside chats and special events with a host of guest speakers.
The Emerge: Be enterprising community is a welcoming community for students, recent graduates and staff who are looking to become more enterprising.
Alongside our group sessions, our expert team offer one-to-one support for project leaders and founding teams in their mission to solve problems and forge successful ventures.
Are you a University of Sheffield graduate running a business?
Emerge is offering £1000 to help you connect with your customers.
Apply online and boost your network.
Sheffield's entrepreneurial future is bright.
Last week, the Emerge Awards Showcase spotlighted the University's brightest entrepreneurial minds.
Which of these promising initiatives will achieve significant industry impact?
The awards panel, comprised of three regional entrepreneurial figures, meticulously reviewed 19 finalists during a pitch day held at the Start-up Studio.
Find out about the new businesses competing for a £14,000 prize pool!
Emerge's recent event celebrating International Women's Day, successfully fostered entrepreneurial confidence and community through inspiring speakers, student pitches, and engaging panel discussions.

New sentences found on https://sheffield.ac.uk/collaborate/partners/collaborative-research/policy-engagement-and-impact:
Want to see your research make a real-world impact, or are you a public servant looking to understand current research and connect with experts on particular topics?
Our team is here to help you bridge the gap between policy-making and academia.
Our team identifies, creates and promotes opportunities for policy-makers and researchers to engage at every level, raising awareness of the various ways this can be achieved and the real-world impact it can generate.
Connecting policy-makers to academic research - at the local, national and international levels - can lead to better, evidence-informed policy outcomes with stronger societal impacts.
The team is equally passionate about establishing strong talent pipelines into government, ensuring that the brightest minds are tackling the biggest challenges.
We connect researchers across the University with relevant opportunities.
For policymakers, we facilitate connections with Sheffield researchers in several ways.
These include informal conversations, seminars and roundtables, upskilling programs for civil servants, and placements, secondments, and graduate recruitment.
We can help policy-makers in local, national and international government gain access to high quality research and expertise across a wide range of areas.
The award-winning Sheffield Policy Campus is about creating opportunities and connections for researchers and civil servants working on national policy (based in this region) to collaborate on policy making, enhancing the policy evidence base and improving outcomes.
Sheffield is the largest centre of national policy making outside of London, with around 1,000 civil servants based in the city.
The Policy Campus brings together the University of Sheffield, Sheffield Hallam University, further education colleges, local government and regional offices of central government departments, including the Department for Education (DfE) and the Department for Work & Pensions (DWP); and others with a smaller presence such as the Home Office, Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government, and the Ministry of Justice.
The Policy Campus initiative also aims to create exciting and dynamic policy career options for our graduates.
The University has a longstanding partnership with the Civil Service who provide up to 65 work experience opportunities per year via easter internships, summer, and year long placements in their Sheffield-based offices such as the Dept.
for Education and Dept.
for Work and Pensions.
This work is through the Sheffield Policy Campus and aims to decentralise key government roles, opening the Civil Service up to talent across the country and boosting regional economies.
Interns through these schemes have gone on to be successful in securing placements as gap year students and in the Civil Service Fast Stream.
The Sheffield Policy Campus enables civil servants to develop careers that can progress to the highest levels of the civil service within the region.
This partnership is inclusive for students and we aim to demonstrate that a career in policy is a possibility for all, no matter your degree subject or background, and without requiring you to be based in London.
Through the partnership we have the following high profile opportunities (all of which come with a financial bursary) for undergraduate students to gain paid work experience in the Civil Service right here in Sheffield, whilst simultaneously establishing a pipeline of emerging talent into the Sheffield Policy Campus:
Two-week internships for students with little to no work experience to gain hands-on project work experience in the Civil Service.
Projects are typically hosted in the Department for Education (DfE), Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) and some other Government agencies in the region, working on live project briefs whilst being linked to a senior supervisor.
10-week paid placements at the Department for Education (DfE) or Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) through which students are embedded in the Sheffield Policy Teams and work on live policy assignments with colleagues from Yorkshire and London.
Year-long paid placements give students the opportunity to work as Policy Officers in the Department for Education (DfE) and Department for Work and Pensions (DWP).
Tailored support is offered to students who want to engage with the above opportunities, and a pipeline has been created to ensure we give students the best possible chance of succeeding.
Policy Challenge: A simulation day led by the Head of Long-Term Strategy at the Civil Service where students act as Policy Advisers to the government.
Civil Service panel event : Students hear from representatives at the Department for Work & Pensions (DWP), Department for Education (DfE), Home Office, and Ministry of Justice (MOJ) to gain insights into local and national government.
Intensive 1:1 placement application support: Students hear from representatives at the Department for Work & Pensions (DWP), Department for Education (DfE), Home Office, and Ministry of Justice (MOJ) to gain insights into local and national government.
Over the past few years, we’ve built an excellent relationship with the University of Sheffield Sheffield Policy Campus Team, particularly the student skills lead, to deliver a range of outreach and engagement sessions with students, culminating in the summer internships and 12-month placements.
This is central to our work to develop a future talent pipeline into the Civil Service across our northern hubs and is the flagship offer within the Sheffield Policy Campus.
The quality of students has been consistently high, and they have brought energy, enthusiasm and fresh perspectives to key work areas in the DWP and the DfE."
Sophie Malendewicz, Head of Long-Term Strategy, DWP
The University's world-leading research spans a wide-array of disciplines, drives intellectual advances and addresses local, national and global challenges.
Navigating the expertise at our University can be daunting.
Our team simplifies this process by connecting policy makers directly with the experts they need.
The support we offer includes:
From tackling ageism in the arts to exploring the take up of low carbon technologies, read more about how policy makers work with our researchers to make evidence-based policy decisions:
Whatever your interest, we will endeavour to find the best person in the University of Sheffield for you to talk to.
We took a large number of research placement students from the University of Sheffield.
I was hugely impressed by their initiative, and how they took on tricky issues from a standing start, pulling together high-quality projects that were valuable to policy development, and presenting them to senior colleagues.
It’s a great initiative which we see as an important part of our talent pipeline for the Sheffield Policy Campus.
We’ve already seen students progress from research placements, to paid summer internships, and then on to the civil service fast stream.”
Roger Cotes, Director Regions and Providers, and lead Civil Service Sheffield Policy Campus
Examples of our work with policy makers
Find out more about collaborating with the University of Sheffield