# Site: https://www.soas.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 493
# --------

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk:
Please enable JavaScript in your web browser to get the best experience.
loading...
Secure your place at SOAS through Clearing
We offer more than 200 postgraduate programmes, all providing specialist focus, flexible, tailored learning and an international perspective.
Explore the full range of undergraduate courses at SOAS, discover what you're inspired by and find the right subject for you.
MA student Lilato Madiri shares why studying media through a critical, decolonial lens is vital in an era defined by digital disruption, misinformation, and contested power.
MA student Anna moved across the pond to pursue a Human Rights Law degree.
She runs through the key reasons why she chose SOAS.
London’s theatre scene offers not only entertainment but also a space for telling untold stories and building community.
Lilly shares her must-visit venues.
SOAS students share their favourite study spots as they see it, from the peaceful Senate House Library to serene gardens and personalised desk set-ups at home.
Fuel your busy days of lectures and study sessions with a caffeine boost from these top coffee spots near the SOAS campus.
Study Enquiries: +44 (0)20 3510 6974
This website is proudly built & maintained by Numiko

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study:
Here at SOAS we offer a range of programmes, from undergraduate, postgraduate and research, to online and distance learning, with study abroad options.
Our mission is to develop local and global knowledge, international perspectives, engage in robust debate, and teach the necessary skills required to be a global citizen - one who is capable of making an impact in a changing world.
We welcome applications from qualified students holding a good Master’s level degree (or overseas equivalent) in a relevant subject for research degrees at SOAS.
Online learning courses at SOAS University of London
One of the world's most important academic libraries for the study of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Presenting a programme of contemporary art exhibitions showcasing work from across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Chat to a student ambassador and find out what life at SOAS is really like.
Our ambassadors are here to answer your questions about student life, living in London and what to expect on campus.
SOAS open days are the perfect way to explore our central London campus, meet staff and students, and ask any questions you may have.
Explore our study abroad and exchange programmes for both visiting and outgoing students, which includes more than 70 global destinations.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/clearing-soas:
Secure your place at SOAS today through Clearing!
Clearing is your opportunity to explore options one final time before September, whether you’re applying to university for the first time or have already applied elsewhere.
You might be applying to SOAS (or university) for the first time, reconsidering the course or universities you have applied to, or feeling uncertain about your upcoming results and looking to keep your options open.
No matter your circumstances, our team are here to support you through the process and help you find the perfect course for your goals.
You can use Clearing if you:
We've set aside 200 accommodation places for Clearing students , which will be allocated on a first come, first served basis.
Take a look at all the undergraduate courses available via Clearing and find the right one for you.
If you're looking to join SOAS through Clearing, this quick step by step guide contains everything you need to know about what to do on the day.
Whether you’ve only just decided to apply, have changed your mind on what course you want to study or you don’t quite get the grades you were hoping for, here are some top tips for navigating the Clearing process.
If your child’s results aren’t what they hoped, or they’ve changed their mind to switch course or even about going to university, Clearing is a great way to get on the next step of the educational ladder quickly.
SOAS offers a range of student accommodation in central and greater London, including halls of residence and private housing.
Find out how to fund your studies with more information on student loans, grants and a range of scholarships that may be available.
At Student Advice and Wellbeing, our aim is to help any student to complete their course successfully through the specialist, professional services we offer.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course:
Choose from our list of undergraduate, postgraduate, online learning, research and short courses.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/apply-soas/how-apply-undergraduate-study:
Here's everything you need to know to apply for an undergraduate degree at SOAS.
Find out how to make your application via UCAS, the deadlines to remember, and what our admissions team is looking for.
All applications for undergraduate courses are made through UCAS - this includes international students.
If at any point you need help applying, contact us at study@soas.ac.uk or call +44 (0)20 3510 6974 .
To submit your application, you'll need:
A step-by-step guide on how to fill out your application can be found on the UCAS website .
Our undergraduate courses start in September and UCAS opens for applications in September for entry the following year —  so you can apply 12 months prior to the start of the course.
Please refer to UCAS for a comprehensive list of application deadlines.
After you've completed and submitted your UCAS application, you can track your application on UCAS Hub .
For some qualifications we will receive your results through UCAS from the exam boards if you sit the exams in the current year, which include:
If we don't receive your results through UCAS, we will contact you.
View for a full list of exam results that UCAS receive from the exam boards .
If you are studying a qualification for which the exam results are not verified by UCAS, you must submit your results to us by email as soon as you receive them.
Please send colour scans of your official certificate and/or transcript to undergraddocs@soas.ac.uk quoting your full name and UCAS ID in the subject line.
If the documentation is not in English, a formal certified translation into English issued by a recognised translator should also be provided along with the original.
Please note that we are unable to accept any unofficial documents provided by the applicants.
We may accept unofficial documents (e.g., statement of results) sent to us directly from your school.
You will need to contact your school and ask that they email confirmation of your results on school letter headed paper from an official school email address.
They will need to include your full name and UCAS ID in the subject line of the email.
Please do not send us any documents by post.
All applications for full-time undergraduate courses are made through UCAS
Our entry requirements are different for every course, so please check individual course pages for the grades you'll need to study with us.
If your qualifications are not listed, please contact our course enquiries team at study@soas.ac.uk .
Additionally, if you do not meet the standard requirements of the programme, please get in touch with course enquiries, as we may still be able to consider your application.
All international applicants must be able to show that their English is of a high enough standard to successfully engage with and complete their course at SOAS.
Explore our course requirements on the English language requirements page.
We encourage applications from students with disabilities and consider all applications on academic grounds.
If you have a disability that might affect your studies, please indicate this clearly on your application form.
We make every effort to accommodate students with additional needs.
The procedure for admission of disabled applicants is in accordance with the legislative requirements of the Disability Discrimination Act, and you may be invited for an interview to discuss whether any special arrangements or equipment you need can be provided.
For more information, please visit our Disability Learning Support pages.
We understand that not all routes to university are equal.
We are committed to ensuring students from a variety of underrepresented backgrounds can access the transformative nature of a SOAS education.
All applications are considered holistically by our admissions team, who consider a wide variety of factors , including information provided in your UCAS application.
If you have any questions or would like further information, please get in touch with our course enquiries team at study@soas.ac.uk .
If you are considering transferring to SOAS, you can apply for a transfer via UCAS and include Year 2 as the year of entry.
Please note that it is not possible to transfer to Year 3 or beyond.
In order to be considered for Year 2 entry, you will need to satisfy the following criteria: 1.
Meet the Year 1 entry requirements for the degree you wish to transfer to, and 2.
be on track to achieve/have achieved a 2:1 in your first year of studies, and 3.
must be covering/have covered the equivalent of the SOAS core modules of the degree you wish to transfer to.
You can explain the reasons for requesting a transfer in your personal statement.
Decisions are made on a case-by-case basis by the academic department, and places are not guaranteed.
Please read the UCAS guidelines for information on how to proceed.
Book your place on one of our in-person campus tours and get a taste of student life at SOAS and ask any questions you might have.
Our students come from all over the world.
Here you can find information and support for our community of international students.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/apply-soas/how-apply-postgraduate-study:
We are pleased you are interested in applying to SOAS.
Applications for postgraduate taught programmes are open from the end of October to 31 July each year.
Here we provide information on the application process, the steps involved, and what you need to do
At SOAS we offer over 100 postgraduate taught degree programmes.
To find the program which is right for you browse our Postgraduate Taught Courses .
Each programme page will tell you the details about the programme content, specific entry requirements, delivery methods and mode and the tuition fee.
It is only possible to apply and hold an offer for one postgraduate programme at SOAS per year.
As part of your application, you can choose a second-choice programme.
You will initially be considered for your first choice.
Your second choice will only be considered if you are not successful for your first choice of programme or if you change your mind on the programme that is best for you.
For our Master’s programmes we will consider a 2:2 or above Bachelor (honours) degree or international equivalent.
Each programme has slightly different requirements so remember to check individual degree programme pages for any subject-specific entry requirements.
Check your specific country requirements on our entry requirements pages.
All applicants must be able to demonstrate that their English is at the required level to successfully engage with their degree programme.
The required scores and accepted evidence, tests and qualifications for our courses can be found on our English language requirements pages.
Our IFCELS department offers a range of programmes to help prepare international students for study at SOAS.
This includes programmes designed to improve academic English skills, Pre-Masters courses, and short courses on various subjects across the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
If your English isn’t at the required level or your academic qualification is not equivalent to a UK Bachelor (honours) degree, or you haven’t quite met the grades these programmes may be suitable to help you reach the entry requirements.
Make sure you have all the required documents ready when you submit your application, these include:
If you require a student visa to study in the UK, SOAS will only sponsor you for full-time studies.
If you are considering applying for a scholarship or financial sponsorship to fund your studies, it is advised that you submit your application as early as possible.
We aim to process a complete application within a 4-week period.
If more information is needed to make an assessment of your application, you will be contacted via email.
If your application is successful, you can find more information on the next steps or dedicated offer holders page .
You can apply for postgraduate study at SOAS through our dedicated application system.
If you are coming to SOAS to study a Dual Partnerships Masters through our Global Partnerships programmes, as well as completing all the steps in the ‘How to Apply’ section above, you will also need to:
Postgraduate degrees (MA,MSc,LLM, MMus, MRes) at SOAS University of London
Find out about our research degrees and how to apply.
How SOAS students can apply for accommodations and student halls of residence in London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/apply-soas/how-apply-research-programmes:
Before applying to study for a research programme at SOAS, ensure that you can meet all the entry requirements.
The information below includes details on how and when to apply for our research programmes.
Before applying for a research programme, please:
An application is only considered complete if the following requirements have been fulfilled:
If you are applying for the joint MPhil/PhD in Applied Development Economics programme with University of the Witwatersrand (Wits), as well as completing all the steps in the ‘How to Apply’ section above, you will also need to specify either SOAS or Wits as your ‘Home Institution’ in the Partnership Universities section of the application form.
If you plan to be based mainly at SOAS in the UK for the duration of the programme, please select SOAS as your Home Institution.
If you plan to be based mainly at Wits in South Africa, please select Wits as your Home Institution.
Our research is about change.
We see the world differently, and we seek new solutions to historic challenges.
Find out about the annual fees for studying on campus research programmes such as MPhil/Phd.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/apply-online-learning:
Find out how you can apply for our extensive range of online learning courses.
Apply using our Distance Learning Programmes Application portal
Applicants will be required to provide the following supporting documentation:
Please make sure that we receive your evidence in plenty of time before the application deadline.
We reserve the right to request additional information and/or the original documents.
If a document/statement is not in English, a translation may be required.
We cannot obtain any of the above documents on your behalf.
Please submit electronic or photocopied evidence of your full name (including any changes to your name) and date of birth – this must be one of the following:
If you have changed your name please supply one of the following to support your change of name:
Submission details: electronic copies (scanned/photographed) or photocopies of originals will be accepted.
Do not provide originals.
Please send original colour scans of the required certificates and transcripts via email.
We don't accept black-and-white photocopies (unless certified by the awarding institution) and may ask for originals or verified copies if needed.
We require documentation confirming the award of all qualifications listed in your application, which can either be your certificate or academic transcript.
This must show: the name of the university, programme studied and the grade/classification you attained.
If your university cannot issue official documents in English, we will require a certified translation in English of your degree certificate/transcript.
You may need to submit evidence of your English language proficiency.
See SOAS' online learning English language requirements for more detail on the qualifications and scores which can be accepted.
Verification means that your original document has been seen and the photocopy has been sworn to be a true copy of the original.
All verified copies must be officially stamped, signed and dated by the named authority.
Verifications should be made on the front of the certificate and not the back.
They must also state their full name, job title/position and contact details.
There are three ways to verify your documents:
You can submit photocopies of your original educational documents provided these are verified as a true copy of the original by one of the following authorities:
You can submit photocopies of your original educational documents provided they have been verified as a true copy of the original by one of our recognised teaching institutions.
Please contact the institution first to see if they can provide this service before you visit them.
Contact the relevant awarding/examining authority and arrange for them to send direct to us a statement/transcript of your results.
Details must clearly give your name, date of birth and University of London student reference number if available.
Do not send original documents - these will not be accepted.
If none of the three options above are available, please contact the relevant admissions team for further advice.
If a document/statement is not in English a translation may be required.
Translations must be provided by one of the following:
An embossed stamp or similar mark of authority must be on the translation.
All translated documents must be accompanied by full details of:
We will make spot checks to confirm that this work has been carried out by the named authority.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Call us on 020 3912 6580 to secure your place
Students are drawn to SOAS by its international reputation for academic excellence, as well as for the opportunity to study in a lively and international environment with like-minded individuals who feel passionately about contemporary world issues.
Undergraduates discover a fascinatingly diverse, lively and close-knit community on SOAS’s central London campus, and friendly fellow students who share an intellectual interest in the international issues in which SOAS specialises.
SOAS is a place for those who want to expand their horizons and develop a deeper understanding of the world; for those who want to re-examine preconceptions and not just accept the status quo.
Everything you need to know to apply for an undergraduate degree at SOAS.
Find out how to apply, the deadlines to remember, and what our admissions team is looking for.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/undergraduate-funding:
At undergraduate level you can apply for loans, bursaries, scholarships and other financial support to help fund your programme.
Undergraduate students with Home fee status may be eligible for loans and grants to help pay for tuition fees and living costs.
A SOAS Bursary is available to some Home fee payers studying an undergraduate course.
Scholarships and Awards available to SOAS Undergraduates
Hardship funds available to enrolled students at SOAS
Information about international loans and funding from the USA, Canada and Scandinavia.
If you have a question about the funding you may be entitled to, including Student Finance loans , state benefits and hardship funds, contact the Student Advice Service .
They can also give you guidance on managing your money.
Email: adviceservice@soas.ac.uk
The Fees and Funding team can answer queries about payment methods , instalment plans , as well as SOAS administered bursaries and scholarships .
They also communicate with the Student Loans Company about your enrolment and any enrolment changes that may affect your student loans such as withdrawing or taking a leave of absence.
Email: fees@soas.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/entry-requirements-undergraduate:
The degree programme pages list A level entry requirements, which vary from programme to programme.
In addition to A levels, we accept a wide range of alternative UK and International qualifications.
The tables below are a guide to A level equivalency, but some programmes may ask for additional requirements.
Please note that actual offers may differ slightly.
For further information on transferring to SOAS, please refer to our information on How to apply .
We understand that many applicants may choose to take a combination of qualifications, such as A-levels and BTEC.
Our Admissions team will consider all of your qualifications and make a decision based on A-level equivalency and suitability, depending on your chosen programme of study.
For further information on Contextual offers, please refer to our contextual offers information.
Applicants applying to one of the following programmes must ensure the following entry requirements are met (where applicable) in addition to the programme entry requirements:
A level Maths grade B or above.
GCSE Maths grade 6/B or above.
Applicants applying for single hons.
or joint Law Programmes will have to undertake the Law National Aptitude Test (LNAT) if you have taken one of the following qualifications:
If you are unsure on whether you would be required to sit the LNAT, please contact the Enquiries team at study@soas.ac.uk .
We will consider applicants studying the IBCP on a case-by-case basis.
Students will need to be studying a combination of IB Higher level  courses and acceptable  Level 3 BTEC Diplomas.
Combinations with other acceptable Level 3 qualifications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
We will consider stand alone IB Higher Level certificates either on their own or in combination with other acceptable Level 3 qualifications.
You will need to study the equivalent of 3 A levels to be considered.
T-level qualifications (equivalent to 3 A-levels), will be assessed on a case-by-case basis taking into account the relevance of the subjects the applicant has studied to the programme applied for.
Extended Project Qualification (EPQ) are taking into consideration when the following criteria is met:
Qualification: Reifeprufungszeugnis / Maturazeugnis
Qualification: Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama / Tawjahiya
Require International Foundation Programme.
For information on applying to study the International Foundation Programme at SOAS please refer to the International Foundation Programme (ICC)
Qualification: Diploma van Secundair Onderwijs
Qualification: Certificado de Conclusão de Ensino Médio (Certificado de Ensino Médio)
Qualification: Diploma za Zavarsheno Sredno Obrazovanie
Qualification: High School Diploma
Qualification: Senior Secondary Graduation Certificate + Gaokao
Qualification: Matura Certificate
Qualification: Apolytirion with 2 A-Levels
Qualification: Studentereksamen; Hojere Forberedelseseksamen; Hojere Handelseksamen; Hojere Teknisk Eksamen
Qualification: Thanaweya A’ama
Qualification: Gümnaasiumi lõputunnistus with the Riigieksamitunnistus
Qualification: Ylioppilastukint / Studentexamen
Qualification: French Baccalaureat or Option Internationale du Baccalauréat (OIB)/ Baccalauréat Français International (BFI)
Qualification: Abitur
Qualification: Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio with Pan Hellenic exams
Qualification: Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education
Qualification: Matura (Erettségi)
Qualification: Stúdentspróf
Qualification: Standard XII
Qualification: Irish Leaving Certificate
Qualification: Bagrut
Qualification: Diploma di Esame di Stato
Qualification: Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate
Qualification: Tawjahiya
Qualification: Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama
Qualification: Certificate of General Secondary Education
Qualification: Baccalaureat
Qualification: Brandos Atestatas
Qualification: Advanced Matriculation Certificate
Qualification: Título Académico de Bachiller / Diploma de Bachiller / Bachillerato General
Qualification: Diplôme du Baccalauréat
Qualification: Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs
Qualification: West African Senior School Certificate (WASSCE)/Senior School Certificate (NECO)
Qualification: Vitnemål vidergaende opplaering
Qualification: Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC)/ Intermediate
Qualification: Senior High School (with Senior High School Diploma after 12 years)
Qualification: New Polish Matura
Qualification: Diploma de Ensino Secundario
Qualification: General Secondary Education Certificate (Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama)
Qualification: Diploma de Bacalaureat
Qualification: Attestat
Qualification: Thanawia / Tawjahiya
Qualification: Polytechnic Diploma (Nanyang, Ngee Ann, Singapore, Temasek and Republic Polytechnic)
Qualification: Maturitná skúška / Maturita / Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške
Qualification: National Senior Certificate
Qualification: High School Diploma/ High School Certificate of Graduation
Qualification: Curso de Orientación Universitaria / Título de Bachillerato
Qualification: Slutbetyg / Examensbevis från Gymnasieskolan
Qualification: Federal Maturity Certificate
Qualification: Senior High School Diploma/Senior High School Graduation Certificate
Qualification: Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education
Qualification: CAPE
Qualification: Baccalauréat
Qualification: Lise Diplomasi
Qualification: High School Diploma plus ACT, SAT, or AP exams
AAA:
AAB:
ABB:
BBB:
Entry requirements for international applicants to successfully complete their course at SOAS.
Details about postgraduate entry requirements
Entry requirements for the Summer School

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/contextual-offers:
For UK students, as well as taking into account your qualifications, reference and personal statement, we also consider the context in which your education has taken place, which is assessed through information you provide in your UCAS application.
This is contextual data, used to encourage widening participation; done so that we can make a fair decision on whether to accept an applicant with grades slightly below our standard entry requirements, based on a judgement that they have the potential to succeed at degree level study.
Contextual offers are not made for BTEC qualifications or A level combined with other qualifications.
Please be advised, contextual offers are not applicable where an applicant is applying through Clearing.
Examples of contextual data we may take into account include:
The POLAR score looks at how likely young people are to participate in higher education across the UK and how this varies by area.
While the IMD measures relative deprivation across England, considering factors such as income, employment, crime and barriers to housing.
In general, when an offer of study is extended, the conditions given are based on our standard entry requirements.
If a contextual offer is extended, the conditions are made with slightly reduced entry requirements, up to two grades below our standard entry requirements.
Applicants must meet at least one of the above criteria to be considered for a contextual offer.
Subject-specific requirements are not part of a contextual offer.
Undergraduate and bachelors degrees (BA, BSc, LLB) at SOAS University of London
Undergraduate entry requirements, UK and International qualifications and alternative entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
SOAS welcomes the brightest minds to study on its central London campus with like-minded individuals who feel passionately about contemporary world issues.
Combining languages, inter-disciplinary expertise and regional focus, SOAS programmes are taught by respected specialists engaged in fieldwork and research, which influences both government policy and the lives of individuals across the globe.
SOAS scholars debate pressing contemporary issues such as human rights, development, migration, identity, legal systems, poverty, religion, and social change, and engage in a wide range of global research projects, which are shaping the culture, economics and politics of societies all around the world.
for International Faculty (QS 2025)
ranked 'world leading or internationally excellent' (REF 2021)
Have you found the information you're looking for?
If not send a question to our dedicated enquiry team.
Explore our range of taught Masters and certificate programmes and find out how to apply.
At SOAS we host an exciting public events programme across a broad spectrum of topics, including public lectures, research seminars, exhibitions, concerts, festivals and open days.
SOAS has a wide range of scholarships and awards to support students on our degree programmes.
Enhance your career prospects with a Postgraduate work placement year.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-funding:
At postgraduate level you can apply for loans, bursaries, scholarships and other financial support to help fund your programme.
Explore your options and get in touch if you have any questions.
Graduates of SOAS can save up to 25% on their future studies with us.
If you have a question about the funding you may be entitled to, including Student Finance loans, state benefits and hardship funds, contact the Student Advice Service .
The Fees & Funding team can answer queries about payment methods , instalment plans , as well as SOAS administered bursaries and scholarships .
Get information on whether you're eligible for a Master's loan, and how to apply.
Find out if you're eligible for a doctoral loan to help with tuition fees and living costs.
Summary of scholarships available on SOAS' Taught Masters' programmes
Research scholarships available for MPhil/PhD
External scholarships and other funding resources.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/masters-scholarships:
These scholarships provide funding that covers tuition fees in full and provide a maintenance stipend to support their studies.
These scholarships cover tuition fees in full for at least one academic year.
Some awards may cover tuition fees in additional years of study.
These scholarships provide funding that contributes partially towards tuition fees or is paid directly to students to support their studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-work-placement:
Gain professional skills and practical UK work experience, as part of a 2-year degree at SOAS.
A work placement is a chance to apply academic knowledge to a practical, real-world setting in an organisation of your choice.
Develop your professional skills, teamwork, collaboration, critical analysis and problem-solving skills while studying, to help you prepare for your next career step.
You will be expected to secure the work placement yourself, to be approved by the academic department.
The SOAS Careers team are on hand to help you with your CV, interview skills and finding the right organisation for you.
After the taught part of your master's programme in year one, you will have the opportunity to take part in a full-time, 10–12 month work placement at an organisation of your choice.
You will be responsible for finding and securing the role yourself, but you will be supported by our Careers team who can help with job search techniques and CV writing.
The placement can be paid or unpaid but should be relevant to your degree.
Once the placement finishes, you will then write your dissertation, applying what you’ve learnt throughout your course so far.
You should apply for the 2-year ‘with Work Placement’ version of your degree.
If for any reason you change your mind or are unable to secure a placement, you will start your dissertation in the summer and complete your degree in 1-year.
MSc Global Development at SOAS University of London
MSc Economic Policy at SOAS University of London
MSc Development Economics at SOAS University of London
MSc Financial Management at SOAS University of London
MSc International Business with Placement Year at SOAS University of London
This programme has been designed for those seeking a career in the management of creativity, knowledge, innovation and policy.
It also provides a feeder route for those seeking to embark on Doctoral Studies.
MSc Public Policy and Management with Placement Year

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-entry-requirements:
We will consider applications with the equivalent of a UK undergraduate degree at 2:2 or above.
In addition to degree classification, we take into account other elements of the application including supporting statement and references.
While references are optional, they can help build a stronger application profile if you fall below the 2:2 requirement or have non-traditional qualifications.
The country information below outlines international and EU qualifications equivalent to a 2:2 UK degree.
Please remember to check individual degree programme pages for any subject-specific entry requirements.
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): 4 year Bachelor’s from the below universities
Equivalent to 2:ii: 60% or 3.0
OR
Master's degree from a recognised university
Equivalent to 2:ii: 55% or 2.7
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplôme d'Ingénieur/ Diplôme d'Études Supérieures de Commerce (5 years)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 12 (assez bien) or 2.5, 70-74/ B+
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.7 or 67%
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Grado de Licenciado en [subject area] or Titulo (Professional) de [subject area] (min 4 years) from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 5.0/7.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4 years) 学士学位
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70-75% or 2.5-2.9/4.0 (depending on university)
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado en [subject area] or Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.5/5.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Baccalaureus / Baccalaurea (Bachelor degree)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.0/5.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Titulo de Licenciado/ Arquitecto/ Doctor/ Ingeniero
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6.0/10 or 2.7/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (180 ECTS)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.0/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 5/12 or 6/13
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Título de Licenciado/Título de [subject] upon completion of 4-year Licenciatura
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65%  or 6.5/10
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree from recognised university
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% / 7
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65% or 2.7/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bakalaurusekraad from a recognised institution; University Specialist's Diploma; Professional Higher Education Diploma
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.0/5.0 or C
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from recognised public or HERQA-accredited private institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.5/5.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor/Kandidaatti/Kandidat (180 ECTS credits)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.5/4.0 or 1.4/3.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Grade de Licence from a recognised institution in France or completion of three years of study at Grande école
Equivalent to 2:ii: 11/20
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): 2-year Master's degree from recognised university
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.7/4.3 or 60%
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors degree from recognised university
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 (Second Class Lower Division) or GPA of 3.0/5.0 or Overall score of 55%
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6/10 (University) or 6.8/10 (Tech Institutes)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.5/4.0 or Lower Second Class Honours
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor (Alapfokozat) or Diploma (Egyetemi Oklevél)
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors (Baccalaureus or Bakkalarprof)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6.5 out of 10
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (3 or 4 years)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 60%
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree or Sarjana I (S1)
Equivalent to 2:ii: Bachelor degree or Sarjana I (S1)2.7/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licence/ Karshenasi (4-year Bachelor) from recognised uni
Equivalent to 2:ii: 13/20
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (4-year) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65% or Good
Equivalent to 2:ii: Second Class Honours Grade II
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65%
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Laurea (180 ECTS)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 94/110
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): 学士 (Bachelor degree)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70-74% / Good / B or C or 2.5/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.5/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors (Bakalavr Diplomi) or Specialist Diploma from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.67/4.0 or 3.5/5.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 or 50-59% or 2.4/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 2.67/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bakalaura Diploms (Bachelor's) or Profesionālā Bakalaura Diploms (Professional Bachelor's)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6/10
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree / Licence
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or C or 2.7/4.0 or 12/20
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 75% or 2.8/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor Degree from selected institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65% or 2.8/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors / Bakalauro (180 ECTS)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7/10
Equivalent to 2:ii: 12/20
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7/10 or 2:2
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Masters from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 60% or 2.4/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.6/4.0 or B- (Class 2 Division 2)
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class / 60% / Category IIB
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Titulo de Licenciado from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7.5/10
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licence / Licence d'Etudes Fondamentales / Licence Professionnelle
Equivalent to 2:ii: 60% or 2.5/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree / Bachelor's (4-year) from select institutions
Equivalent to 2:ii: 55% or 2.4/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6/10 or 2.7/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: Second Class Lower Division / 2.2 / C+
Equivalent to 2:ii:
Lower Second Class
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors/Bachelorgrad (180 ECTS) or Candidatus/a magisterii
Equivalent to 2:ii: Overall C
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.7/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (4-year) from HEC recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: CGPA 2.7 or 55%
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (4-year) from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 75% or 2.7/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado or Professional Title
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master’s from recognised institution or Centre of Excellence; or Bachelor's from prestigious institution or Centre of Excellence
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.5/4.0 or 80% or 2.5/5.0 or Cum Laude
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licencjat or Inżynier
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.8/5.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado  (180 ECTS)
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplomă de Licenţă/Diplomă de Inginer/Diplomă de Urbanist Diplomat from a recognised university
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplom Bakalavra or Specialist Diploma
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class Honours; 60%; or 13/20
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.5/5.0 or 2.7/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7 / Good
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class; 55%; 3.4/5.0; 2.75/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.3/5.0 or 2.8/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (Bakalár)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70%; or 2.0 overall; or C
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diploma o pridobljeni univerzitetni izobrazbi (University Degree) or Diploma o pridobljeni visoki strokovni izobrazbi / Diplomirani (Diploma of Professional Higher Education) or Diplomant or Univerzitetni diplomant (first degree)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7 out of 10
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Do not accept national qualifications for direct entry
Equivalent to 2:ii: N/A
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (4-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 2.5/4.0; or 2.8/4.3; or 3.0/4.5
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Título de Grado / Título de Licenciado / Título de Ingeniero / Titulo de Arquitecto
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6/10 or 1.5/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor Special Degree or Professional Degree (4-year) from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 55% or 2:2 or 3.0/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (5-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 60% or B
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor Degree /  Kandidatexamen / Yrkesexamen
Equivalent to 2:ii: Pass or Godkänd (with a minimum of 90 credits at Good)
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplom / Diplôme; Lizentiat; Staatsdiplom / Diplôme d’Etat
Equivalent to 2:ii: 4/6; or 6/10: or 3/5
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (Licence/ al-ijaza-fi) from a recognised university
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65%+ or 'Good' from a public university
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65-70% or GPA 2.6/4.0 - 2.8/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2; or Lower Second; or GPA 2.7/5.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.4-2.6/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor Degree from UWE
Equivalent to 2:ii: B-, 60% or 2.5; or Lower Second Class
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplôme National d'Ingénieur/ Diplôme National d'Architecture/ Docteur en Médecine / Vétérinaire/ Licence/ Maîtrise from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 11 out of 20
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Lisans Diplomasi
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.5-2.8/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 (Lower Second) or 3.0/5.0 or B
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7 out of 12; or 3.5 out of 5
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 2.6/4.0 or 75% or C+
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 2.7/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6.0/10 or 2.5/4.0
Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or 2.7/4.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65%; B; Credit; 1.7/2.5; or 2.7/4.0; or 3.3/5.0
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 (60%)
Find out how you can fund your Masters' or Research degree with loans, scholarships and discounts.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/masters-offer-holders:
Now that you are holding an offer to study with us, here is some important information to note ahead of your course.
Your offer letter is where you will find the programme, start date and mode of study for which you hold an offer.
To accept your place at SOAS, you will need to let SOAS Admissions know by following the submit your reply link in your offer letter.
An offer can be accepted when conditional or unconditional so long as it is before the deadline.
The deadline to accept will also be included in your offer letter.
You do not need to make a payment to accept your offer.
However, the majority of students who require a student visa to study at SOAS will need to make a payment to request a CAS.
Please see our CAS Request page for the full details.
The deadline for meeting any conditions of your offer is 31 August.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, you must ensure the conditions of your offer are met as early as possible to allow you to apply for the visa and arrive in the UK in time for enrolment.
If your degree certificate and/or transcripts are not in English, you are required to provide the Admissions Office with a colour scanned copy of the original documents together with a scanned copy of the same document translated into English by a recognised translator.
Documents certified by the awarding university may be sufficient.
Please bear in mind that we may ask to see certified hard copies of original documents.
If you are required to provide evidence of your English language proficiency, it is recommended you do so well in advance of the deadline for meeting the conditions of your offer.
This is to allow for any additional English conditions that may be required, such as a pre-sessional English course.
If you are required to attend an English pre-sessional course, please refer to your offer letter and check our pre-sessional English courses to find out more about the dates and fees of the pre-sessional.
If you have any further queries, please email: presessional@soas.ac.uk
An Unconditional offer can only be issued once an applicant has met SOAS’ academic entry and English language requirements and the evidence to support this has been provided.
Enrolment information is only sent out to unconditional offer holders who have accepted their offer through the online system.
Information on enrolment will be sent from early September.
You will be issued with a student number, different from your applicant ID, which will remain your student reference number throughout your enrolment at SOAS.
You will need your student reference number when doing things like enrolling during welcome week, using the library and when making general enquiries as an enrolled student.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, you must hold an Unconditional Firm offer prior to being able to request a CAS number.
The majority of students who require a student visa to study at SOAS will need to make a payment to request a CAS.
Please see our CAS Request page or the full details.
Fee status is governed by the Education (Fees and Awards) Regulations.
Your fee status is considered against the year of entry for the programme you have applied for and not against the date you submitted your application for consideration.
You can find more information on the UKCISA website.
If you believe your fee status has been incorrectly assessed, you will need to complete and submit the online PG Fee Status Questionnaire alongside any relevant supporting documentation.
Your fee status questionnaire and supporting evidence must be submitted by 31 August otherwise your fee status will default to Overseas when your student record is created.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchange:
Explore our study abroad and exchange programmes for visiting and outgoing students, including more than 70 global destinations.
Adding an international dimension to your studies will greatly enhance your experience of student life and prepare you for a better future.
Studying abroad will enrich you personally and academically, offer a significant advantage for your future career, and help you stand out in a competitive job market.
In short, studying abroad can add immeasurably to your personal development and future study and career opportunities.
Broaden your university studies by spending a semester or year at SOAS University of London.
Enhance your degree and future career prospects with our outbound Study Abroad and Exchange programme.
Find out which SOAS courses have mandatory study abroad requirements.
Explore the global partnerships on offer at SOAS University of London.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/english-language-programmes:
As one of the most international universities in the world, SOAS places great value on our global community and on supporting students from outside of the UK.
We offer a range of programmes to prepare international students for degree study at SOAS, including programmes designed to improve academic English skills, and short courses on a range of subjects across the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
Based on the SOAS Campus in central London, IFCELS students have access to the world- renowned SOAS Library and the 200+ clubs and societies run by the SOAS Students’ Union .
Pre-Sessional Courses are intensive academic English course taking place in the summer before starting at SOAS.
Our international summer programme (with English language) consists of a range of English language or academic non-credit bearing modules.
TEAP (Teaching English for Academic Purposes) is a training course for English teachers who want to work in EAP or upgrade knowledge and skills
Free English language courses designed to support SOAS students
English Language Skills summer course at SOAS University of London
Advanced Reading and Writing - Academic English summer course at SOAS University of London
BA Japanese at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/online-learning:
Our online learning degrees bring the expertise of SOAS University of London to you, wherever you live or work.
Equal in quality to degrees taught on campus, our qualifications are recognised throughout the world for their high standards.
Established over 20 years ago, we have the experience and expertise to deliver specialised programmes designed to meet your professional needs.
By signing up for online learning at SOAS you will be able to:
Postgraduate Diploma/Certificate applicants will enrol at masters degree level and exit with your chosen award based on the number of credits successfully completed.
Get all the information for applying to an online learning course at SOAS.
Our online learning programmes have different subject timetables.
Please review the relevant Centre/Department of study for more information.
This table shows key dates for the Centre for Development, Environment and Policy, Centre for Development Studies, Centre for Gender Studies, Centre for Global Media and Communications, and Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy.
SOAS online learning fees information

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/online-learning/online-learning-administrations-and-support:
For online learning students advice and services about registration, enrolments, fees, scholarships and student status confirmation letters:
For online learning student queries and advice relating to our Finance and Management online learning programmes:
For student queries and advice relating to CeDEP online programme of study:
For all student support and enrolment on the CISD's International Studies and Diplomacy online programmes:
For all student support, and enrolment on the Development Studies online programmes:
For all student support, as well as admissions and enrolment on the Gender and Media online programmes:
For technical support relating to the Virtual Learning Environment/SOAS Moodle :

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/online-and-distance-learning-fees:
Our online learning programmes can be paid in full at the time of enrolment or on a pay as you learn basis.
Pay as you learn means you only pay for the module you are enrolling on.
Students continuing on programmes prior to the academic year 2025/26 will continue to pay previous module fees for CEFIMs and CEDEP programmes (£1,820 and £2,054 (£513.50 for dissertation stage modules) respectively).
Students will be able to pay full tuition fees up front, or on a 'pay as you go' by module basis.
Fees are payable during module enrolment and should be paid in pounds sterling (GBP).
Module fees exclude customs duties/taxes when we send your module materials and fees paid to local examination centres for sitting your examinations.
For any questions relating to Distance Learning programme fees, please contact onlinestudentrecords@soas.ac.uk
This is the quickest, most efficient way to pay.
If you have not previously used the SOAS Online Store you will need to create an account .
After you have created an account you will be able to select the relevant Centre for your programme.
Each programme page contains the programmes that the module fee covers.
You will not be able to select your provisionally enrolled module in the SOAS Online Store but as long as you select the right Centre then you will pay the correct module fee.
We will match up your payment with your enrolment, process your enrolment and send you confirmation.
If you pay the incorrect amount, your enrolment will be delayed, and you will only be able to pay the difference via Bank Transfer so please make sure you pay the correct amount to avoid delays to your enrolment.
You have not made a successful transfer unless you have received an email confirming your payment.
This is your receipt for your payment.
Please use your SOAS email address as your registered email address in the SOAS Online Store as this helps us identify your payment quicker.
Your SOAS email address will be your 6 digit student number with the following domain @soas.ac.uk e.g 123456@soas.ac.uk
Please note that students studying Climate Change & Development or Sustainable Development programmes will need to pay for a core/elective module and a Dissertation Stage at the same time to avoid delays to your enrolment.
To pay by Bank/Telegraphic Transfer; please ensure you transfer sufficient funds to cover bank charges/changes in currency, and make your transfer to:
School of Oriental and African Studies National Westminster Bank, Moorgate Branch, London EC2M 6XT.
UK
Sort code: 56-00- 23 Account no: 25142356 Iban code: GB49NWBK56002325142356 SWIFT Ref: NWBKGB2L
You must make sure to use your SOAS Student Number as your payment reference.
If the student number is not in the payment narrative your enrolment will be delayed.
If a 3rd party is responsible for paying your fees via Bank Transfer it is crucial that your SOAS Student Number is included in the payment narrative.
You must also make sure that SOAS receives the correct fee amount as there could be currency/exchange charges and bank charges that we are unable to advise on.
If you require an official SOAS invoice for your module fees, you will need to supply a letter from your sponsor confirming that they will be sponsoring all, or part, of your programme fees.
Sponsored students are not required to pay by the same deadline as independently funded students.
However, we must receive this letter before your study can commence.
The letter must be on company letterhead with the company logo featured.
It must contain the following information:
When we have received the letter we will process the enrolment(s) and send confirmation to the student.
The invoice will be created by our Finance Department and sent by email to the Sponsor for payment.
You will be liable for the balance of the fees due and in order to complete enrolment you must pay the balance due.
Sponsors must pay the invoice immediately upon receipt.
In the event of non-payment by a sponsor by the due date of the invoice, the student will become personally liable for the payment of fees in full and the balance will be due immediately.
In the event that the student does not pay SOAS will terminate their studies and refer the debt to a Debt Collection Agency.
SOAS reserves the right to refuse to process future enrolments by the student or sponsor if there is a history of non-payment of invoices.
Support from your employer can come in several forms.
It could be financial; it could be allowing study time or an offer to read through your work for your course.
Whatever the level of support from your employer, it will help you succeed in your studies.
The page below is aimed at giving you a methodology for seeking that extra support from your organisation.
Know yourself:
You will need to ensure that you fully understand the programme you have chosen, what it entails (eg.
number of study hours per week, number of assignments/examinations).
You should also be very clear about what you want to achieve as this will form the basis of your request for support from your employer.
Know your organisation:
Understanding the above points will ensure you approach the right people in your organisation and have all the relevant information that they will need to make their decision.
Prepare your case:
Considering all these elements means that you will have all the information you need and how you should request support from your organisation.
You may need to present to your organisation or submit a written report or request.
Either way, following a simple structure will mean you convey all the information you need without losing your audience.
A standard structure would be:
Executive summary
Summarise your case and the final recommendations.
Analysis
This should review your current work situation, why you want to follow this course of study, what the alternatives are, and how this will benefit your organisation.
Alternatives
Highlight other programmes that cover a similar subject and what made this programme stand out for you, identify specifics about the individual courses that have direct relevance to you and your teamís objectives (you should avoid just listing the whole programmes).
Aim to be clear about the benefits to you, your team and the organisation by following this course of study.
Implementation proposal
Review how you will combine your studies with your working day and when your organisation can expect to see benefits.
How will you take what you learn from your programme of study and apply this to your work.
Make sure you remember to include the number of study days and exam periods when you will be out of the office and how you plan to ensure that your work and your team are not affected by your studies.
Any other supporting evidence
Do not forget to include the cost of your programme and potential length of time to completion.
We are happy to help with any further information you may need to build a proposal or to make direct contact with the relevant people.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/short-courses:
SOAS offers an extensive choice of short courses alongside its extensive range of degree programmes,
Whether you are interested in learning a new language; looking to enhance your skills set with a vocational qualification; or wish to take an academic course in preparation for a longer period of study, SOAS is sure to have something to interest you
Associate Student programme at SOAS University of London
Customised short courses at SOAS University of London
Finance and Management short courses at SOAS University of London.
An Individual Professional Award (IPA) is the perfecr option for those looking to update their professional skills, specialise in a particular area, or see if distance learning is right for them without the commitment of a full programme.
Learn about the languages we offer.
The MBA 30 is here to supercharge your entrepreneurial journey, tailored specifically for Black entrepreneurs and small business owners.
In-person and online short courses specialising in the arts of Asia.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/short-courses/associate-student-programme:
The Associate Student programme is very flexible and allows students to study at SOAS for a short time without studying full-time or following a specific degree, certificate or diploma.
As an Associate Student you can choose to take one or more courses at either the undergraduate or postgraduate level.
You will be a fully integrated SOAS student with access to all of the events and facilities of the School but you will not be expected to take any assessments unless you choose to.
Students are required to demonstrate the potential to be able to study at undergraduate level.
Note regarding student visas: If you require a student visa to study in the UK, you will not be able to apply for an Associate student programme.
Similarly, if you currently hold a student visa for study at another institution you will not be permitted to register as an Associate Student at SOAS.
Applicants for one or more courses should complete the Associate Student application form .
The application deadline for each term is as follows (yearly):
You can choose to study modules on campus or take certain language modules via distance learning.
See a full list of SOAS Schools and departments and browse through all of the unique courses that SOAS has to offer on campus.
A full year course counts as one 30 credits, while a course that runs in either term 1 or in term 2 is an 15 credits.
If you have any queries regarding an on-campus associate student application please email: associatestudent@soas.ac.uk .
The language modules listed below offered by the Department of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics (LCL) are available to distance learning Associate Students.
We welcome students from around the world to join these language classes alongside SOAS degree students.
The fees for language modules taken by distance learning Associate Students are £850 for 15 credit modules (1 term) and £1695 for 30 credits (2 terms).
Courses are assessed and credit-bearing.
Associate Students may be undergraduates or graduates who will apply for the undergraduate (UG) or postgraduate version (PG) of the language module, respectively.
The language content of both modules is the same.
Follow the links in the list and contact the convenor for each course for further information.
For other queries contact Naresh Sharma (email: ns19@soas.ac.uk ).
Undergraduate or postgraduate students interested in studying full time at SOAS for one term or one year to form part of their degree at another university should apply through the Study Abroad programme .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/short-courses/customised-short-courses:
We deliver training programmes customised to your organisation’s needs.
Many of our bespoke programmes have a particular focus on a specific country or region, topic or industry, and we will work closely with you through a process of needs analysis to establish the key objectives and priorities for your audience and to select the most appropriate expert to deliver the training.
Programmes are designed to be as interactive as possible, with an emphasis on relevance to the workplace and the key learning objectives of the client.
Customised training can be delivered either at SOAS or at the client's premises, in the UK or overseas.
We work with partners in the private, public and third sector.
SOAS Enterprise has long-standing relationships with a number of overseas Ministries of Foreign Affairs who request tailored briefings for senior diplomats being posted to Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Typically these briefings are for one or two days and cover a range of topics including historical, political, economic and cultural background.
They are a highly valued opportunity to talk to experts about specific issues affecting the region the diplomat will be working in to ensure they are prepared for the particular challenges they will face on the ground.
If you have any queries about customised training at SOAS, please get in touch with a member of the team by filling out our enquiries form .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/short-courses/language-centre-short-courses:
Explore our scheduled course timetables and enrol
Please note: We do not offer classes in English as a Foreign Language.
For English, please contact IFCELS .
SOAS Language Centre short courses
How to Apply for short language courses at the Language Centre, SOAS University of London.
Object-based study of the arts of Asia, run in association with the British Museum and Victoria and Albert Museum.
Available in-person and online.
Offered by the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art, in association with the British Museum and Victoria and Albert Museum.
Join us from anywhere in the world for a fully-online pathway of study.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/art-short-courses:
These courses, offered as part of the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art programme, are open to all and aimed at students from a wide variety of backgrounds seeking to broaden their knowledge of specialised areas of Asian art.
Short courses are ideal for those who do not have the opportunity to attend our full-time programme.
They also serve as a taster to our longer, more immersive modules.
The courses enable us to specialise in specific areas which are not covered in depth within the Postgraduate Diploma modules.
In person specialist art courses explore a single topic over an intensive four-day programme, including lectures by leading experts.
Where appropriate we also include practising artists, musicians and object-study sessions.
Online specialist art courses offer eight weekly lectures by leading experts from academia, museums and the art market.
Lectures are followed by in-depth discussions moderated by the course convenor.
We are thrilled to offer a combination of weekly, online short courses as well as 4-day, in-person courses, including:
Before registering for any of our Specialist Art Short Courses, please be sure to read our terms and conditions.
Our specialist art short courses are open to all.
In-person courses are strictly limited in capacity and places are confirmed on a first-come, first-served basis.
Please register for your place by completing the checkout process on the SOAS store (links on each course page).
Payments by bank transfer can be arranged by email, but please note that store payments made prior to bank transfers being received will be prioritised.
Your place will be confirmed on receipt of an automated email receipt from the SOAS store or by email following the receipt of a bank transfer.
You have the right to cancel your registration for any reason (including if you change your mind) for a full refund within 14 days of the receipt of your payment, but no later than 14 days before the course begins.
Cancellation requests must be made in writing to AsianArt@soas.ac.uk during this time.
We will endeavour to process valid refund requests as soon as possible, but your patience is appreciated in this situation.
Outside of this period, no fees cannot be refunded for any reason.
We do endeavour to ensure that the course that you registered for is delivered as advertised.
However, under certain circumstances we may have to cancel a course.
We will notify you about cancellations or postponements as soon as possible and 14 days before the course begins at the latest.
In these unlikely circumstances, you will have the option to either receive a full refund of your registration fee, or credit of the same amount towards a future course.
We endeavour to make publicly available the full schedule for each Specialist Art Short Course at least eight weeks before the start date – usually much earlier.
If you are unsure if the course will be suitable for you, we recommend you wait until the full schedule is available before deciding whether to register.
We will make every effort to provide the course that you signed up for, but there may be situations in which it is desirable or necessary for SOAS to make changes in course provision.
Minor changes will be reflected in the schedules posted on the SOAS website and sent to registrants prior to the course beginning.
For significant changes to the schedule, course convenor, contributors or activities, we will inform registrants as soon as possible.
Modifications to courses are not grounds for a refund.
However, if SOAS considers that you may be significantly and adversely affected by any changes, you will be given the option to cancel your place for a full refund.
Unless indicated in the course schedule, do not include any other services, including but not limited to, subsistence during course days, travel or accommodation costs or subsistence, insurance including health insurance or services or other costs that might arise prior to or during the course.
The exception being that visits during the course will be either free of charge or paid for by the organiser as part of your fee unless otherwise stated.
Your responsibilities:
You may also be interested in our full-time modules, as part of the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art :

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/finance-and-management-short-courses:
IPA (1 module): £1,820
You should have a recognised UK Bachelor's degree, or international equivalent, in an appropriate discipline depending on the modules you are interested in undertaking.
Your application may be considered if you have previous education and experience, equivalent to a degree-level qualification, which includes suitable preliminary training.
See English language requirements
For those looking to update their professional skills, specialise in a particular area, or see if distance learning is right for them without the commitment of a full programme, an Individual Professional Award (IPA) is the perfect option.
IPA graduates will be awarded a SOAS, University of London certificate, and will then have the option of extending their IPA into a Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma or Master's programme, providing they have achieved a pass mark of 50% or more on modules already taken that are relevant to the subsequent Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma or Master's.
To find out more about Individual Professional Awards, please see how to apply (online and distance learning) .
You can choose a module from any of the CEFIMS Distance Learning programmes available.
You may select one module per session only.
For each module that you choose to study, you will complete two assignments each worth 15% of your total marks.
You will be expected to submit your first assignment by the Tuesday of Week 5, and the second assignment at the end of the module, on the Tuesday of Week 8.
You will also sit a 3-hour examination held on a specific date in October, worth 70% of the total mark.
Important notice regarding changes to programmes and modules .
Each module lasts 10 weeks and examinations are held in late September/October.
Students are registered for a maximum of 2-years.
To find out when a particular module is running, please view the study calendar on each individual module page.
Fees are inclusive of all required resources.
Whilst we incorporate all of the costs into your module fees, depending on your country of residence, you may incur local costs such as: fees paid to local examination centres for sitting your examinations.
Fees may increase each year, therefore may be higher in subsequent years of study.
See online and distance learning fees for further information.
Our distance learning programmes can be paid in full at the time of enrolment (thus avoiding any subsequent rise in fees).or on a pay-as-you-learn basis.
Please read our online and distance learning how to apply guidance and use our online form to submit your application directly to us for consideration.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding:
Find out about the tuition fees you’ll pay and explore how you can fund your programme through loans, scholarships and other financial supports.
The Fees and Funding team can answer queries about payment methods, instalment plans, as well as SOAS administered bursaries and scholarships.
They also communicate with the Student Loans Company about your enrolment and any changes that may affect your student loans.
Find out how much tuition fees you need to pay.
Find out how to pay your fees to SOAS
Find out how your fee status is assessed as either a Home or Overseas feepayer
Find out what loans, scholarships and funding you can apply for.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/scholarships-bursaries-and-awards:
We have a wide range of scholarships and awards to support students on our degree programmes (this excludes any distance learning programmes)
Each award page details the residency and person eligibility criteria, as well as the application deadline dates that you will need to meet.
In order to apply for SOAS scholarships, applicants must also have applied to study a program at SOAS.
Awards for 2025/26 will be opening throughout November 2024 to January 2025.
If you have a SOAS (or internal) scholarship, you will receive your maintenance payments in 3 equal instalments.
Instalments will be paid directly to your bank account.
For queries regarding maintenance instalments, please contact the Scholarships Office at scholarships@soas.ac.uk .
Find out about SOAS tuition fee discounts for SOAS alumni and family members.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees:
Tuition fees cover the cost of your teaching and assessment as well as the use of university facilities such as the library and IT equipment.
The fees you pay depend on your programme of study and whether you have Home or International fee status .
Undergraduate tuition fees
Information on our bands of Postgraduate tuition fees.
Ways to pay the CAS request deposit, SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/international-funding:
Loans for international students will vary in terms of their application process and your eligibility.
The Fees and Funding team can answer queries about tuition fee payment methods, instalment plans, SOAS administered bursaries, scholarships, US Federal Loans and any type of Private Loans.
SOAS participates in the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan Program (Direct Loans) .
Learn more about the loan and application process .
Some SOAS students may prefer to use Sallie Mae Student Loans and Earnest Loans .
We ask that students taking this option send details of the lender and loan required to funding@soas.ac.uk well in advance of the start of term so that the loan can be certified.
US Veterans attending SOAS can utilise their funds from the Department of Veterans Affairs for on campus degrees only but it is very limited.
List of our current programmes can be found on the VA Benefits Website, searching tool.
If your programme is not listed then you will need to consider alternative funding methods.
Contact funding@soas.ac.uk for further information.
If you’re applying for loans, the code for SOAS is ‘PPDV’.
If you require confirmation of the fees you have paid, or Program Information or Confirmation of Enrolment forms to be completed, please email your form to fees@soas.ac.uk , quoting your SOAS ID.
If you are unable to find us under 'SOAS' please try inputting 'School of Oriental and African Studies - University of London'
If you have paperwork where you have to confirm you've paid your fees, please email the form to fees@soas.ac.uk quoting your SOAS ID.
This includes CSN study assurance forms and Lånekassen form C.
We'll complete the forms and email them to you at your SOAS email account.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/enrolment-and-registration:
When you enrol, you formally become a SOAS student.
Completing all parts of enrolment is essential for accessing your student loan, course materials and University resources.
Enrolment – New PGT/PGR/
UG Deferrals 24-25
Enrolment – New UG
Late summer resit students
Welcome Week
Find a step-by-step guide to completing your enrolment process.
As a continuing student, you'll need to re-enrol each year.
Please contact us through the Student Information Desk to speak with the relevant enrolment team.
Explore and  select your optional or open modules through module sign-up.
Information on how and where to collect your SOAS ID cards.
Explore our joint degrees and intercollegiate courses at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/enrolment-and-registration/module-sign:
All programmes of study are made up of sets of modules: some of these you will be required to take (core and compulsory modules), whilst others can be selected from a group of available choices (guided or open option modules).
At SOAS, we assign your compulsory modules to your record automatically each year but depending on your programme you may need to select your optional or open modules through Online Module Sign-up .
Our ' How to use Module Sign-up ' video shows you how to select your modules.
As you'll see in the video, once you have selected your modules you only need to save your choices and log out.
Look through and select your available optional or open modules
To see an expanded list of modules, click on the 'show modules' button at each level.
Modules have been grouped under:
Core/compulsory modules : automatically chosen for you and cannot be changed
Optional modules : modules that you can choose from within your Department
Open options : these are modules (usually from different Departments) that you can choose from
To choose a module, work your way down the groups as they are presented on the page and tick the box next to it.
Sometimes you’ll have to tick the 'group' box above the list first, this applies to groups of open option modules in particular.
If you change your mind at any point, just un-tick the box.
Further information about module content, including the name of the Module Convenor, learning outcomes and assessment structure, is available.
Be sure to enrol in 120 credits each year.
The degree requires 360 credits in total, made up of a combination of compulsory modules, optional options, and open options.
Language degree programmes with a year abroad require 480 credits.
The majority of Masters degrees require 180 credits in total, 60 of which are for a dissertation (the two-year Masters ‘with Intensive Language’ have higher requirements).
If you are studying over two years you should enrol in 90 credits each year, and for three years enrol in 60 credits each year (although this will depend on how many credits you are taking this year).
The dissertation would ordinarily be taken in the final year of part time study.
Try to keep your workload balanced with the same number of credits in each term.
This will ensure that you are able to keep up with the requirements.
Once you’ve chosen modules worth your total i.e.
120 or 180 credits you will not be able to choose any more (further tick boxes will not be able to be selected).
To change a selected module, click in the box next to it to remove the tick and choose again.
If you have had to click in the group box above the module, you will have to un-tick this too.
Some modules have pre/co-requisites which need to have been taken in previous sessions or the current session.
Therefore some modules will not be able to be selected prior to (pre-requisites taken) or after selecting (co-requisites) certain courses.
To save your choices, click the Save button at the top or bottom of the page.
You will still be able to log back in while the system is open and complete your choices at a later date.
Please do not select Submit choices , as this will create an error message
If you wish to abandon choices, select the button at the top or bottom of the page.
This abandons only the optional modules, not the core/compulsory modules (which cannot be changed).
If you're planning to study abroad next year, there is no need to choose your modules online.
If you are progressing from Foundation year into year 1 of your undergraduate degree, you will be invited to make your module choices after you have finalised your degree choice and transfer.
This will be in line with your re-enrolment in September.
Whilst we can’t guarantee that all modules offered during this sign-up period will be available in the next session, every effort will be made to accommodate student choices and the number of selections made to a particular module may be used to determine this availability.
The information will also be used to inform the teaching timetable.
It may not be possible to guarantee that all student choices will be achievable.
Please see the current timetable to obtain an idea of how lecture and tutorials may be structured.
If you have any problems with choosing modules (for example, you can't find the module you want to take or you are not sure how to use the system), please contact your College Hub Team .
Once Module Sign-up closes, module enrolments for next session can be viewed on Online Student Services by selecting View Academic details > Enrolment details .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/enrolment-and-registration/enrolment-new-students:
You will receive an 'invitation to enrol' email showing your SOAS student ID Number and a temporary password.
Go to Online Student Services and change your password (using the temporary password in your 'invitation to enrol' email), and then setup Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) in order to keep your email and SOAS data secure.
You will find full instructions on the Online Student Services home page .
Complete online enrolment:
The Enrolment Team will now check your enrolment, i.e.
personal details, submitted documents, fees payment.
This may take 3 to 4 days.
Should anything be unclear or missing you will be contacted by email.
Once your enrolment has been finalised, you will receive an enrolment confirmation to your SOAS email account.
Once you have received your enrolment confirmation email, you will be able to collect your SOAS ID card.
You can find more information on how to get your SOAS ID card on the ID cards page .
This card gives you access to the library and all SOAS buildings.
During your study at SOAS, you may need a letter to prove your student status - whether it's for council tax exemption, opening a bank account, applying for a Schengen Visa, or many other reasons.
You can request a letter from the Student Hub, via the Student Information Desk (SID).
Please select Request a Service from the main screen.
You will then see the option to browse categories.
Select "General Student Support" and then "Student Letter".
If you have any queries, please contact us through the Student Information Desk to speak with the relevant enrolment team.
Your passport (photo ID page); or Passport card.
Please note we cannot enrol students who are switching from a Graduate route visa to Student visa until their Student route application is approved.
Please do not enter the UK before the start date stated on your 90-day Student visa vignette/permission to enter sticker or Student e-visa/digital immigration status.
If you enter the UK before the start date your Student visa status will not be activated, and you may need to leave the UK and re-enter to activate your Student visa status.
Ensure you arrive in the UK in time for the start of classes and you must attend all required course events as part of the conditions of your Student visa.
Student route visa holders enrolling at SOAS are expected to adhere to the responsibilities and conditions attached to their Student visa.
Please note we cannot enrol students who hold a Graduate route visa unless they have made a visa application for another type of visa which allows study, and this application has been granted.
If you have been issued a BRP that expired on 31 December 2024, but your visa decision letter or email confirms that your immigration permission extends beyond this date and you have not yet created a UKVI account, please see the gov.uk webpages regarding creating your UKVI account and generating a share code.
Please contact us through the Student Information Desk (SID) to speak with a member of the Enrolment team.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/enrolment-and-registration/re-enrolment-continuing-students:
You'll need to re-enrol each academic year or session to confirm you want to continue your studies at SOAS.
It's best to re-enrol as soon as you can, to ensure that your student loans or grants are processed in good time.
Enrolment for continuing students who have
progressed UG/PG/PGR
You will receive an 'invitation to re-enrol' email.
The Teams will check your enrolment, i.e.
If your SOAS ID Card has expired, once your enrolment has been confirmed, please contact the Campus Security Office, located in the Main Building on the lower ground floor.
You can stop by Monday to Friday between 9am and 5pm
Please complete the online re-enrolment task.
However, if you did not previously provide us with your passport/ID document or you have a new passport/ID document please upload it via the Online student portal.
If the immigration document you previously provided to us has expired or you are returning from interruption or a period of non-attendance or you are an EU national/eligible family member who previously did not provide us with evidence of status under the EUSS/ Jersey, Guernsey, or the Isle of Man’s settlement schemes status you must upload the following documents:
If you obtained a new Student visa or switched to a new UK immigration category, please provide us with a ‘share code’ beginning with ‘S’ so that we can view your e-visa and confirm your full immigration status by logging on to Online Student Services and selecting the Upload My documents box.
Please note that the uploads need to be in a JPEG or PDF format and no bigger than 2 MB.
If you have not done so already, you can obtain the ‘share code’ via the UKVI's View and Prove your immigration status service.
Please make sure you are generating a share code for 'any other reason' (not right to work or right to rent).
Student route visa holders re-enrolling at SOAS are expected to adhere to the responsibilities and conditions attached to their Student visa.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/enrolment-and-registration/id-cards:
You can collect your SOAS ID card once you have enrolled.
Your SOAS ID card is an important part of SOAS security provision and we ask that you keep this safe and carry it with you at all times whilst on campus, to help us provide you with a safe and secure environment in which to work and study.
Your ID card serves multiple purposes.
In addition to proving your identity, it controls your access to SOAS buildings and allows entry to the library.
On the front of each ID card is the cardholder's name, photograph, SOAS student number, and your card expiry date.
On the back of the card, you will find information related to Fire procedures as well as designated points while on the campus.
To submit a picture for your ID card, please ensure that the photo meets the following criteria:
Please email your photo to campussafety@soas.ac.uk with your details.
ID cards can be collected Monday to Friday between 09:00 – 20:00 from the Campus Safety Hub, located on the lower ground floor of the Main Building.
During Welcome Week (23-27 September), we kindly request all new students to make their way to the Paul Webley building on the ground floor (room SG38) between 08:00 and 18:00 to collect their new student IDs.
Please don't forget to bring your confirmation of enrolment email for verification.
After Welcome Week (30 September-11 October), The ID card printing station will be relocated to the Paul Webley reception area with same operating hours as during Welcome Week.
For the remainder of the year, ID cards are issued at the Campus Safety Hub, located in the Main Building on the lower ground floor.
You can stop by Monday to Friday between 9:00 am and 5:00 pm.
If this is your first SOAS ID, then simply bring your confirmation of enrolment email for verification and no appointment is necessary.
If you believe your name or course details are incorrect, please use the Student Information Desk (SID) to raise a query.
Choose ‘Change to Personal Details’ from the menu and pick ‘other’ as the request type’ in the form.
Your query will then be looked into by the relevant team.
Fees – If you are looking for support with your Fees, you can book an appointment during welcome week here .
Student Hub – Do you need a letter to confirm your enrolment, open a bank account or have an official form you need to be completed by the university?
You can book an appointment with the Hub Team here .
The enrolment guide for new and continuing students.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/enrolment-and-registration/studying-intercollegiate-course:
Intercollegiate students fall into three main categories.
This is for undergraduate and postgraduate students on a degree programme taught jointly with another University of London college.
Examples of jointly taught degrees include:
We will send you all the enrolment information before you start your degree.
Make sure you complete enrolment before you begin your programme at SOAS – and at the latest by the first Wednesday of term – to make sure we can assign you to your tutorial group by Week 2.
If you are an undergraduate or Master's degree student registered at a participating University of London College, you may be able to take a module at SOAS as part of your degree.
You must have been accepted onto a module and enrolled by the 3rd of October 2025 for Term 1, it is not possible to enrol and commence studies for Term 1 beyond this date.
You must have been accepted onto a module by the 1st of December 2025 for Term 2, it will not be possible to enrol and commence studies for Term 2 if you do not have an offer by this date.
To be eligible, you must:
Please complete the application to study an intercollegiate module (PDF) at SOAS and send it to the Admissions Department:
Our Admissions team will email you to confirm when your application is complete.
Once enrolled, you will be issued with a SOAS library card authorisation so that you can access the library facilities.
Fees are charged to your college pro rata at the relevant standard SOAS undergraduate or Master’s fees rate.
Undergraduate: for a 30 credit module at SOAS your home college will be charged 25% of the standard SOAS Home/EU or Overseas undergraduate tuition fee, a 15 credit module would be charged at 12.5%.
Taught Master's: for a 30 credit module at SOAS your college will be charged 17% of the standard SOAS Home/EU or Overseas Master's tuition fee, a 15 credit module will be charged at 8.5%.
For tuition fees schedules, please go to tuition fees
If you have a disability or Specific Learning Difference (SpLD), please contact our Student Advice and Wellbeing Team .
Please note that any adjustments you have agreed with your home college for learning support or submission of coursework may not apply at SOAS.
If the module you are taking at SOAS include an exam in the main summer exam period, you will normally sit this at your home college.
This is for SOAS undergraduates who want to take a module at another University of London College.
SOAS has in place arrangements to permit undergraduate students, on most programmes, to enroll on a module at another University of London college that is not available at the School and would complement their programme of study.
Please be aware that not all SOAS undergraduate programmes permit intercollegiate study and in some cases additional restrictions on intercollegiate study may apply.
Please note that SOAS postgraduate students are not permitted to take intercollegiate modules at other colleges unless it explicitly forms part of the published programme specification.
Departments/Schools have discretion about approving intercollegiate modules.
When applying for intercollegiate study you will need to provide a rationale as to why you wish to take this module and how it will complement your programme of study.
You cannot take an intercollegiate module if:
You are limited to two full intercollegiate modules (60 credits) during your whole undergraduate degree.
And no more than one full module (30 credits) in a year.
There are special requirements for the LLB degree - please ask the Law School for more details
If you want to take an intercollegiate module at another University of London college and your programme structure permits it, you need to:
You will then be sent an email to your SOAS account confirming approval
Make sure you apply sooner rather than later.
Some colleges have an earlier module sign-up deadline than SOAS so the module may fill up quickly.
Please include the module and college name in the Module Sign-up information you submit to your Department Office.
Your tuition fee covers your study at both SOAS and the partner college.
SOAS will pay the partner college directly.
Intercollegiate modules are governed by the regulations of the home college where the module is being taken.
If you are a SOAS student, you will need to familiarise yourself with the Regulations and procedures of the college where you will be studying.
Students joining us from another college of the University of London, you will need to familiarise yourself with SOAS' Degree Regulations, Policies and Procedures and make sure you understand our rules for submitting coursework and sitting exams.
If you are a SOAS student taking an intercollegiate module at another college, you should contact the disability service at that college if you need any learning support or reasonable adjustments for coursework.
Please note that any adjustments you have agreed with SOAS for learning support or submission of coursework may not apply at the intercollegiate college.
If the module includes an exam in the main summer exam period, you will normally sit this at SOAS.
The same special exam arrangements will be put in place that have been agreed for exams for SOAS modules.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation:
Whether you’re joining SOAS soon or studying here already, our Student Accommodation Team offers help and advice on finding a suitable place to live.
We offer a wide range of accommodation, in locations that range from 5 minutes to 45 minutes travel to the SOAS campus in historic Bloomsbury.
Our portfolio consists of halls of residence with 24-hour security and rooms in shared flats or houses.
Find the perfect undergraduate halls for you with various options you can match to your needs, budget and taste.
Information about all the halls on offer for postgraduate and mature students
At SOAS we have a number of accessible accommodation options.
Accommodation options for students with families
Alternative accommodation for students not wanting to stay in halls.
Summer or short term accommodation.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation/undergraduate-halls:
Take a look at all the details such as room types, location, weekly rates, and facilities you can apply to as an undergraduate student, and take a virtual tour.
Although a hall might have different room types available, only the ones specified in the table below will be offered to undergraduate students.
Please note that some halls offer a choice of contract length for academic (38, 40, 41, 43 weeks) or full year (50, 51 weeks), and this might impact the weekly price.
For more information click on the name of each hall.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation/postgraduate-halls:
Explore all the details such as room types, location, weekly rates, and facilities available to you as a postgraduate student, and take a virtual tour of the accommodation.
It is expected that postgraduate students will require a contract from September to September to access academic support and library resources during the summer writing up period.
Therefore, there are limited 38-43 week contracts available to postgraduate students.
Although a hall might have different room types available, only the ones specified in the table below will be offered to postgraduate students.
Please note that some halls offer a choice of contract length for academic (38, 40, 41, 43 weeks) or full year (50, 51), and this might impact the weekly price.
Intercollegiate Halls marked with an asterisk (*) do not guarantee segregation between Postgraduate and Undergraduate students.
Whilst an effort is made to keep postgraduate students together, this is not always possible.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation/accessible-accommodation:
Please contact the Accommodation Office to discuss your particular accessibility and accommodation requirements prior to application at applyaccommodation@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS advise that you apply for your accommodation as soon as practicably possible to ensure we have available housing to meet your specific requirements.
When you have decided which accommodation you wish to request, and have discussed your options with our Disability & Neurodiversity Team, please email applyaccommodation@soas.ac.uk with the following:
Returning students currently in SOAS accommodation should contact their current provider to ensure continuity of their accommodation.
The following halls of residence have a limited number of adapted rooms:
If you prefer to live in the private sector, The University of London Housing Service offers guidance and can advise about the accessibility of houses and flats in their database.
For more information visit their website University of London Housing Services or contact them at:
The office is open to personal callers, preferably by appointment, Mon, Wed, Thur, Fri 10:00am–5:00pm, Tues 11:00am-5:00pm and on Saturdays in September from 9:30am–2:00pm.
Private landlords are prohibited from giving unjustified less favourable treatment to disabled tenants, eg.
landlords must not charge someone with a disability a higher rent than other tenants.
They are also subject to a duty to make reasonable adjustment to premises to cater for the needs of disabled persons.
If you feel that you have been treated less favourably as a result of your disability, contact the University of London Housing Service for legal advice.
Habinteg are an organisation that provide accessible and supported accommodation across London and nationally.
Most properties have a waiting list.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation/students-children-and-partners:
There is a range of accommodation options for students who are moving to London with their partner.
These are studios in SOAS university halls, and these can be seen in the Accommodation portfolio.
Options are also available in housing associations, as well as private rented accommodation.
Your choice depends on your budget and your personal preference.
Please note that students bringing non-students partners may be liable to pay Council Tax depending on the accommodation chosen.
Please contact SOAS accommodation office if you are intending to bring your partner at applyaccommodation@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS Accommodation is unable to offer housing to those students bringing children with them.
However, there is a range of other options for students who are moving to London with their children.
The accommodation office can provide a list of options for family housing.
Please contact SOAS accommodation office if you are intending to bring your children at applyaccommodation@soas.ac.uk .
International Student House offers flats for couples and families for international students.
There may be a waiting list so apply early where possible.
Goodenough College offers accommodation for post-graduate students with partners and/or up to three children.
They offer a range of scholarships designed to support students who might not otherwise be able to live there, including 2 family scholarships of £2000 per year.
Nansen Village has a range of studios, flats and bungalows for post-graduate students with families.
They run a regular parents and children’s group and there is a privately run nursery for tenants and local children in the village.
Zebra Housing offers studios and flats for international students with partners and/or up to two children.
Students are able to stay for the duration of their studies, however this means there is a lengthy waiting list so you need to apply 3-6 months in advance.
There are usually no restrictions in private rented accommodation about bringing your partner/children, but you should be clear with the landlord who will be living with you.
Make sure you think about your budget as living with your partner/children will increase the amount of rent you pay.
SOAS students can access University of London Housing Services to search for private rented flats and houses.
Free legal advice and contract check service is also available.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation/accommodation-information-parents:
As a parent, guardian or supporter, watching your child leave for university can be a nerve-wracking experience.
London offers a wide range of accommodation choices which can seem daunting at first glance, but supporting your child to make an informed decision about where to live that they are comfortable with can ensure that they get off to a great start at SOAS.
Whilst many students choose to live in halls of residence in their first year, some new students prefer to live elsewhere – at home, in private rented accommodation or with a host family for a variety of different reasons.
Considering the cost of accommodation, location, quality as well as personal preference is key to supporting a decision.
SOAS publish the list of halls and room types available for the coming academic year.
A mix of exhibitors from private halls, accredited letting agents and other housing providers will be in attendance to answer any questions.
More information about the annual fair is available.
Applications open for SOAS Halls of residence.
Waiting list opens for SOAS and University of London Halls of Residence.
Private rented properties are usually advertised 4-8 weeks before they become available – see our advice pages for more information.
It is common practice for private London Landlords to ask for a guarantor to underwrite the cost of a tenancy.
Most expect the guarantor to be based in the UK, and may charge up to 6 months’ rent in advance if the tenant is unable to provide this, which can leave the tenant in a vulnerable position.
There are properties that do not require a guarantor and a list of these can be provided by the SOAS Accommodation Office.
If you are acting as a guarantor for an individual contract between your child/a tenant and the landlord, then you only have liability for that contract, however if a joint contract has been signed, you may potentially find yourself liable for the bills and rents of other tenants.
If you are not happy with the guarantor form provided by the landlord, you can ask them to limit the liability to one tenant.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation/how-apply-accommodation:
The accommodation application process for September 2025/26 opens on Monday 24 March 2025 at 9:00am UK Time.
You cannot apply before this date .
The accommodation webpages are now updated with the new portfolio of residence halls, room types and weekly rent, as well as instructions on how to apply.
You are advised to look through the portfolio and read the application instructions carefully prior to accessing the application portal.
If you are looking for accommodation to move into now or during summer, please contact our office at applyaccommodation@soas.ac.uk to check availability.
You can apply once you have firmly accepted your offer of a place at SOAS.
SOAS have negotiated special rates for our students with our accommodation partners and the current housing options can be found in our home page .
There is no closing date for applications, however, you are advised to apply early to avoid missing out on your preferred options.
Returning students should apply before 7 April to be guaranteed a further year of accommodation.
Please read the full instructions below before you access our application portal to avoid your application not being fully processed.
Applicants are advised to read the following instructions carefully to ensure their application progresses smoothly and quickly through the SOAS application portal.
After accessing/creating your accommodation account:
For clarification, Study Abroad students are those enrolled on our dedicated Study Abroad Programme as part of their degree at their own overseas university.
New applicants will be prompted to create a user account for the first time to access the application portal.
Please ensure to select what year of study will be started September 2025

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges-schools-and-departments/foundation-college:
The Foundation College at SOAS provides courses leading on to further study.
Most of these routes are to SOAS' undergraduate courses, but we also have some pre-Masters courses too.
Part of our work clearly involves equipping you with the skills for further study - be that writing, close reading, working with sources, or for some international students working on language skills.
What we are proud to do at SOAS though, that sets up apart, is offer Foundation Courses with lots of exciting, stimulating and broad academic content.
Much of this asks students to challenge the status quo, to think beyond preconceptions and offer their own opinions and well-researched views as to how things might be different in the future.
Take a look at some of the modules in either Foundation Year or IFCELS to see what we mean.
Explore the many academics working at the Foundation College.
A range of programmes to prepare international students for degree study at SOAS, including programmes designed to improve academic English skills, and short courses on a range of subjects across the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/foundation-college/international-foundation-courses-and:
Based on the SOAS Campus in Central London, IFCELS students have access to the world renowned SOAS Library and the 200+ clubs and societies run by the SOAS Students’ Union .
You can now request and pay for a range of IFCELS services through the IFCELS Online Store.
Please click to access the IFCELS Online Store
The following types of service and items are available:
To support the SOAS Mission by recruiting and progressing students who will go on to make a difference in their communities and in the world, IFCELS endeavours to:
March 2018

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/open-days:
Open days are a great way to get a feel for a university and get all the information you need to decide if this is the right place for you.
At our open days you can explore our campus, get application advice, meet staff and students, and discover how we can help you reach your full potential.
It’s the best way to find out what it’s really like to study with us at SOAS University of London.
Check out our virtual tour to preview spaces on campus where students study and collaborate.
Find out about our diverse, welcoming and supportive community and discover how we can help you reach your full potential.
Attending an open day at SOAS gives you the opportunity to:
We endeavour to make all our events completely accessible.
However, if you have any specific needs or require additional facilities, please contact us on +44 (0)20 7637 2388 or campusservices@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/on-demand:
Nothing can replace the experience of visiting us in London, but our virtual open day is the next best thing.
Here you'll find tailored content, whether you're looking for undergraduate or postgraduate studies, and it's all available on-demand.
Immerse yourself in the SOAS experience and discover everything you need to know about your course or subject.
You can also find out about what it's like to live in London, what support services are available to you, from employability to budgeting, as well as connecting with students, academics and other experts through the Unibuddy community.
At SOAS we aim is to tackle the World's biggest challenges through academic collaboration and cooperation.
In our latest series, we bring together academics and analysts from different disciplines to discuss topics from climate change to human rights.
Immerse yourself in the SOAS experience and discover everything you need to know about our subject from our world leading academics, who discuss what to expect, and what you'll be learning when you enrol at SOAS.
Explore our tailored On-demand content for postgraduates, presented by our world leading academics.
Take a virtual tour of SOAS campus and explore our wide range of facilities available to you on the London campus.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/demand/postgraduate-demand:
Here you'll find tailored content for postgraduate studies, and it's all available on-demand.
Immerse yourself in the SOAS experience and discover everything you need to know about your subject from our world leading academics, who discuss what to expect, and what you'll be learning when you enrol at SOAS.
The College of Humanities is focused on the arts, humanities, language learning and linguistics through a focus on the peoples and communities of Africa, Asia, the Middle East and their diasporas.
It seeks to understand and analyse the important and varied knowledge they generate through their creative arts, culture, history, linguistics, literature, media, philosophies and religions.
The College of Law, Anthropology and Politics is a diverse, multi-lingual, and engaged community with unrivalled expertise and world-leading research developed through deep engagement with the historical legacies, political realities, and international affairs of Asia, Africa, and the Middle East.
The College of Development, Economics and Finance offers real-world teaching, grounded in a global perspective and concrete knowledge of the Global South, especially Africa, Asia and the Middle East, as well as expertise on Europe and Latin America.
Its degrees utilise a range of approaches to analyse processes in different contexts around the world.
Our work involves equipping you with the skills for further study - be that writing, close reading, working with sources, or, for some international students, working on language skills.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/demand/undergraduate-demand:
Here you'll find tailored content for undergraduate studies, and it's all available on-demand.
Its work involves equipping students with the skills for further study - be that writing, close reading, working with sources, or, for some international students, working on language skills.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life:
SOAS is one of the most diverse universities in the UK, with a vibrant student community hailing around the globe.
Hear what life at SOAS is like, directly from the students who shape it.
As a SOAS student you will have numerous opportunities to make new friends from around the world, develop your interests, join societies, and really make a difference.
At SOAS you will be studying in one of the world's most exciting cities with access to hundreds of museums, galleries, restaurants and theatres, as well as a thriving nightlife.
Explore our city-centre campus located in the heart of the Bloomsbury quarter, with a world-class research Library, international gallery and modern student facilities.
Explore our courses by subject, region or department, and find the right programme of study for you.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/student-experience:
The most SOAS thing I’ve experienced is listening to a wide number of languages in the SU, such as Arabic, Mandarin and Urdu.
You can't help but pick up random words and phrases which makes you want to learn more.
Explore the extraordinary range of opportunities you will experience at SOAS, from world-class facilities and student support to societies, accommodation, and life in London.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/campus:
Once, in the SOAS JCR, someone was unpacking the politics of Beyoncé’s Renaissance , another quoting Fanon, and a Palestine fundraiser was happening in the background.
A chaotic symphony of activism, theory, and culture - peak SOAS.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/london-life:
I didn’t expect my social life and studies to blend so easily - art shows with professors, Tube rides for reading spots, plays with classmates, and staying after to debate with the playwright.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about:
SOAS challenges perspectives, broaches debate, and empower students to question the global status quo and find solutions to the issues facing the world today.
Our programmes are taught by respected international academics with inter-disciplinary expertise who are engaged in fieldwork and research that influences governments, industries and communities across the world.
From groundbreaking academics to world-famous students, the history of SOAS is one of constant engagement with a changing world.
The College of Development, Economics and Finance intervenes in and engages with the key economic, social, and financial challenges of our time, focusing on the regions of the Middle East, Africa, and Asia without losing sight of global interdependencies.
The College of Humanities focus is on learning from, and seeking to understand the important and varied knowledge generated through creative arts, culture, history, linguistics, literature, media, philosophies and religions.
The College of Law brings together a range of subjects to explore legal systems and the legal challenges of the developing world, alongside human rights, international law and institutions, environmental law and international trade and commerce.
Find out what makes the SOAS campus in Bloomsbury one of London's most vibrant cultural spaces.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/academic-staff:
SOAS boasts nearly 600 experts who bring specialist knowledge from a wide range of backgrounds and disciplines.
Discover the range, scope and excellence of research at SOAS University of London.
Research projects at SOAS.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges:
SOAS is comprised of three Colleges that play host a wide array of departments, schools and institutes, all of which play a vital part in the academic and cultural setting of the University.
These learning centres at SOAS serve as vital points of convergence for the University experience, and offer lectures, seminars and events throughout the year that are open to the entire SOAS community allowing for enrichment in many different areas.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-humanities:
For more than 100 years, researchers at SOAS have contributed to scholarship on the arts, humanities, language learning and linguistics through a focus on the peoples and communities of Africa, Asia, the Middle East and their diasporas.
The College of Humanities is focused on learning from these regions, seeking to understand them and analyse the important and varied knowledge they generate through anthropology, creative arts, culture, gender studies, history, linguistics, literature, media, philosophies, religions and sociology.
Our research and teaching are grounded in non-western, decolonial and inter-cultural perspectives.
"The College of Humanities is a special place.
It brings together so many perspectives on the crucial questions of our world and, in doing so, creates a community of learning that feels unique and immersive.
"
Meet the College of Humanities leadership team.
The School of Anthropology, Media and Gender is the only one of its kind in the UK -  dedicated to the developing world with unrivalled expertise and produce world-leading research in China, Africa, South/South-East Asia, the Middle East.
The School of Arts is a world-leading centre for study and research involving visual and sound arts, material and intangible cultures, media industries and digital cultures of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
The School specialises in teaching and researching the history, religion, and philosophy of the Global South in a critical, decolonial, and interdisciplinary manner.
The School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics, with its focus on Africa, the Near and Middle East, South Asia, Southeast Asia and East Asia, takes culture - both contemporary and traditional - as the principal lens through which to understand a region.
The College of Humanities brings together more than 300 researchers who study the arts, cultures, and languages of Africa, Asia, the Middle East and their diasporas.
The College of Humanities' interdisciplinary curriculum allows you to focus intensely on a specific subject area or you can choose to spread your studies more broadly.
The African Languages, Cultures and Literatures Section at SOAS University of London.
The Centre for Creative Industries, Media and Screen Studies at SOAS University of London.
The Department of History at SOAS University of London.
The Department of History Art and Archaeology at SOAS University of London.
The Department of Linguistics at SOAS University of London.
The Department of Music at SOAS University of London.
The Department of Religion and Philosophies SOAS University of London.
The Japan and Korea Section at SOAS University of London.
The China and Inner Asia Section at SOAS University of London.
The Near and Middle East Section SOAS University of London.
The South Asia Department aims to reach a better understanding of one of the most complex and significant areas of the world.
The South East Asia Section at SOAS University of London.
How three prints of Southern India by British artists shaped how India was imagined, as monumental, spiritual and timeless.
Natasja, a BA Japanese and History of Art student, is on her year abroad in Tokyo and shares her advice on making meaningful friendships in Japan.
Linshu reflects on her year studying MA History of Art and Archaeology, immersing herself in London’s museum scene for her future career.
A glimpse into the research and publications of SOAS academics in the School of History, Religions, and Philosophies.
A glimpse into the research and publications of SOAS academics from the School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics.
Fewer than 1% of state schools offer an Art History A level.
SOAS alumna Rose Aidin MBE founded a charity dedicated to making art history more accessible.
A multi-year and interdisciplinary project where diverse scholars and practitioners, from AI engineers to Sci-fiction novelists, from philosophers to Sinologists aim to discuss Chinese perspectives on AI in a global dialogue and explore its implications for humanity and its future.
This project unveils the reinvention of religion and Buddhism that frame the “Tzu Chi model” of humanitarian action, and reflects on its potential in informing charity work worldwide.
Border Crossings examines how public narratives and memories of the 1947 partition are changing in Britain and how technology, specifically Virtual Reality (VR), can facilitate dialogue across generations and communities.
Rabbis who lived in Roman Palestine in late antiquity (3rd-4th c.
C.E.) functioned as informal legal advisors who developed a comprehensive body of civil law for their fellow-Jews in the context of Roman imperialism and Hellenistic and Roman jurisprudence.
This project expands Professor Ashley Thompson’s ongoing contribution to restitution work and aims to ensure its positive long-term impact in and beyond Cambodia.
This 12-month provenance research project was funded by the Overseas Korean Cultural Heritage Foundation  (a South Korean government-funded institute overseen by Cultural Administration Heritage and the Ministry of Culture).
Diana’s British Academy-funded research project (2020-2025) examines visual, musical and performative culture as the lens through which to better understand changes in Murle social institutions.
This project’s interdisciplinary team investigates manuscript libraries from the Indonesian island of Sumatra, the first landing point, geographically and historically, of Islam in South East Asia, to better understand the intellectual and writing traditions of the region.
Development of a user manual on participatory biocultural documentation to facilitate local engagement in place-based climate efforts for application across the IUCN global network (1400 organisations across 160 countries).
A multi-year and interdisciplinary project that explores patterns of religious diversity in Sichuan from the 1800 to today, and relocates Sichuan from the periphery to the centre of the study of Chinese religions.
Circumambulating Objects: on Paradigms of Restitution of Southeast Asian Art (CO-OP) assembles individuals across the arts, culture and heritage fields to question entrenched systems of valuation, ownership, replication, collecting and display as these are brought into relief through restitution processes today.
This 4-day British Academy Writing Workshop and 6-months of mentorship sought to amplify the voices of academic women writing about Hausa cultural studies in Northern Nigeria by providing support in revising research in preparation for publication.
Four speakers will discuss game creation for individuals with visual impairments, game localisation and translation processes, and music composition for games in the AI age.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-social-sciences:
Our teaching, research, and knowledge exchange intervene in the key economic, social, and financial challenges of our time.
Our scholarship is focused on the regions of the Middle East, Africa, and Asia without losing sight of global interdependencies.
Here, we celebrate interdisciplinarity and pluralism.
Our classrooms are vibrant places of debate, fostering intellectual curiosity and grounding the learning experience in the multiple material realities of the Global South.
Within the College, you will find world-leading contributions across a wide array of topics ranging from governance, migration, illicit economies, social reproduction, the world of work, sustainability, macroeconomic resilience, and structural transformation, to fintech, among others.
Many colleagues play important roles in advising government, business or the third sector.
We generate a proud community of alumni, many of whom successfully continue their journey from SOAS into leadership positions.
"The College is a truly unique place.
It acts as an important amplifier of context specific and historically grounded analysis, offering insights with significant policy relevance in a fast-changing world."
Meet our academics and explore the diverse range of research interests at the College of Social Sciences
Department of Development Studies at SOAS University of London.
The Department of Economics at SOAS University London.
The School of Finance and Management at SOAS University of London.
The Department provides expert grounding in the study of Politics and International Relations through deep engagement with the historical legacies, political realities, and international affairs of Asia, Africa, and the Middle East.
The College of Social Sciences brings together more than 200 researchers to study and explore solutions to the most pressing social, economic and ecological challenges of our time.
The College of Social Sciences offers a range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, focusing on employability and student experience through diverse modules and initiatives like placement modules and consultancy projects.
Development Leadership Dialogue (DLD) aims to bring people and disciplines together in dialogue in order to generate more effective and inclusive development strategies.
The Feminist Centre for Racial Justice at SOAS University of London.
PhD student Innocent Kasiyano discusses how his research challenges the 'lost generation' narrative of Zimbabwean youth and how the SOAS Library supports his work on youth political engagement.
Ever wondered what it's like in a SOAS classroom?
MA student Lilly reveals the critical questions posed and why they are key in driving learning and discovery.
Repatriation is shifting from returning objects to restoring relationships, as seen in the Gónô Tmutul Storytelling Festival, which fosters cultural continuity and community empowerment.
The SOAS Queer Society introduce the inspiring stories of three Queer activists—Li Maizi, Audre Lorde, and Chi Chia-Wei—who challenged oppression, fought for equality and changed history.
Tech giants dominate our digital world, but their monopolistic grip isn’t inevitable.
In this blog, Taylor D.H.
Rockhill explores how we can push back and reclaim control of our data, privacy, and choices.
Explore how power struggles shape public policy and learn to navigate complex global challenges with SOAS’s MSc in Public Policy and Management.
This project aims at supporting the Bank of Thailand in climate-related issues and transition risk in particular.
This research focuses on understanding the emerging business models and how innovation and venture capital investments, can promote sustainable structural transformation in Africa.
This research focuses on how governments can reshape industries creating new markets and building productive coalitions, to direct the economy towards sustainable prosperity.
This research focuses on how government and private sector can cooperate in building the infrastructure for sustainable energy system and mobility system.
This research focuses on how supply networks should be re-organised and developed for development of mobility- and energy-related industries in Africa.
This research focuses on how African economies should manage the relationships with international mining companies promoting socio-economic development.
This research approaches the issue of energy transition in Africa, investigating the existence of feasible opportunities to realise green industrialisation in Africa.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-law:
The College of Law is the only one of its kind in the UK -  dedicated to legal systems and legal challenges of the developing world, with complementary strengths in human rights, international law and institutions, environmental law and international trade and commerce.
We have unrivalled expertise and produce world-leading research in comparative law (China, Africa, South/South-East Asia, the Middle East), complemented by specialists in international and transnational law, human rights, transnational commercial law, environmental law and socio-legal method.
"The College of Law stands alone in the UK for its distinctive global focus and commitment to preparing future lawyers and scholars to think critically about today's most urgent challenges.
Our world-leading research covers jurisdictions across Africa, Asia, and the Middle East, and is supported by expertise in international and transnational law, human rights, transnational commercial law, environmental law, and socio-legal methods."
Meet the 100+ academics and experts from across the College
Professor Eddie Bruce-Jones joined SOAS in 2023, and is the Dean of the College of Law.
Mashood Baderin is the Academic Director at the College of Law.
Jonathan is a Senior Lecturer in Law and Deputy Dean for Learning and Teaching at the College of Law.
Dr Vidya Kumar is the Deputy Dean for Research and Knowledge Exchange at the College of Law.
The SOAS Arbitration and Dispute Resolution Centre (SADRC) is a research and knowledge exchange centre within the School of Law at SOAS University of London.
The Centre for Law and Social Change is a hub for connections on the topic of law and social change and a space to generate debate, between scholars, students, practitioners, and social movement organisers.
The Law, Environment and Development Centre at SOAS University of London.
The Centre for Human Rights Law aims to provide a space for scholarship and cooperative approaches on human rights law in practice.
The Centre of Islamic and Middle Eastern Law at SOAS University of London
The Centre for Law in Asia at SOAS University of London.
Research at the College of Law specialises in the legal processes and dynamics of societies in the Global South.
The College of Law at SOAS is the largest college, offering unparalleled teaching focusing on Asia, Africa, and the Middle East within the UK.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs:
Acclaimed DJ, radio host, and broadcaster Peter Barakan chats about his life in Tokyo, from studying Japanese at SOAS to presenting cult programmes Japanology Plus and Barakan Beat.
Read the latest key news, announcements and research stories from across SOAS.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/events:
Explore the latest blogs, where the SOAS community weighs in on topical issues, from human rights and climate change, to decolonisation, race, and freedom of speech.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance:
SOAS's leadership team is dedicated to fulfilling the University’s educational mission and research enterprise, advancing a vision for its future, and sustaining its tradition of academic excellence.
Appointed as President of SOAS in October 2021, Zeinab Badawi is an award-winning broadcaster, journalist and SOAS alumna.
The Board of Trustees has overall responsibility for the supervision and direction of all aspects of SOAS.
Our new 5-year SOAS Strategic Plan was approved by the Board of Trustees in July 2021 and commits SOAS to both student responsiveness and research intensity.
Explore SOAS's full archive of financial statements and annual reviews.
Procurement supports the University in achieving best value for products and services whilst considering environmental, social and economic responsibilities alongside its Net Zero Strategy.
SOAS University of London (‘SOAS’, or ‘the School’) is a chartered higher education institution.
Its Royal Charter, granted in 1916, established the School as a self-governing institution.
The School assumed its current title in 1938.
The Charter and Articles set out the School’s responsibilities and powers.
The Standing Orders and their Annexes are derived from the Charter and Articles.
These detail the terms of reference of Committees and other matters governing the School.
The School is a legally independent corporate body as well as a Charity.
It is a college of the University of London and complies with the University’s Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations .
The School operates effectively as a small and specialist university in its own right, and since 2011 has had the authority to award degrees in its own name.
SOAS, University of London Thornhaugh Street Russell Square London WC1H 0XG
The Charities Act 2006 places an obligation on charities to illustrate how they benefit the public.
SOAS is the only higher education institution in the UK specialising in the study of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
The School is a remarkable institution which uniquely combines language scholarship, disciplinary expertise and regional focus.
Within Europe SOAS has the largest concentration of academic staff concerned with Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
It delivers its charitable objective, the advancement of education, through its teaching and research.
SOAS is committed to promoting global understanding and making a positive impact on the world through research, teaching, and the translation of research into policy.
SOAS has more than 5,000 students on campus from over 130 countries, and 45% of them are from outside the UK.
More than a quarter of the School’s degree programmes offer students the opportunity to spend a year studying in another country, learning from another culture.
The School is structured academically into three faculties, each contributing to the charitable aims of the institution.
SOAS organises and hosts a variety of exhibitions and events relating to Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
The School also organises a range of outreach activities to ensure that students from all backgrounds are encouraged into higher education.
SOAS's Charter (originally granted in 1916) sets out SOAS's system of self-governance.
Standing Orders and Annexes to Standing Orders are approved by the Board of Trustees and operationalise the Charter.
This section links to the web pages of individual School committees, which provide information about the committee's functions, and committee minutes and agendas where available.
This section links to the webpage that includes the School's annual audited financial statements .
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II until her passing in September 2022
Zeinab Badawi
The Rt Hon Sir Anthony Evans QC BA MA LLM
Under the School's Charter and Standing Orders, the Board of Trustees has absolute authority within the School with overall responsibility for the general supervision, direction and control of all aspects of the School.
This section links to minutes of the Board of Trustees meetings and information about its membership.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/executive-board:
Professor Adam Habib is an academic, researcher, activist, administrator, and well-known public intellectual.
A Professor of Political Science, Habib has over 30 years of academic, research and administration expertise, spanning five universities and multiple local and international institutions.
Prior to his appointment as Director of SOAS, he was Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) in Johannesburg, South Africa since 2013.
Under his leadership, Wits did incredibly well – research output has increased, it has expanded its footprint in international journals and it has graduated more students than ever before.
The university’s finances are stable and it has strong, independent governance structures in place.
Habib’s commitment to excellence and transformation has left Wits in a far stronger position, and one of the best universities in Africa at which to study and conduct world-class research.
He joined the University of Johannesburg as the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Research, Innovation, Advancement and Library in 2007, during which time he oversaw a doubling of research output, and the dramatic expansion in the training of a new generation of scholars.
He is one of the co-founders of the African Research Universities Alliance, an affiliation of research-intensive universities on the continent.
Habib has published numerous edited books, book chapters and journal articles over the last three decades in the thematic areas of democratisation and its consolidation in South Africa, contemporary social movements, philanthropy, inequality, giving and its impact on poverty alleviation and development, institutional reform, changing identities and their evolution in the post-apartheid era, and South Africa's role in Africa and beyond.
He is a well-known public figure in South Africa whose opinions are often sought by the media.
Habib’s academic contributions resulted in his election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in addition to serving as a fellow of both the African Academy of Science and the Academy of Science of South Africa.
Habib holds qualifications in Political Science from three universities, including the University of Natal and Wits.
He earned his masters and doctoral qualifications from the Graduate School of the City University of New York.
Professor Joanna Newman MBE FSRA joined SOAS as Deputy Director and Provost in September 2023.
In her role she provides academic and strategic leadership to support the School’s overall strategy and lead on its Education Strategy 2021-26 that sits at the heart of the Strategic Plan 2021.
Prior to joining SOAS, Joanna became the first female Secretary General of the Association of Commonwealth Universities, an international organisation dedicated to building a better world through higher education, with more than 500 member universities in over 50 countries.
In that role she directed the administration of the UK government’s three main international scholarship programmes – Chevening, Commonwealth, and Marshall Scholarships – as well as the multilateral Queen Elizabeth Commonwealth Scholarships.
Her previous roles include serving as the Vice-Principal (International) at King’s College London, where she was instrumental in forging new international research and teaching collaborations; the Director of the UK Higher Education International Unit (now known as Universities UK International), where she led the development of a UK-wide international education strategy; and Head of Higher Education at the British Library.
Joanna serves on a number of boards, including the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network’s Leadership Council, the High-level Advisory Group for Mission 4.7, CARA (the Council for displaced academics) and the QS Global Advisory Committee .
She is a Senior Research Fellow in History at King’s College London and contributes to the MA in transnational History.
Her most recent publication is Nearly the New World: The British West Indies and the Flight from Nazism, 1933-1945 .
In 2014, Joanna was awarded an MBE in recognition of her work promoting British higher education internationally.
Khadir Meer was appointed to the role of Chief Operating Officer and Registrar in July 2021.
In this role, Khadir works with the Board of Trustees as Clerk to the Board and his Executive colleagues in overseeing the governance, strategy implementation, financial and operational management of the University.
A seasoned Chief Operating Officer, Khadir brings to SOAS a long history of public service work and values driven leadership.
Khadir joined SOAS from the London Ambulance Service where as the Chief Operating Officer and Deputy CEO, he led significant organisation wide digitalisation and transformation, alongside meeting the challenges of leading a largest Emergency Ambulance Service in the world through a global pandemic with annual spend of in excess of half a billion pounds.
Prior to the London Ambulance Service, Khadir served for a number of years as the Chief Operating Officer for the National Health Service in London, where he was responsible for discharging statutory responsibilities for the planning, commissioning, and regulatory oversight of all health services for London’s 9 million residents and visitors with an annual spend of in excess of £14b.
Khadir’s leadership approach is values driven with a strong commitment to social justice and public service.
Consequently, removing systemic barriers that inhibit the participation and representation of people of colour in public life is key to how he approaches organisational management and the delivery of strategic objectives.
Professor Laura Hammond is Professor of Development Studies and Co-Director of the Centre of Migration and Diaspora Studies at SOAS.
She has been conducting research on conflict, food security, migration and diasporas in and from the Horn of Africa since the early 1990s.
She lived in Ethiopia from 1993-2000, conducting research and working for the UN Emergencies Unit for Ethiopia (the precursor to UNOCHA).
Among her research activities, she is Co-Director of the Work Package on Poverty and Inequalities for the Migration for Development and Equality (MIDEQ) Research Hub on South-South Migration.
She is Team Leader of the EU Trust Fund’s Research and Evidence Facility on migration and conflict in the Horn of Africa, and Team Leader of the London International Development Centre's Migration Leadership Team.
She has done consultancy for a wide range of development and humanitarian organizations, including UNDP, USAID, Oxfam, Medécins Sans Frontières, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and the World Food Programme.
She is the author of ‘This Place Will Become Home: Refugee Repatriation to Ethiopia’ (Cornell University Press: 2004), editor (with Christopher Cramer and Johan Pottier of Researching Violence in Africa: Ethical and Methodological Challenges [Brill 2011] and several book and journal articles.
Graeme Earl is an archaeologist and digital humanist whose research and educational innovation have had a broad international impact, including on the archaeology of the Mediterranean, East Africa and East Asia.
He has been a visiting professor both at Keio University in Tokyo, focused on interaction design in cultural heritage, and at the Australian National University in Canberra.
He co-directed fieldwork at Portus, the sea port of Rome, and at sites across the Roman Mediterranean and is currently a visiting professor at the University of Cambridge.
His work across the Mediterranean has also involved close collaboration with the British School at Rome.
Graeme has worked with and for creative organisations in broadcast media, architecture, games and immersive technologies, enabling them to draw on the past as inspiration.
For example, as co-director of National Gallery X he enabled a series of artist-led partnerships in creative research and development, with the aim of inspiring new work in and with cultural and creative organisations, through co-production.
Elisa Van Waeyenberge is a development economist with a longstanding interest in the way in which development policy paradigms emerge, including through the influence of International Financial Institutions.
Her work on the rise of private finance in development is recognised internationally.
She has established multiple collaborations with academic and non-academic institutions across Global North and South, while acting as principal and co-investigator on a range of research projects.
These include, among other, a GCRF funded research network on Equalities in Public Private Partnerships, an ESRC funded project on Trajectories of Infrastructure Finance as well as a European funded project on Financialisation, Economy, Society and Sustainable Development.
Justin Smith joined SOAS in March 2022.
As Director of Finance & Procurement he oversees core financial operations, treasury & investments, tax, relations with auditors and regulators, financial planning and budgeting, business partnering, procurement and insurance matters.
Justin originally trained as a geologist, with an MA from Oxford University and an MSc from the University of Toronto, Canada.
He then gained an International MBA at Manchester Business School and was hired in 1992 by Procter & Gamble who trained him as a CIMA-qualified accountant.
Justin is an experienced CFO / Director of Corporate Services, whose career has spanned 20 years in multinational corporations, 10 years in large charities (including FD/CFO of Save the Children UK, and Director of Corporate Services at the Royal College of Physicians), and 2 years (so far) in the UK Higher Education sector with SOAS.
In addition to his functional responsibilities, Justin is a member of the SOAS ED&I Committee, and the Access, Participation and Student Success Steering Group.
He also chairs the Data & Digital Programme Board which plays its part in the delivery of the SOAS IT Strategy.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/soas-vision-and-strategy:
SOAS now has a Strategic Plan in place as the basis for the renewal and revitalisation of the School, and to position SOAS to play a leading role in reimagining higher education globally.
The 5-year SOAS Strategic Plan was approved by the Board of Trustees in July 2021 and commits SOAS to both student responsiveness and research intensity.
The student journey is at the heart of the Strategic Plan, as our students and our thriving alumni community represent a vital part of SOAS’s contribution to and engagement with the global community.
It articulates a vision for a new model of international partnerships which is responsive to the transnational character of our global challenges.
It commits SOAS to ensuring a socially just institutional community in which everyone experiences belonging and is treated with respect.
PDF document, 2.87MB
Supporting plans setting out our Education Strategy and our Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy are being developed and will be added here when finalised.
SOAS has also refreshed its Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for 2021 to 2025.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/financial-information:
PDF document, 5.70MB
The SOAS Ethical Investment and Banking Policy can be found on the Policies and procedures page .
SOAS’s Ethical Investments and Banking Policy is decided on by the Resources and Planning Committee (RPC) and Board of Trustees, which include student and staff representation.
The investment sub-committee keeps the policy under regular review and makes recommendations to the RPC.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/president:
She is one of the best-known broadcast journalists working in the field today.
Her work includes interviewing some of the world’s most notable personalities and politicians on BBC Hardtalk and hosting Global Questions on BBC World TV and the BBC News Channel - a programme which invites audiences from around the world to question their leaders on global issues.
She is also the founder of the production company, Kush Communications, which creates thought provoking programmes and films including the groundbreaking 20-part series ‘The History of Africa with Zeinab Badawi’.
Zeinab is previously Chair of the Royal African Society, and amongst other posts she is a Queen’s appointment to the Board of Historic Royal Palaces, a founding and current trustee of the charitable arm of the BBC - BBC Media Action, a Patron of the United Nations Association UK, and a member of the high level group of the Africa-Europe Foundation.
She serves on the international advisory boards of Afro Barometer and the Mandela Institute for Development Studies and is on the council of the UK Arts, Humanities and Research Council.
Zeinab studied Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Oxford University and took a Masters degree (awarded with a distinction) on Middle East History and Anthropology at SOAS London University.
In 2011 Zeinab was awarded an honorary doctorate by SOAS for her services to international broadcasting.
In August 2018, she was awarded the President's Medal of the British Academy for her contributions to international political journalism and advocacy work for female education.
And in 2020 she received the Sir Brian Urquhart Award from the United Nations Association UK for distinguished service to the UN.
When appointed as President, Zeinab sent the following message to the SOAS community:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/board-trustees:
The overall fiduciaries of the University—the Board of Trustees—create policy, set mission and purpose, and are tasked with building and maintaining a successful organisation.
They ensure good management and adequate resources and they appoint and support the Office of the President.
Lord Dr Michael Hastings of Scarisbrick CBE is Chair of the SOAS Board of Trustees.
Lord Hastings has had a deeply purposeful career across the public, private and non-profit sectors, working within education, philanthropy, justice and commercial business to support and develop communities around the world.
Lord Hastings began his career as a teacher then worked across government agencies on policies to build racial equality, including as a Commissioner with the Commission for Racial Equality for nine years.
He is Chair of the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s Black Business Association and Chair of the Advisory Board of the Black Business Institute.
He was conferred with a CBE (Commander of the British Empire) in 2003 for services to crime reduction; with Peerage to House of Lords in 2005 as an Independent Baron.
He is currently a Vice President at UNICEF UK and a trustee for the Africa Philanthropy Foundation.
Nizam Uddin OBE is Chief Strategy Officer of Algbra, a values-focused and sustainable FinTech headquartered and regulated in the United Kingdom.
Nizam was previously the Senior Head of Mosaic and Community Integration at The Prince’s Trust, where he oversaw the organisation's community cohesion and social integration activities and led Mosaic, an independent Initiative founded by HRH The Prince of Wales to engage diverse Muslim communities across the UK.
Nizam has a strong interest and background in overcoming the societal and economic challenges that prevent disenfranchised and minority communities from fulfilling their potential.
He is a 2019 Greenberg World Fellow at Yale University and a 2019 US State Department International Visitor Leadership Programme (IVLP) participant.
Nizam is currently Vice-Chairman of SOAS, University of London, a Trustee of the Aspen Institute UK and a member of the Mayor of London’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Advisory Group.
He holds an MA in Public Policy from King’s College London and was awarded an OBE in the Queen’s 2020 Birthday Honours list for services to social mobility and community integration.
Professor Jo Beall, currently Emeritus Professor and Distinguished Policy Fellow at LSE, brings vast HE experience having previously worked at University of Natal, University of Sussex, UCL and University of Cape Town.
Jo was also Global Director Education and Cultural Engagement, Executive Board, for the British Council, where she directed one of its three strategic business units, overseeing a global team of education leads and development specialists across 110 countries.
Jo has previously chaired the Board of Trustees of INASP, an Oxford based charity putting 'Research at the Heart of Development'; was Co-Chair of the Advisory Board on the Global Challenge Research Fund for the Arts and Humanities Research Council, UKRI; and is Deputy Chair (Development) of the Anthropology and Development Panel for the Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021).
She has been a member of several professional committees, academic advisory boards and editorial advisory boards.
Richard Millward has been advising management boards on their business plans and financing strategies in the UK, Germany and France for 30 years.
He has supported charities through arts organisations, including the Photographers Gallery and Acme, an arts studio organisation.
A key area of his focus is on improving financial understanding and transparency, to enable members of boards and operational teams to make informed decisions.
He has his own consultancy, Monceau, and is a senior adviser with Rothschild & Co and Bain & Co.
He lectures on restructuring at London Business School.
He studied music at Oxford University and business studies at Harvard Business School.
He is fluent in German.
Jenny joined the NHS as a graduate trainee before becoming a member of the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy and has spent her entire career in NHS finance.
She has worked extensively across all sectors in healthcare, both in commissioning and provider, most recently as Director of Finance at Hillingdon Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Before that she was Acting Director of Finance at Moorfields NHS Foundation Trust.
David Willey is a highly experienced executive with 25 years at main board level in higher education and central government.
Now in active retirement, David has wide experience in strategic leadership, programme delivery, change management and board governance with particular experience in solving complex organisational problems where sensitivity, discretion and political astuteness have been essential.
His primary responsibilities have been for organisational, financial and strategic management including major IT, estates and organisational change project delivery with resource responsibilities up to £120m per year.
David has substantial experience as regional, national and international representative for Bournemouth University, Regent's University London and for Ordnance Survey, building relationships and working in collaboration with partners across higher and further education, local and central government, and commercial business.
Sally Townsend is a chartered accountant who has worked in both the private and the public sector, building effective teams to bring about effective change within an organisation.
Sally has been a Financial Consultant at Jenson Solutions from 2018.
In Sally’s previous roles as Finance Director and Resources Director at Goldsmith University and then Interim CEO at CoSector in 2015, she was responsible for all aspects of financial management and strategy for the College.
She has also developed forward-looking strategies to set clear direction, implemented improvements to systems, processes, reporting and management information and raised the profile of the functions.
Professor Andrew Atherton is Global Director Transnational Education for Navitas Limited, a leading global education provider.
Professor Atherton was Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Dundee which he held from January to November 2019.
During his period as Principal of the University of Dundee, it rose to 4th in the UK for student satisfaction, its highest ever result, and to its highest league table position of 24th in the Sunday Times University Guide and 3rd in Scotland.
During Atherton's tenure the University was also named Student Experience University of the Year by the Sunday Times as a result of its rise in student satisfaction.
Prior to this role, he held academic and directorial positions at the universities of Durham, Lincoln, and Lancaster.
His areas of academic interest are business and entrepreneurship, particularly related to small and medium-sized enterprises and China.
A registered chartered accountant in South Africa and the UK and a Chevening Scholar, Cedric is the Group CEO and co-Founder of Little Ashford, South Africa’s leading and largest privately owned preschool group.
He is a Trustee of the Board at SOAS University of London, Chair of the Board of London Bubble Theatre and a member of the Stowe School Parents Committee.
Cedric, a Deloitte alumnus, has spent many years in Private Equity, in both executive and governance roles, across sub-Saharan Africa and the UK.
He has expertise in early years education management, software and mobile app development, banking and insurance, asset management and performing arts.
Notably, he has held directorships at Transaction Capital Limited (JSE-listed entity with market cap of ~£1.5 billion) where he was a member of the Board, Social and Ethics, and Audit and Risk Committees.
He is a former Chairman of South African Ballet (renamed Joburg Ballet) for almost 10 years, member of the Board at the Railway Safety Regulator for eight years (Audit and Risk and chair of Finance and Procurement committees) and a member of the Audit Committee of South Africa’s largest economic hub.
He’s completing his MBA at the University of Edinburgh and his MA in International Affairs at King’s College London.
Tom Yoritaka is a London-based venture capital investor, supporting emerging companies in fundamental technology sectors in Europe and North America.
He was a corporate executive at global technology companies such as Cisco Systems, Yahoo!
and Microsoft in the US.
He was also a management consultant at The Boston Consulting Group in the US and Asia.
Tom serves on several technology industry boards in the UK and previously served on the Board of Governors of the University of Plymouth.
Yaa Ofori-Ansah is a multi-award winning Founder and CEO of Talking Drums, a sustainable-focused Africa travel company, a Sustainability & ESG Consultant, and member of the SOAS Board.
She has extensive experience working across Development, Trade, Sustainability & ESG and Finance, in organisations across the private, public and non-profit sectors.
Yaa is a SOAS Bachelor of Laws alumnus, and has a Master of Science in Development Studies from LSE.
She has a passion for social impact and community engagement, developing a number of sustainability and social responsibility programmes around tourism, entrepreneurship and employability.
In 2023, Yaa was recognised as a Finalist at the prestigious Black British Business Awards (BBBAwards), for her work at Talking Drums, and a 2022 EMpower Future Leader.
Professor Kersti Börjars has degrees from Uppsala University (Filosofie Kandidat), the University of Leiden (Doctorandus) and a PhD from the University of Manchester.
From 1990 to 1994 she worked as Research Assistant to the Subordination and Complementation group of EUROTYP, a large European typological project.
Since 1994, she has been a member of staff at The University of Manchester, where she was promoted to professor in 2002.
During 2002, she was a visiting professor at Göteborg University, and she is currently Professor II at the University of Oslo.
Steve Pfeiffer is an American lawyer with Norton Rose Fulbright based in Washington, DC, specialising in international business law.
Educated at Wesleyan University in Connecticut, Oxford University (on a Rhodes Scholarship), SOAS and Yale Law School, he also served on active duty as an officer in the United States Navy.
He recently chaired the Board of the Africa-America Institute in New York for 5-years and is currently a director of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the leading civil rights law firm in the US.
He also serves on the Council of the United Nations University.
Joanna’s aim is to:
Joanna serves on a number of boards, including the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network’s Leadership Council, the High-level Advisory Group for Mission 4.7, and CARA (the Council for displaced academics).
Laura Hammond is Pro-Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange and Professor of Development Studies at SOAS.
She is Co-director of the Work Package on Poverty and Inequalities for the Migration for Development and Equality (MIDEQ) Research Hub on South-South Migration.
She has done consultancy for a wide range of development and humanitarian organisations, including UNDP, USAID, Oxfam, Medécins Sans Frontières, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and the World Food Programme.
Emma Crewe is a political anthropologist researching parliaments.
She is the Co-Head of Department of Anthropology and Sociology at SOAS University of London and Chair of the Study of Parliament Group.
Tawnya Cheatheam is the Director of Marketing, Student Recruitment and Admissions at SOAS.
Before joining SOAS in 2019, Tawnya held positions at Kingston University, Regent's University London, and Goldsmith's University of London.
She has over 20 years' experience in higher education spanning the US, the UK and South Korea, spending 9-years teaching at Sangmyung University in Seoul, before coming to the UK to complete an MBA in International Management.
Elisa Van Waeyenberge is a development economist with a longstanding interest in the way in which development policy paradigms emerge, including through the influence of International Financial Institutions.
Her work on the rise of private finance in development is recognised internationally.
She is the Dean of the College of Development, Economics and Finance at SOAS University of London.
Elisa is also a member of Executive Board, and of Resources and Planning Committee.
Lindiwe Dovey is Professor of Film and Screen Studies at SOAS University of London, where she is also the College of Humanities Deputy Dean (Research and Knowledge Exchange) and Chair of the SOAS Research Culture Committee.
She has been on the SOAS faculty since 2007.
Safia Aminah Shaikh is Co-President of Activities & Events for the Student Union, and is studying Migration and Diaspora studies at SOAS University of London.
Ekabali Ghosh is Vice-President of the Research Students’ Associate and a PhD student at SOAS University of London, with a research focus in queer studies and sexuality studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/committees:
Committees play a pivotal role at SOAS, ensuring good governance by steering strategy and overseeing decision making.
Sub-committees streamline the decisions and actions of the Board of Trustees by focusing on specific areas of oversight, strategy and governance.
PDF document, 50.55KB
The Board of Trustees is responsible for the ongoing strategic direction of the University, approval of major developments and the receipt of regular reports from executive officers on the day-to-day operations of the university.
The full list of powers reserved to the Board are set out in the standing orders.
The Board of Trustees normally meets up to five times a year.
The Board of Trustees is supported by several sub-committees which can be observed on the organogram of SOAS committees.
A range of other committees have primary responsibility for ownership of other areas of the University’s operations, which the Board delegates to and receives reports from:
These committees are formally constituted with terms of reference set out in their respective standing orders which can be referenced via the constitutional documents.
The Audit and Risk Committee normally meets four times a year and reports directly to the Board of Trustees.
It is chaired by an external member of the Board and is comprised of external members only.
University officers attend the meetings but are not members.
The Committee is responsible for providing assurance to the Board of Trustees on the effectiveness of the arrangements for risk management, value for money, effectiveness and efficiencies, data quality and internal control at SOAS.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment of external auditors and meeting with them to discuss the nature and scope of the annual audit of the Financial Statements, resultant audit findings and the management letter arising.
The Audit and Risk Committee approves the annual internal audit plan and considers reports arising from those audits.
These reports will highlight any significant internal audit issues, management responses received, and conclusions drawn.
The Executive Board is responsible for the day-to-day management of the university’s affairs, and advises the Vice-Chancellor on planning and strategy, and for leading and coordinating the strategic planning process.
It also considers and prioritises strategic issues, taking account of the resource implications, sets appropriate budgets and approves expenditure, as delegated by the Board of Trustees.
This includes oversight of the risk and financial profiles of the university and regular reviews into the effectiveness of the university’s governance processes and procedures.
The Governance and Nominations Committee advises the Board of Trustees on the appointment and reappointment of individuals as external members of the Board of Trustees and other committees.
In doing so it seeks to maintain an appropriate balance of skills on the Board and ensure that the needs of committees for lay members with specific skills are met.
It approves minor amendments to the university’s procedures for recruiting Trustees and recommends any major changes to these procedures.
It also reviews and recommends changes to the university’s committees’ terms of reference and standing orders to ensure that they accurately reflect the priorities and work of the university’s governance structure.
The Resources and Planning Committee normally meets up to six times a year and reports directly to the Board of Trustees.
It acts on behalf of the Board of Trustees to monitor the finances and use of the university’s resources.
It proposes the University’s annual budgets to the Board of Trustees, examines and (where authorised) approves expenditure proposals, recommends financial forecasts and approves banking and investment arrangements.
It provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the Financial Statements for recommendation to the Board of Trustees, and also reviews and recommends any financial reports to regulators which require Board approval.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for deciding the remuneration and terms and conditions of service for the Senior Executive Managers, including the Vice-Chancellor, and the Deputy Vice-Chancellors.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring severance payments in accordance with the Office of Student Requirements.
The Senate is responsible for advising the Board of Trustees on the strategic development and future direction of the university’s academic activities, as incorporated in the strategic plan and sub-strategies, and to be accountable to the Board of Trustees for the quality arrangements for learning and teaching.
This includes quality assurance and quality assessment measures employed by the university, and matters affecting the academic scope, academic structure and academic standards of the university.
PDF document, 1.00MB

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/policies-and-procedures:
SOAS produces a wide range of policies, procedures, regulations and other essential documents to ensure that the University is effectively managed in accordance with its Charter and Statutes, legal requirements and standards of best practice.
While all policies are primarily aimed at staff and students, the majority have been made publicly available to support transparency and good governance.
To add or revise an existing document, or request alternative formats please email governance@soas.ac.uk .
For information on academic regulations and policies, including assessment, progression, and other study-related matters, please visit the Degree Regulations, Policies and Procedures page.
Information on the governance of SOAS, University of London (School of Oriental and African Studies).
The regulations, policies and procedures that govern SOAS degrees.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/procurement:
The Procurement team at SOAS supports the University to consistently achieve best value for the products and services that it purchases whilst considering its environmental, social and economic responsibilities alongside its Net Zero Strategy.
We are committed to ensuring we procure responsibly.
For more information please see our Sustainable Procurement Objectives (PDF, 112KB) .
We are a proud member of Electronics watch, and actively seek to engage with suppliers who work collaboratively with them to improve workers rights around the world.
SOAS, University of London is not a public body within the meaning of the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 (Directive 2014/24/EU) as amended by the Public Procurement (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 and is therefore not subject to public procurement legislation.
Suppliers are contracted to the University through a competitive process,  or through using tendered framework contracts.
The University does not have an approved supplier list.
If you are interested in supplying goods or services to the University, please email procurement@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS uses Intend for the provision of its Electronic Tendering Portal.
Register to find out more information .
We want to alert you to a fraud scam that is targeting existing and potential suppliers to universities and businesses nationally.
The scam operates in the following way:
Please take the necessary precautions so that you are not a victim of this scam.
Please do not attempt to call any telephone numbers contained within the suspicious emails.
PDF document, 58.49KB

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/information-compliance:
This page provides information and guidance relating to SOAS's compliance with information legislation, including records management.
The Data Protection page covers how to submit a Data Protection request; the School's Data Protection Policy; our Privacy Notices; information about who we share personal data with; how to report a personal data breach; when and how to carry out a Data Protection Impact Assessment; how we use personal data in academic research; and FAQs.
The Freedom of Information page provides guidance on how to submit a Freedom of Information/Environmental Information request; the Freedom of Information Publication Scheme; Freedom of Information and Data Protection appeal procedures; the Freedom of Information Staff Guide; Guidance for committee servicing.
The Records Management page covers our policy, procedures, guidance and advice on how to better manage your electronic and paper records, as well as the retention schedule and guidance on how to dispose of records and identify and manage vital records.
There are also some handy tips on how you can take small steps to improve the way you manage your records.
The Copyright and Intellectual Property page contains guidance on UK copyright law and other IP issues for SOAS staff and students, including how to place material on the Bloomsbury Learning Environment without infringing copyright; copyright and paper course packs; guidance on the School's Copyright Licensing Agency licence; copying which is permitted for educational and teaching purposes under the exceptions in copyright law; copying for disabled people; and copyright guidance for users of the SOAS Library.
The School's Intellectual Property Policy and commercialisation procedures can also be found on this page,
How does information compliance affect your studies?
Or your work?
The Practical Information Compliance page (forthcoming) will be broken into sections for students, academics and administrative staff at SOAS.
If you want to know how copyright and data protection affect your thesis, or what you're allowed to copy for use in teaching, this is the place to start.
For further information on these areas, please contact the Information Compliance Manager at the following address:
Information Compliance Manager Information and Technology Directorate SOAS Thornhaugh Street Russell Square London WC1H 0XG United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/graduation:
Graduation is a special occasion where SOAS celebrates the hard work and success of our graduating students.
All your hard work over the past few years has led up to this.
This is your chance to reflect, showcase and celebrate everything you have achieved and we look forward to sharing this memorable day with you, your family and your friends.
SOAS is excited to be hosting the Summer Graduation Day 2025 at Friends House, Euston, London on Tuesday 2, Wednesday 3 and Thursday 4 September 2025.
Find out how you can book tickets for yourself and guests for your graduation ceremony, gown hire and information on seating.
Everything you need to know about what to do and where to go on Graduation day.
What guests need to know about attending Graduation.
Your next step after graduation.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/graduation/guests:
At SOAS we understand that family and friends are a big part of the graduation ceremony, which is why we want to make sure your day is as exciting and enjoyable as possible.
Here's everything guests need to know about what to do on the day.
Graduation ceremonies are held at Friends House in Euston , with related activities for graduands and their guests (such as ticket collection, gown hire and photography) taking place on the SOAS campus.
The journey from campus to the venue is about a 10-15 minute walk , with SOAS stewards in brightly coloured t-shirts along the way to point you in the right direction.
Friends House is easily accessible by public transport , and is directly opposite Euston overground and underground stations.
It is located within the congestion charging zone with limited parking.
If you or your guests have any seating, mobility or accessibility requirements, please notify us of these requests on the booking form or via email.
Guests are advised to take their seats at least 30 minutes before the ceremony.
Doors will close 15 minutes prior to the start of the ceremony, so please make sure that you are seated by then.
Your seat number will be displayed on your ticket.
It is very important that you sit in the correct seat that has been allocated to you during the ceremony.
If you have any difficulties finding your seat, please talk to a member of the Graduation staff who will be on hand to assist.
Children are very welcome to attend graduation celebrations, however due to the length and formal nature of the ceremony the event may not be appropriate for young children.
A separate guest ticket is required for a child over the age of three who must be supervised throughout.
Due to health and safety restrictions, prams should be left in the complimentary cloakroom.
There is no official dress code for guests, however the ceremony is a formal occasion, and most people choose to dress smartly in accordance with this.
National dress of your home country is very much welcomed.
A manned cloakroom will be available free of charge at Friends House, where you can leave coats, bags and prams.
Please bring minimal bags with you where possible, as the cloakroom has limited capacity.
Please note that large bags, suitcases and prams are not permitted inside the ceremony hall.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/graduation/how-book:
Welcome to your guide to booking your graduation day.
We're here to help you navigate the process smoothly so that on graduation day, you can focus on celebrating your achievement.
Here's you'll find everything you need to know to book your place at SOAS Graduation, but if you have any further questions please don't hesitate to get in touch.
To be eligible to attend graduation, your award should have been confirmed by the School Board.
Students are notified by email when results have been confirmed and released.
If you need to defer your graduation, you will need to submit a request as soon as possible and before the graduation ceremony.
Each request is considered on a case-by-case basis.
Please note that the day and time of an alternative graduation will not be confirmed until registration for the next graduation cycle is open.
To discuss further, please contact ceremony@soas.ac.uk .
If you still have outstanding tuition fees to the University, you will not receive any information for your ceremony.
This does not include any non-tuition fee debts.
Please make sure that you clear any outstanding academic debts at least a week before your results are due to be released.
You will receive registration information, along with instructions on how to register via email ahead of the ceremony.
You’ll be sent an invitation email inviting you to your graduation ceremony along with instructions on how to reserve your place and buy guest tickets.
Each graduand can purchase up to two guest tickets for family and friends who wish to attend the ceremony.
Please note that only graduands can buy tickets.
Because of limited capacity we can only allocate a maximum of two tickets per graduand.
If you're graduating, your ticket is free and includes access to the post-ceremony reception.
Tickets for guests are £35 each and include access to the post-ceremony reception.
You will need to purchase tickets for children aged 3 and over so a seat can be allocated for them.
Children under 3 can attend for free but must sit on their carer’s lap.
You will need to purchase a guest ticket for any children aged 3 years and over so that a seat can be allocated for them.
Please note all children under the age of 12 must be accompanied by an adult other than the graduate.
Academic dress is required for all graduation ceremonies.
To attend graduation, you will need to book your gown in advance once you have registered for your graduation ceremony.
We will inform you of how to book via email.
If you and/or your guest(s) have any mobility or accessibility requirements, please be sure to notify us of these requests on the booking form so we can make any necessary arrangements.
You can email us at ceremony@soas.ac.uk with any questions or requests about the ceremony.
If you or your friends and family require a UK visitor visa for the occasion, please use your official invitation email as part of your application.
Find out more about visiting the UK and how to apply for your Standard Visitor visa at Gov.uk.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/graduation/day:
Your graduation day is a special occasion to celebrate your academic achievements with your friends and family.
Here is a rundown of what to remember and expect on the day so you can focus on what you're there to do - celebrate your achievements and time at SOAS.
Before the day, check the time of your ceremony on your invitation email.
For students graduating this year, we will send confirmation of your graduation date and time.
Please only bring the essential items below with you.
It is important to note that when you are called up to cross the stage you will not be allowed to bring anything with you.
We suggest you bring a small bag if needed which you are comfortable with leaving at your seat whilst you cross the stage, or alternatively, you can leave your items with any guests you may have before you enter the ceremony hall.
You will first go to SOAS campus to collect your tickets and pre-ordered graduation gown.
Make sure to arrive at the campus at least 2-hours before your ceremony starts.
The campus will likely be busy on the day, so it's best to get there early to get everything sorted with time to spare.
You can collect your ticket(s) in the reception of the SOAS Gallery on the day of the ceremony, just bring your student ID and confirmation email.
Collect your pre-ordered graduation gown from the Djam Lecture Theatre on the ground floor of SOAS's main building with a copy of your order confirmation.
You can return your gown to the collection point at any point after the ceremony has finished.
Our official student photographers Ede & Ravenscroft will be available on the ground floor of the main SOAS building.
You can have photographs taken either before or after the ceremony, when you collect your robe or after graduation when you return to the SOAS campus for the post-ceremony reception.
Pre-booking is not essential but is advisable.
You may bring your own camera or video camera to the ceremony, but please be considerate of those sitting around you if photographing or filming during the event.
Once you've got your graduation gown, it's time to make your way to the ceremony, which takes place at the nearby Friends House in Euston .
For guests, Friends House is easily accessible by public transport and is located within the congestion charging zone.
Parking is very limited, so we recommend that you and your guests travel to the venue by public transport where possible.
You can visit the Friends House AccessAble webpage for detailed venue information on accessibility.
Announcements about when you and your guests need to take your seats will be made around 30 minutes before the ceremony begins.
Doors will close 15 minutes prior to the start of your ceremony, so please make sure that you and your guests are seated by then.
The ceremony will last approximately 90 minutes.
Your seat number will be displayed on your ticket - It is very important that you sit in the correct seat that has been allocated to you during the ceremony.
If you have any difficulties finding your seat, please talk to a member of our team who will be on hand to assist During the ceremony, you will be notified by an usher when it is your time to line up and cross the stage.
Once your name is called you will cross the stage.
Certificates are not handed out on stage or collected on the day of Graduation.
Certificates are normally issued 3-months from when a student is conferred.
If you have not received your certificate or have a question, please email ceremony@soas.ac.uk .
Ticket-holding guests are invited alongside our graduates to enjoy a complimentary drink (non-alcoholic options will also be available) and a sweet treat at the Paul Webley Wing of Senate House.
The reception will last approximately 1-hour and will begin immediately after your ceremony concludes.
Unfortunately, it is not possible for guests without a ticket to join you.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/sustainability-soas:
SOAS has committed to becoming a net zero organisation by 2040 – and to achieve this, we are now working towards embedding sustainability in every aspect of our work.
Since becoming the first London university to divest in fossil fuels in 2015, we have been taking steps to create a greener, fairer and just society through our research, learning and teaching as well as our everyday operations.
Our sustainability steering group, chaired and attended by members of the senior executive team, meets regularly to progress our work.
The SOAS Sustainability Policy signed off at Executive Board provides the underpinning for all our sustainability activities at SOAS.
It sets out our policy objectives, the SMART target to achieving time-bound goals as well as the governance and reporting structures.
In line, with Phase 1 of the Net Zero Action Plan Scope 1 and 2 emissions and other fugitive discharges will be reduced by 1,625 tonnes, which is 9.8% of overall emissions footprint by 2030.
Emissions related to travel will be reduced by 60% by 2030 saving 819 tonnes which is 5% of our overall emissions footprint.
This is in line with the Net Zero Action Plan Phase 1 reduction target.
Increase recycling capture rate to 60% by 2030 and reduce overall waste tonnage to 90 tonnes by 2030.
Reduce water consumption by 20% by 2030 and increase greywater capture as supplement.
Capture emissions data for at least 60% of all contracted goods and services by 2030 and save 5,710 tonnes of emissions by 2030, which is 34% of overall emissions footprint.
Ensure 60% of suppliers are reporting the emissions related to their supplies and services to SOAS by 2030.
Utilise at least 30% of available green spaces for (a) growing and cultivating plants that support pollinating organisms and insects, and (b) for allocation to staff and student gardening societies.
Collaborate with at least 3 neighbouring institutions by 2027 on sustainability initiatives on a long term/ongoing basis.
Develop an Education for Sustainable Development Toolkit which maps current provisions and drives an action plan to embed sustainability into a curriculum framework.
Map all SOAS programmes and modules against the UN SDGs to align and highlight the impact of our sustainability-oriented learning and teaching.
Develop and adopt a toolkit for embedding sustainability into learning and teaching, supporting staff across disciplines to embed sustainability into curricula, equipping students with the knowledge, skills and values needed to address global challenges.
Train and develop learning and teaching leads to address sustainability education through their roles.
This Sustainability Strategy covers our institutional commitments for the 5-years from 2025-2030 and to a global sustainable future.
Our Net Zero Strategy - developed in collaboration with the Carbon Trust - sets out the major steps we will take to achieve our net zero ambition by 2040.
Everyday operations at SOAS matter in how we achieve our sustainability goals.
How we heat and power our buildings, how we travel and where we procure our goods and services will help to ensure SOAS plays its part in our greener transition.
Our procurement policy requires those purchasing goods and services on behalf of SOAS to develop sustainable specifications.
We ask suppliers relevant and proportionate questions regarding their commitment to environmental, social, and economic sustainability.
Suppliers for highly relevant contracts, or above set thresholds are also required to sign our Supply Chain of Conduct .
Travel is one of the key areas of emissions which we must reduce as part of our net zero journey.
Therefore, there is a dedicated page dedicated to provide support and guidance on how travelling more sustainably.
We have outlined how we are doing this in our Travel Resource pages (staff and student access) and the Travel Policy (PDF, 126KB) .
SOAS recognises the impact of having a sustainable food culture and practice can have on health and wellbeing, but also on supply chain and the wider value chain.
As an institution focused on addressing pressing global challenges, SOAS acknowledges the profound impact of food systems on climate change, biodiversity, and community well-being.
This is why a Sustainable Food Policy (PDF, 180KB) was developed.
This policy leans on current catering good practice as well as setting a course for continuous improvements.
Our research examines the impact of climate change, particularly in relation to our regions, and seeks to find solutions.
Some of our work includes developing better policies and support around migration and displacement caused by environmental degradation, we offer possible routes towards a greener global economy and show the growth potential in the Global South for a greener energy transition.
Working with the Australian Research Council to examine the ways small farmers identify, conserve and exchange useful plant material.
The research project will provide evidence-based analysis that will help to design policies that will support the scaling up of sustainable investment in the Global South.
Investigating the costs and full benefits of climate adaptation interventions and quantifying the triple dividend of resilience (TDR).
Contributing to the mitigation and adaptation efforts against devastating natural hazards in the Yangtze River Delta region.
Inclusive and sustainable transformation is fundamental in our approach to learning and teaching, across all our disciplines.
Our decolonial outlook to education means that many of our graduates in roles across government, business or development uphold the important principles to bring about positive change but in a sustainable way.
LLM Environmental Law and Sustainable Development programme at SOAS University of London
MSc Global Energy and Climate Policy at SOAS University of London
MSc Environment, Politics and Development at SOAS University of London
MA Anthropology of Global Futures and Sustainability at SOAS University of London
MSc/PGDip/PGCert Sustainable Development (Online) at SOAS University of London
MSc Climate Change and Development (Online) at SOAS University of London
The LLM/MA Environmental Justice in South Asia is an innovative 1-year course located in the Global North and the Global South to explore critical environmental and climate change issues from the South-North perspective while also providing students a rich learning opportunity to engage and learn directly from field exposure.
As a globally networked university, SOAS sustainability efforts extend beyond the borders of our campus.
We engage with a diverse range of partners and networks, collaborating with local communities, civil society groups, industry leaders, NGOs, and governmental organizations.
Doing so helps us to co-produce knowledge and solutions, to amplify our impact and to tackle complex sustainability challenges.
The SOAS Centre for Sustainable Finance (CSF) hosts the Secretariat of The University Network for Strengthening Macrofinancial Resilience to Climate and Environmental Change .
The Network promotes multi-disciplinary academic teaching and research in areas important for strengthening macro-financial resilience to climate change.
The CSF is part of the Global Research Alliance for Sustainable Finance and Investment , a network of leading research universities, as well as the International Network for Sustainable Financial Policy Insights, Research, and Exchange , a global research network that feeds into the work of the Network of Central Banks and Financial Supervisors for Greening the Financial System.
The SOAS Centre for Development, Environment and Policy (CeDEP) coordinates SOAS participation at the annual UN Climate Change COP meetings, to which is has accredited observer status, convening delegations that include both staff and graduate students.
CeDEP also coordinates our participation in the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network, UK Universities Climate Network and Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES).
The SOAS Law, Environment and Development Centre (LEDC) provides a focal point to expand interest in the dynamic relationships between the fields of law, environment and development.
LEDC hosts the SOAS Environmental Law and& Policy Clinic, providing students with opportunities to do clinical work with environmental law NGO partners.
It also coordinates participation in the IUCN WCEL Rights of Nature Task Force.
At SOAS sustainability is everyone’s business.
Staff and students play a crucial role in ensuring we achieve our goals.
Therefore, a Sustainability Communications Strategy was developed to reinforce SOAS University's broader commitments to environmental sustainability, social responsibility, and global engagement, providing a structured approach to communicating sustainability-related initiatives, achievements, and opportunities across the university community.
Follow this link to read more about our Sustainability comms and engagement strategy (PDF, 104KB) .
A recent student-led initiative is one ran by the ‘ Harmony-with-Nature (Word, 19KB) ’ society.
Here are some of the officers working on Sustainability at SOAS:
SOAS holds ISO 14001:2015 certification.
PDF document, 334.34KB
The global fossil industry is rooted in colonialism in its pernicious and relentless pursuit of fuel.
However, there is growing resistance from environmentalist organisations fighting for their livelihoods and communities.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/alumni:
Looking to remain connected to SOAS after completing your studies?
Need support in continuing your personal and professional development?
Your SOAS alumni community is here for you.
Your life-long connection with SOAS extends beyond your final exam; with access to a global network of 75,000 like-minded alumni, careers advice and alumni discounts, there are plenty of ways to access support, get involved and continue learning, no matter where you are in the world.
The quarterly magazine for alumni and friends
Help us advance global knowledge by supporting scholarships.
Donations of all sizes are important and come together to make a huge difference in students’ lives.
Explore the fantastic range of benefits, services and discounts available to our alumni community.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/alumni/alumni-benefits:
As a former student of SOAS, you have access to a range of fantastic benefits, services and discounts – both on and off campus.
SOAS is proud to offer JSTOR access to alumni, providing free access to hundreds of academic journals.
Alumni will have the same access as students and staff, allowing them to view articles online and download or print out PDF files.
Make sure you are signed up to SOAS world, then click the link below to access the e-journals.
SOAS alumni are entitled to free reference and discounted borrowing membership of the SOAS Library , where they can enjoy one of the most extensive collections of academic works on Asia, Africa and the Middle East in the world!
Reference membership is free for alumni and borrowing membership is available at a rate of £100 per year.
We now have a new online system for alumni reference cards and alumni borrowing cards.
Please apply by submitting the required information and a photo .
An online payment will be required for borrowing cards.
A few days after you have submitted the application form, the Library will be in touch, to let you know when your card is ready to be collected at the Library information desk.
You can still access online library resources by registering on our SOASworld website .
Please make sure to opt in to receive our alumni emails.
SOAS alumni can access a range of discounts:
SOAS alumni have life-long access to the careers centre where they can receive one-to-one careers advice and guidance on how to write CVs and cover letters, and prepare for interviews.
SOAS Connect is a free service designed for alumni to give and get guidance on their chosen careers.
You can also mentor current SOAS students.
This could include anything from exchanging a few emails or checking a CV, to arranging a Skype call or meeting face to face.
With SOAS Connect alumni can also reconnect with their old university friends.
SOAS Alumni can receive our quarterly e-newsletters with the latest news from SOAS and the global alumni community, as well as invitations to exclusive events in your area.
Stay up to date with news, networking events, volunteering opportunities and career services.
Isaac Rugamba Rutagwenda graduated from SOAS with an MSc in Public Policy, Finance and Management and is now a Resource Mobilization Manager at the Development Bank of Rwanda.
Learn more about his impressive career to date.
Andrew Mahiga studied MSc in Public Policy & Management at SOAS and is now working as a Director of Policy, Research, Advocacy & Lobbying in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania.
FInd out about his career so far.
You are warmly invited to the next alumni event in Shanghai.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/alumni/request-certificate:
Please read before ordering:
Please order through the SOAS online store , following the product catalogue to University Services.
Please read the guidance before ordering.
All degree awards were made by the University of London.
Certificates were produced and despatched by the University of London Diploma Production Office, who can be contacted by phone on +44 (0)20 7862 8302 or by email at Diploma.Enquiries@london.ac.uk,
All awards are made by SOAS University of London.
Certificates are produced and despatched by an external printing company.
For earlier awards, please consult Awards up to and including July 2013 (University of London).
For awards from December 2013 see below.
Please read the guidance on this page before ordering.
You can order a duplicate certificate at a cost of £40 if:
Please order through the SOAS online store , following the product catalogue to University Services and then select Duplicate certificates.
If you wish to order a duplicate certificate and you want this to be couriered to you by 'Express Delivery' please make sure that you order both 'Duplicate Certificate' and 'Express Delivery' options in the SOAS online store at a total cost of £80.
To request a certified copy of your degree certificate, please send an email to transcripts@soas.ac.uk attaching a scan of your certificate.
Please give clear instructions on how and to whom the certified copy should be returned.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/giving-soas:
When you donate to SOAS, you play a pivotal role in educating future activists and peacemakers, and your contributions directly shape the future of policy, human rights, and global economies.
SOAS is dedicated to the humanities and social sciences, and has a unique focus on the developing world.
Africa, Asia, and the Middle East are not just areas of study at SOAS; they serve as perspectives through which we comprehend the pressing global issues of our era.
We play a vital role as a conduit between Western systems and the Global South.
This exchange between distinct knowledge systems is crucial, considering that the challenges we face today are inherently transnational.
Your donation plays a vital role in supporting our efforts.
Here at SOAS our Advancement team is committed to ensuring your experience as an alum, supporter or friend to the School is the very best it can be.
We invite support for a range of areas and welcome gifts of all sizes.
Thank you for contributing to the development and success of students at SOAS and enabling them to thrive.
As part of our Strategic Plan (PDF, 2.4MB) , SOAS is committed to reimagining itself for the 21st century.
This strategy recognises the Global South not just as subjects of research, but as regions that offer profound insights into the transnational issues that unite us.
There are numerous ways and areas in which your support can make a difference:
By contributing to these efforts, you become an integral part of a community of supporters shaping a better future, fostering global understanding, and empowering the next generation to make a positive impact on the world.
Help us to advance global knowledge through providing scholarships.
Donations of all sizes are important, and come together to make a huge difference in students’ lives.
Our collections continue to develop with every new acquisition and your donations will help us continue to enhance and look after the objects and artworks in our care so they can be shared and enjoyed for years to come.
SOAS is an exempt charity, which means that any gift left to us in your will is free of UK inheritance tax.
Make an impact where it matters most to you and give to support students and priority projects within the Department of your choice.
Your gift to our centres and institutes gives us the freedom to respond to the priorities of our students and staff – and secures the future of education at SOAS.
US-based donors can give tax-efficient gifts to important causes that support educational opportunities for high-achieving students and the research of world-renowned academics.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/giving-soas/advancement:
Advancement at SOAS is a dedicated team of professionals with expertise in Philanthropy, Alumni Engagement, and Advancement Services.
We are passionate about creating opportunities for alumni and supporters of SOAS, as well building philanthropic relationships with companies, trusts and foundations, and other philanthropic organisations, to advance the University’s mission of transforming global understanding, fostering knowledge and searching for innovative solutions to global challenges.
Shona has been leading SOAS’s Advancement team since 2021.
Working closely with the Vice-Chancellor, Shona has strategic oversight of institutional philanthropic priorities and the global alumni engagement strategy.
Since becoming a philanthropy professional in 2008, Shona has worked in a number of higher education institutions with particular expertise in international fundraising, notably Southeast Asia and North America.
She is a member of the Senior Management Team, the Fundraising Advisory Board, and the Ethics Panel for Philanthropic Gifts.
Our Philanthropy team works with donors who support the University and our students.
Working closely with colleges and departments, they forge meaningful partnerships to secure donations through leadership philanthropy, individual giving, trusts, foundations, and corporate alliances.
The team is dedicated to fostering connections, inspiring alumni and friends to champion SOAS's mission and ensuring that donors are acknowledged for, and understand the profound impact of, their generosity.
Suzy joined SOAS in 2018, bringing extensive experience in the charity and higher education sector.
She is the fundraising liaison for the College of Humanities, SOAS Library and Gallery, the SOAS Middle East Institute and Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies.
Working closely with alumni, donors and volunteers in the UK, Asia and Middle East, she is passionate about connecting people and projects together to create impact and transformation.
Ben has been working as a professional fundraiser across higher education and the arts since 2015.
Since joining SOAS in January 2022, he works with supporters at all levels, guiding them in creating transformative and meaningful impact for our students and programmes through philanthropic support.
Ben is the fundraising liaison for the College of Law, Anthropology and Politics as well as the School of History, Religions and Philosophies, and is Secretary to the School’s Fundraising Advisory Board.
He also works closely with our alumni, donors and senior volunteers in the USA.
Our Alumni Engagement Team at SOAS build and enrich relationships with alumni through regular communications and curating a busy calendar of events, including networking opportunities.
As the first point of contact for alumni, we maintain alumni records, and ensure SOAS alumni are connected with the SOAS community through events and communications.
We empower our SOAS alumni to thrive beyond graduation by facilitating life-long connections and opportunities for career excellence and global industry contribution.
Ale joined SOAS in May 2022, bringing a wealth of experience in Operations within higher education.
As part of the Advancement team, Ale manages the Alumni and Fundraising database, which currently holds over 100,000 records.
She oversees the management of gifts and funds, including giving mechanisms, developing tax-efficient giving methods for overseas donors, and advising on HMRC guidelines on Gift Aid.
Additionally, Ale produces tailored reports on philanthropic activities for senior leadership.
Laura joined SOAS in May 2023, and has been working in alumni engagement within higher education since 2021.
Her work at SOAS revitalises the global alumni community by strengthening local alumni networks.
Laura works to support alumni ambassadors around the world, and to develop alumni groups in key regions, with the aim of empowering volunteers to create community spaces where alumni feel valued, supported, and able to advocate for their university.
She organises alumni events around the world to connect the alumni community with academics and members of the Vice Chancellor’s office when travelling.
Haleema joined SOAS in May 2023 and is dedicated to enhancing alumni connections worldwide.
She plays a key role in delivering alumni experiences and supports the Alumni Engagement Manager and Officer in all aspects of alumni engagement, including leading on communication, event management, and network development.
Haleema facilitates international and campus-based events and cultivates relationships with over 95,000 alumni.
Additionally, she ensures effective management of alumni data and supports the Alumni Engagement team in compliance with data protection legislation.
Raquelle joined SOAS in October 2024 and has worked in regular giving fundraising in the higher education sector since 2022.
As the regular giving officer, she has re-engaged our global community of alumni and friends in our philanthropic efforts across the university.
In November 2024, she launched the annual scholarships appeal ‘Giving November’ and in April 2025 delivered an appeal for the SOAS Library.
Raquelle is also responsible for stewarding regular giving donors, introducing quarterly digital impact emails.
The Advancement Services team play a crucial role in supporting our fundraising and alumni networks around the world.
From processing gifts and overseeing the database to conducting rigorous due diligence, they ensure that each contribution supports SOAS's mission effectively.
Working closely with Philanthropy and Regular Giving teams, Advancement Services execute campaigns aimed at securing donations from a broad pool of alumni and supporters, particularly focusing on scholarships and other impactful initiatives that further the University's strategic objectives.
Kelly joined SOAS in January 2023.
Having been in higher education fundraising since 2008, she has worked as a Fundraising Assistant, Prospect Information Analyst and Database Manager.
As Advancement Services Lead, Kelly is responsible for the management of the alumni database, research and due diligence, reporting, and gifts processing.
She works with colleagues in Advancement and across SOAS to ensure that data is managed effectively and appropriately and ensures that colleagues have the tools they need to support data informed decision making.
Ciara joined SOAS In November 2023.
She has extensive experience in fundraising intelligence, prospect research and due diligence.
During the course of her career she has worked in the arts, museums and a range of NGOs both in permanent roles and as a freelance researcher.
Her work at SOAS is particularly focused on enhancing our knowledge of alumni across the globe and looking for new funding streams.
Stay in touch to enjoy alumni benefits and receive regular news and event updates from SOAS, and join a lifelong network of tens of thousands of SOAS alumni spread across the world.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/giving-soas/leave-legacy:
A legacy gift is a very important and personal decision that can go a long way at SOAS whether that's scholarships, academic research or projects such as the maintenance of the library.
A gift in your will can help us continue to educate and train future generations to become critical thinkers, able to investigate the world and shape it for the better.
If you have any questions or would like to speak to somebody confidentially about your intentions, please contact philanthropy@soas.ac.uk .
US-based donors can support important causes that help bring important educational opportunities to high-achieving students and to support the world-renowned academics as tax-efficient gifts.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/giving-soas/library-special-collections-and-soas-gallery:
The SOAS Library is one of the world's most important academic libraries for the study of Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and attracts scholars from all over the world to consult its holdings and further their research.
Our students have access to the SOAS Library, one of the world’s most important academic libraries for the study of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
It is the jewel in the School’s crown.
One of only five UK National Research Libraries, it is the first port of call for research on Africa, Asia and the Middle East attracting scholars worldwide to consult its holdings and further their research.
In total, the Library houses over 1.8 million volumes at the SOAS campus at Russell Square, together with a significant collection of archives, manuscripts, and rare books, an expanding Digital Library and a growing network of electronic resources.
The library’s resources are critical to SOAS’s vision of applying a global lens to the issues of our time, and of understanding the interconnectedness of our world.
We have an inspiring vision and mission to transform access to SOAS and the Library, an internationally significant global learning resource for all.
The library is an academic and cultural asset that demands greater accessibility and utility and houses important treasures that are hidden from view but that should be shared with all.
The SOAS Gallery is a vibrant gallery located in the heart of Bloomsbury, part of the Museum Mile in London that hosts a changing programme of contemporary and historical exhibitions from Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Opened in 1996, it hosts exhibitions and projects by prominent artists, researchers and academics with the aim to present and promote cultures from these regions while being a student resource and public and community facility.
Acting as a bridge between ongoing innovative research taking part at SOAS and external audiences, the gallery champions ongoing work and research within the regions, something unique in the London art scene.
The gallery is also home to the SOAS Collection of over 500 artworks and objects in our care, relating to SOAS’s subjects, areas and regions of study which were given to SOAS, by donors, visiting dignitaries, SOAS staff, alumni and individuals.
Promoting culture and acting as a source of research for the public and students at SOAS alike, is core to our values.
As well as increasing access and reducing barriers for anyone wishing to use the collection is essential to our aim objectives at the SOAS Gallery.
With thanks to the Foyle Foundation, we have a permanent display of ‘Objects of Instruction: Treasures of SOAS’ in the Foyle Special Collections Gallery.
It focuses on the School's remarkably rich but little known collections from across Asia and Africa that are at present known only to a few specialists.
By making a one-time contribution you can help us make a meaningful impact today.
Join our community by making a regular donation, and empower us to create lasting change.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/giving-soas/supporting-scholarships:
Scholarships are essential for ensuring we can bring the best and brightest students to SOAS in an increasingly competitive market and regardless of their financial situation.
Support for students is more important now than ever before.
Using surpluses in recent years, SOAS has invested significantly in our endowment which has grown to £10m, enabling us to extend more financial support to our students.
This, along with support from our alumni and supporter communities, has meant we have awarded more than 450 scholarships in the last decade.
Unrestricted gifts to the scholarship fund give us the freedom to respond to the priorities of our students.
These unrestricted gifts help open the doors of SOAS to exceptional students from around the world.
Scholarships are awarded to individuals who are not only academically outstanding, but who also bring unique perspectives, lived experience, and a passion for creating positive change.
Some awards support students from underrepresented regions or communities; others help attract future leaders in their fields.
Whatever their background, these gifts remove financial barriers so students can fully focus on their studies — and thrive.
SOAS launched the Sanctuary Scholarships Appeal in 2015 to improve access to higher education for asylum seekers and refugees during a climate of increasing hostility toward global migration, the first UK University to pioneer such a scholarship.
The scheme supports displaced students who do not have access to public funds and are unable to access higher education.
It is designed to support those who might otherwise be blocked from embarking on a university degree, especially those with precarious forms of immigration status or who do not have access to Student Finance, and people taking their first steps into Higher Education.
SOAS Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art alumni, Gretchen Welch and Ida Chow, set up the Dr Hettie Elgood Scholarship in 2018 to honour their teacher and friend, Dr Hettie Elgood, MBE, Founder and Director Emerita of the Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art .
They hope that those who study under this scholarship will go on to contribute to the course by lecturing or tutoring in the future, or by promoting the study of Asian art through other platforms.
This is the sixth year the scholarship has been offered, which has been made possible by further donations.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/giving-soas/us-giving:
If you are based in the US, you can make a tax-efficient donation to the Chapel & York US Foundation.
After submitting your information, you will be asked to complete your donation securely via your chosen payment method.
Thank you for your support.
SOAS is a Named Fund member of the Chapel & York US Foundation, Inc.
The Chapel & York US Foundation, Inc.
is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization.
Donations to the Foundation are tax-deductible to the extent allowed by law.
The Chapel & York US Foundation will send you the receipt you need for your tax return.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/giving-soas/your-philanthropy-impact:
Welcome to Your Philanthropy Impact, we have put this together to showcase the great work and achievements made possible by your generous support.
As with many institutions, giving has an important role to play in the life of our university, whether that is supporting teaching, helping our academics undertake important research, or by providing life-changing scholarships and support to our students.
Your Philanthropy Impact reports highlight the transformative achievements made possible through the generous support of our donors.
You will find compelling stories from scholarship awardees as well as insights from donors about the motivation for their ongoing support.
PDF document, 12.92MB
We are extremely grateful for all the support we receive from these generous alumni, friends and philanthropic organisations.
PDF document, 34.32KB
Julia shares her experience moving from the USA to study MA Music at SOAS, thanks to the help of a scholarship.
Meet Keshon and see the life-changing impact of the Sanctuary Scholarship, which supports displaced individuals without access to Student Finance.
Isabelle Le Coutre Mauger shares her story as a first-generation university student at SOAS, showcasing how a scholarship can transform lives and help break down barriers to education.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/visit-soas:
Located in central London, SOAS is one of London’s top universities, with a friendly, cosmopolitan community of students.
Our Bloomsbury campus is a short walk from many of London’s bars, cafes and world-famous social and cultural sights, including the British Museum and the British Library which are just a few minutes away.
Whether traveling by car, bus, train, or foot, there are plenty of ways to get to SOAS.
Find your best option.
Find out what support is in place to make the most of your visit to the SOAS campus.
The Wolfson Gallery is a unique gallery in the SOAS Library that plays host to a number of diverse exhibitions.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research:
Whether at our unique Research Library or working with partners around the world, SOAS researchers work to expand human knowledge and address the global challenges of our time.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/postgraduate-research-degrees/visiting-research-students:
The Visiting Research Student’s scheme is designed for students already embarked on doctoral research with their home university, but who wish to take advantage of the unique resources SOAS has to offer.
It is also available to students proposing to embark on a research degree but who need a period of preparatory study other than is provided by a Master’s programme.
Applicants wishing to undertake supervised research without registering for a degree course are also eligible to apply.
Since Visiting Research Students (VRS) are not registered for a degree programme they are not formally assessed on their work and cannot be awarded a qualification.
Visiting Research Students can enrol for one term, two terms or three terms in one academic year only.
A VRS benefits from most of the privileges enjoyed by the School’s research degree students.
A VRS will:
If the enrolment period includes the summer term (term three) they have the added benefit of continuing enrolment through to the beginning of the next academic year with no additional charge, although there may only be limited access to their supervisor during the summer vacation period.
The VRS programme is not suitable for those wishing to attend SOAS as a visiting academic.
Academic hospitality is generally only available for visiting academics and is not generally offered to visiting students.
The application deadlines for VRS programmes are usually a few weeks before the start of the term you apply for.
We will be confirming the new application deadlines and posting our application form link shortly.
Please remember that applications submitted on the day of the deadline are unlikely to be considered complete in time as an application must include two confidential references and all supporting documents.
See tuition fees for detailed information.
The entry requirements for VRS applicants are the same as they are for MPhil/PhD applicants.
You will need to make your application via our online Visiting Research Student Application form.
Unless you have British or Irish citizenship, you will need to apply for either a Standard Visitor visa or a Student visa for your research visit.
Depending on your nationality, you may need to apply for your visa before before travelling to the UK.
You will need a Standard Visitor visa.
This will allow you to:
You cannot do paid or unpaid work on this visa and you cannot extend your stay in the UK.
Find out more about the documents you will need and application process.
You will need to request a CAS and apply for a Student visa.
This visa will allow you to:
If you need to extend your research visit, you cannot extend your visa from within the UK.
Please note that the Home Office requires SOAS to monitor the attendance of all Student visa holders as part of our sponsor duties .
If you need help with your visa application please read the relevant guides.
Contact the Student Advice Service if you have specific questions about the visa application process.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-anthropology-and-mental-health-research-action:
The Centre for Anthropology and Mental Health Research in Action (CAMHRA) is a globally oriented and locally connected hub for cutting-edge anthropological research, education and public engagement on mental health.
Anthropology is the study of what it is to be human in a complex and changing world.
As societies grapple to respond to the scale and complexity of mental health needs, CAMHRA contributes distinctly anthropological perspectives to a growing global understanding of how societies can understand mental distress and build effective systems of care.
By embedding themselves and ethnographic expertise within psychiatric institutions, anthropologists unlock deep insights into the challenges facing both service users and providers.
This understanding drives meaningful innovations in mental health care, leading to more inclusive and effective approaches.
Explore CAMHRA's hub for anthropological research, education and public engagement on mental health, housed at SOAS University of London
CAMHRA in Conversation is a series of filmed discussions, where members of the Centre for Anthropology and Mental Health Research in Action are joined by partners and collaborators to discuss topics at the heart of CAMHRA’s work.
It covers topics such as how anthropological perspectives can reshape mental health practice and policy, and how the institutional requirements and contexts of mental healthcare services affect both staff and patients.
Join the Centre for Anthropology and Mental Health Research in Action for the Centre’s inaugural lecture by Dr Bhrigupati Singh, with opening remarks from Professor Laura Hammond.
To be the first to hear about CAMHRA events, research, scholarships, vacancies and partnership opportunities, sign up to our mailing list
Working with partners across academia, statutory healthcare, civil society and policy, and alongside services users and people with lived experience, CAMHRA’s work deepens understandings of the varied experiences of mental distress and therapeutic practice.
CAMHRA supports scholars at all stages of their careers to pursue cutting-edge scholarship across the broad field of mental health, in the UK and globally.
The research agenda is set in collaboration with community, policy and academic partners.
We have a  particular focus on widening and deepening the inclusion of people who have been historically excluded from research institutions, including those with lived experience of mental health conditions, service use and care-giving .
Working with a wide range of partners, CAMHRA fosters original theoretical and empirical research through internal accelerator funds, the prestigious Doctoral Scholarship and Postdoctoral Fellowship Programmes, and by supporting external funding bids.
CAMHRA is the premier locus of anthropological research, training and education in mental health and is open to people from a wide range of professional and academic backgrounds.
Courses of study include the MA in Medical Anthropology and Mental H ealt h , specialist MRes and doctoral programmes , and a suite of Continuing Professional Development offerings open to those beyond academia.
Scholarships are available for MA, MRes and doctoral positions.
CAMHRA promotes the use of anthropological methods to improve mental healthcare - a commitment relevant to researchers, but also to healthcare practitioners, clinicians, users and survivors of services, activists and policymakers.
CAMHRA works in dialogue with these stakeholders through a lively calendar of public events, seminar series, lectures and conferences.
Based in London, CAMHRA has a particular mandate to understand and help better meet the complex mental health needs of London’s diverse populations.
To do this, we have a core partnership with Thrive LDN, a public mental health partnership of London’s NHS Trusts, councils, other statutory bodies, and community groups.
Learn about the academic staff who work at and support the centre.
Study at CAMHRA is available at postgraduate, doctoral and postdoctoral levels, and as part of Continuing Professional Development programmes.
We particularly welcome those from groups historically excluded from research, and those with lived experience of mental health services.
Postgraduate study at CAMHRA includes the MRes in Social Anthropology and MA in Medical Anthropology and Mental Health .
The MA is designed to help mental health practitioners, activists, policymakers and others working in relevant fields to develop anthropological skills in understanding mental distress and designing care solutions.
Applications for Master's Scholarships to study at CAMHRA open annually in the spring and are currently open until 30 April 2025 .
Members of the CAMHRA team will share information about the MA Medical Anthropology and Mental Health and how to build a strong application to the CAMHRA Master’s Scholarships.
Join us on Thursday 3 April 2025 at 1:00pm London time (BST/GMT +1) .
PhD candidates can conduct their doctoral research within CAMHRA as part of the doctoral programme within the SOAS Department of Anthropology and Sociology, and have the option to receive specialist training through the Centre’s partnership with the Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust, and its practitioner researchers.
Applications open annually in the autumn, with the opportunity to apply for a fully-funded place through CAMHRA’s Doctoral Scholarships .
CAMHRA’s prestigious Postdoctoral Fellowship Programmes appoint a number of internally-funded postdoctoral scholars each year.
These include the 1-year CAMHRA Career Development Research Fellowship, and the 3-year CAMHRA Research Fellowship.
Applications open annually in autumn and will be advertised on the SOAS vacancies page .
CAMHRA welcomes applications from postdoctoral scholars who wish to develop externally-funded projects within CAMHRA (with the British Academy, Wellcome Trust or others).
Please get in touch 4-6 months before the funding deadline to allow ample time to develop your proposal.
Unfortunately we are unable to host co- funded Levehulme postdoctoral fellowships.
From 2025, applications will be reviewed annually in June.
CAMHRA’s CPD offerings are for mental health professionals, policy and university executives and others looking to broaden cultural understanding of mental health and ethnographic methodologies.
MA Medical Anthropology and Mental Health at SOAS University of London
MRes Social Anthropology at SOAS University of London
CAMHRA welcomes collaborations with academic and non-academic partners.
If you are interested in collaborating with CAMHRA, you can get in touch by sending an email to camhra@soas.ac.uk
Professor David Mosse is a professor of Social Anthropology at SOAS, and Director of the Centre for Anthropology and Mental Health Research in Action (CAMHRA).
Nikita is a Reader in Anthropology, and the Co-Director of the Centre for Anthropology and Mental Health Research in Action (CAMHRA).
She researches and provides policy advisory on mental health, care, and inequality.
Funding for CAMHRA involves an initial investment from UKRI Research England’s Expanding Excellence in England Fund which identifies research units recognised as excellent and having the potential to grow.
Funding will run for 5-years, commencing from the 2024-2025 academic year, to establish a sustainable increase in mental health research capacity.
The Department of Anthropology and Sociology grapples with the theory and practice of real-world issues such as migration, race, gender, climate change, and social justice.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-creative-industries-media-and-screen-studies:
The Centre for Creative Industries, Media and Screen Studies is an interdisciplinary research centre that focuses on the dynamic relationships among cultural production, aesthetics, ethics and cultural economies in local and global contexts, with a particular focus on film and screen cultures.
Our approach combines an interest in analysing the creative texts and contexts of media with an emphasis on stimulating productive dialogue among theorists, practitioners and artistic researchers.
We combine a sensitivity to the specific conditions of cultural production in Africa, Asia and the Middle East and among their diasporas with the desire to explore the consequences of the global reach of art, media and culture in our digital era.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-gender-studies:
The Centre for Gender Studies at SOAS is an interdisciplinary space promoting research and teaching on gender and sexuality with particular reference to Asia, Africa, the Middle East and their diasporas.
Since its inception in 2005, CGS has become a hub of research and training working to support anti-racist feminisms and social movements challenging normative constructions of gender and sexuality.
Our focus on Asia, Africa and the Middle East productively disrupts the teleologies of 'Western' feminism and our critical study of Europe and its 'others' has earned us a reputation as a vivid centre for queer and trans thought, transnational feminisms, critical legal theory and anti-racist knowledge production.
Grappling with the legacy of SOAS as a training ground for the administrators of Anglophone Empires, at CGS we not only tackle the long complex entanglements of modern feminisms with white imperialism and postcolonial nationalisms, we also incubate new strategies to decolonise feminist scholarship and praxis.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-global-media-and-communications:
The Centre for Global Media and Communication (CGMC) at SOAS is an interdisciplinary space for research and teaching on communication, digital media, politics and cultures with a focus on Asia, Africa and the Middle East and their diasporas.
Since its inception in 2003, CGMC has become a hub for research and training in non-Western centric critical media and communication theories and methodologies through consistent reframing and rethinking of the epistemologies and practices that have defined the broad field of critical media and communication studies.
Through our research and inclusive teaching, we offer spaces for critiquing the persistence of hegemonic approaches and for producing non-Eurocentric epistemologies and methodologies.
CGMC offers postgraduate education for the next generation of change makers with new visions for de-colonial futures.
Our programmes, the MA Global Media and Communications, the MA Media in Development and the MA Global Media and Digital Cultures (online) bring together students from various disciplinary backgrounds and professional experiences mainly from Asia, Africa and the Middle East as well as from the UK, Europe and the US.
The interdisciplinary study of global media and communication at SOAS is reflected in the expanding doctoral research at the Centre for Global Media and Communication.
Our research students use interdisciplinary approaches and methods for the study of an exceptionally wide range of topics, both theoretical and empirical, on issues related to global and digital media, political communication and cultures, with a particular focus on Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
The centre pays particular attention to doctoral students’ acquisition of critical theoretical skills and in-depth regional, linguistic and cultural knowledge of diverse communication forms and practices.
We specialise in the critical analysis of media industries and systems, their contents and their audiences in Asia, Africa, the Middle East and their diasporas, an approach equally well-suited to research on Latin American, East European and mainstream ‘Western' media.
We encourage research aimed at de-colonising global media studies through grounded theory and methodological research.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-human-rights-law:
Building on SOAS’s unique focus and experience, it seeks to advance research and the teaching of human rights law and related areas with particular reference to Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
The centre aspires to act as a forum for debate on human rights law and developments of interest in the field for staff and students within SOAS, for scholars and practitioners from other institutions and for organisations and for the general public.
Reflecting the multitude of actors and dynamic nature of the field of human rights law, the centre is committed to promoting cooperation between academics and practitioners worldwide.
This includes working closely with the SOAS International Human Rights Clinic and encouraging and facilitating students’ engagement and research projects with NGOs and practitioners in the field.
The Centre for Human Rights Law provides students and researchers with the opportunity to consider today’s most pressing human rights issues from the perspective of scholars and activists in the Global South, and participate in legal processes that support social change.
The centre has been engaging in standard setting and policy making processes concerning the protection of human rights, with a particular focus on issues and areas forming the subject of its members' expertise and research interests.
Encouraging an engaged critical consciousness that reflects on and works within the trans-national intersection of law, rights and social justice.
Reports, research projects and submissions from the Centre for Human Rights Law.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-international-studies-and-diplomacy:
The Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) is committed to the promotion of excellence in teaching, scholarship and research.
Since its founding in 2000, the centre has become a premier space offering interdisciplinary and vocationally-oriented postgraduate teaching and training in global diplomacy and policy.
Embedded in the Department of Politics and International Studies and drawing on the distinctive regional expertise across SOAS, our teaching, research and knowledge exchange activities look beyond traditional Western-centric approaches.
The centre is home to the MA International Studies and Diplomacy .
This on-campus degree is designed for cross-disciplinary learning and combines an understanding of key concepts, theories and debates with effective practical skills training and a range of extra-curricular activities.
The centre also offers a suite of postgraduate online programmes, such as the MA Global Diplomacy (Online) .
Through its members and associates, the centre is linked to a number of research projects.
Postgraduate students are encouraged to engage with those projects, whether by taking part in events, as research assistants, or by writing their dissertation on a topic linked to those areas.
Through the Department of International Politics and International Studies, the centre is also linked to a rich and varied programme of conferences, lectures and other public events, which bring together academics, practitioners and students from around the world.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-jewish-studies:
The Centre for Jewish Studies at SOAS was established in the 1990s and is currently situated in the Department of Near and Middle East Studies in the Faculty of Language and Culture.
It is committed to the promotion of Jewish and Israeli Studies through scholarship, teaching, book launches, workshops, public events, conferences and symposia, debate and discussion.
The centre seeks to research and to communicate the richness of the Jewish experience and thereby raise the profile of Jewish and Israeli Studies at SOAS.
There are close ties with professional academic bodies such as the British Association for Jewish Studies and the Association of Israel Studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-law-and-social-change:
The CLSC is a place for projects encouraging interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral and intergenerational collaboration, with a focus on progressive social change and a commitment to active anti-racist, feminist, and decolonial practice.
In all areas of life scholars, practitioners and social movements seek to generate positive change through, with and despite law.
Students with a commitment to social justice and human rights seek careers in law with the hope of defending the rights and interests of the vulnerable as against their oppressors.
At the same time, both the limits of law’s emancipatory potential, as well as the historical role of law in structuring global imperialism, and present inequality and oppression, have been noted and examined by critical legal scholars and practitioners alike, and experienced by billions around the world.
The limits of, and obstacles to legal reform have been identified in various areas and, for example the potentials of accountability litigation are regularly explored, be it in areas such as universal jurisdiction or business and human rights.
If law is to play a role in the transition to a fairer, more equal world it is clear that the ways, instances and methods for legal intervention require deeply engaged deliberation from all angles and contexts.
Conversely, social movement actors in an increasingly authoritarian world may be forced to defend themselves within or against oppressive legal systems, and we need the formal and informal infrastructure, expertise and skills to do so effectively.
Ultimately, the discussion of, and struggle for, abolition, and realising the transformations we so desperately need in the world are gaining ground and power, each time we make true the phrase "we keep us safe".
At SOAS, one of our focal points for learning and organising starting in 2024 will be 'the construction of the gendered, racialised and sexual legal subject in the colonial encounter'.
Liked to this are our events about the abolitionist ethics of femmeness (Trans Femme Futures) as well as a Spring workshop Another is, 'the internal colony'.
The latter notion draws on the work of Nadine El-Enany in (B)ordering Britain, where she shows how Britain's colonial racial violence 'boomeranged' back to the British metropole, where the state's institutions become the enforcers of the colony within, with racist state violence now being the norm to uphold white supremacy 'at home'.
Linked to this is our 'know your rights' student co-production project.
Finally, following a very successful first edition in May 2024, we are organising another "Law & Marxism Spring School" in May 2025.
The Centre was established in 2020 at The City Law School and has a track record of radical boundary pushing projects and events, engaging a host of brilliant students, scholars, authors and organisers from around the world.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-migration-and-diaspora-studies:
The centre aims to foster and promote a supportive research and teaching environment for scholars concerned with issues of migration and diaspora, drawing on the skills and expertise of academics situated in disciplines such as anthropology, history, development studies, politics, religion, music and art history.
The centre covers not only the traditional SOAS heartlands of Asia and Africa, but also issues of migration and diaspora in Europe, the Americas and the Caribbean.
Since its inception in 1916, SOAS has built a worldwide reputation for its specialisation in regional scholarship, establishing a long tradition of research which is inherently transnational in character.
Through the years, SOAS has built on this strength, and the school has attracted a growing number of academics from a variety of disciplines with interests in issues of transnationality, migration and diaspora.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-sustainable-finance:
The SOAS Centre for Sustainable Finance aims to advance the transition to an equitable, low-carbon economy by providing a forum for interdisciplinary research and teaching on sustainable finance and investment.
Since 2019, it has provided a forum for interdisciplinary research and teaching on sustainable finance and investment with academics, senior fellows and professors of practice representing some of the world’s leading thinkers and practitioners on these issues.
Located in the SOAS Department of Economics , the centre seeks to enhance knowledge and understanding of sustainable finance in both the Global North and South and act as a focal point for policy debates in this area.
Centre members are working with and funded by national and international partners.
Members of the SOAS Centre for Sustainable Finance have helped numerous central banks and financial supervisors (including in Albania, Argentina, Brazil, Cambodia, China, the EU, India, Indonesia, Japan, the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand and the UK) in developing climate stress tests, disclosure frameworks and sustainable finance strategies.
The Centre has been a pioneer and leader in capacity building among central banks and financial supervisors.
Centre members have also convened major capacity building and executive training programmes in sustainable finance and climate risk for international organisations and commercial financial institutions.
Centre members have also convened courses in climate negotiations, climate finance and sustainable finance for the UK FCDO and the UK Cabinet Office.
As part of its commitment to educating the next generation of sustainable finance scholars and practitioners, the centre runs a master’s course on Green Finance .
The centre’s research and policy work addresses pressing issues, including:
The Centre for Sustainable Finance hosts the Secretariat of The University Network for Strengthening Macrofinancial Resilience to Climate and Environmental Change .
The Network promotes multi-disciplinary academic teaching and research in areas important for strengthening macrofinancial resilience to climate change.
The Network consists of global universities that seek to build capacities to carry out relevant high-quality teaching and research, and acts as a strategic and knowledge partner of major international organisations working in this field.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-sustainable-structural-transformation:
The SOAS Centre for Sustainable Structural Transformation (CSST) reimagines and promotes structural transformation in an age of ecological and social crises through industrial policy that is long-term-oriented and frame-shifting.
By acting as an action-oriented hub for research, learning and policy for the Global South, especially Africa, CSST conducts path-breaking research on structural transformation, industrial dynamics, and economic diversification strategies and on how to make them environmentally and socially sustainable.
Going beyond research silos, CSST advances an integrated framework focusing on four inter-linked research and industrial policy areas: energy transition, critical minerals, restructuring of supply chains, and construction of new infrastructure.
CSST conducts research in these areas through deep dives into countries and sectors, with a view to unlocking sector-specific binding constrains and promoting linkages across sectors.
CSST’s research will be rooted in the understanding of national and international political economy, trends in industrial and technological changes, and the constant changes in business models.
The Centre was set up in 2024 with a significant donation from the Hyundai Motor Group.
Picture by Scott Webb via Unsplash.
This research stream approaches the issue of energy transition in Africa from a perspective in which energy and industry are fully integrated and looks for feasible opportunities to realise green industrialisation in Africa.
Key focuses of this research stream are the opportunities offered by Green Hydrogen and the analysis of the growth potential for energy business in Africa.
This research stream focuses on how African economies should manage the relationships with international mining companies in a way that promotes socio-economic development.
In particular, it investigates how industrial policy can be used in order to develop new sectors that are related to mining, such as mineral processing, mining equipment, batteries, and energy storage.
This research stream focuses on the emerging new geography of production and the extent to which this re-organisation will open or close opportunities for sustainable structural transformation in Africa.
A key focus of the research is on how supply networks should – and can – be re-organised and developed for development of mobility- and energy-related industries in Africa.
This research stream focuses on both the demand opportunities, which a new built environment offer for sustainable industrialisation, and on the forms of sustainable spatial planning that are fit for African countries.
A key focus of this research stream is the analysis of how government and private sector can cooperate with each other in building the infrastructure for sustainable energy system and mobility system.
This research stream focuses on how governments can reshape industries and create markets, coordinate activities between relevant economic actors, build productive coalitions, and, through all these, direct the economy towards sustainable prosperity.
A key focus of this research is the analysis of how Reciprocal Control and Commitment Mechanisms (RCCMs) – with their conditionalities, performance standards and discipling mechanisms – should be used in order to increase the effectiveness and the transformative impact of industrial policy.
This research streams focuses on understanding why and how new business models are emerging and the extent to which innovation in business models, including in the area of venture capital investments, can promote sustainable structural transformation in Africa.
The research will look at both the indigenous innovation in business models, represented by diversified business groups and other emerging businesses, as well as the ways in which large international corporations are approaching investments in the continent.
This research stream focuses on understanding how the functioning and composition of venture capital funds impact the outcome of the VC-backed companies before their exits.
It will examine aspects such as innovation, new market creation, and restructuring broken verticals while identifying the barriers and drivers contributing to successful tech startup exits in African countries.
Additionally, this research will look at the decision-making processes of venture capitalists in supporting value generation within the industrial ecosystem, as well as the key factors that define successful unicorns in Africa, which are essential for fostering a robust entrepreneurial ecosystem on the continent.
CSST has secured 5-year funding from Hyundai Motor Group (HMG) , to support its core team.
The Centre has also secured funding from HMG to conduct contract research in its core research streams.
CSST will also collaborate with the HMG Business Intelligence Institute in strategic research areas of common interest, including exchanging and hosting visiting researchers.
CSST has secured a 2-year donation from TLCOM Capital to support research on the drivers of value generation in the African Venture Capital Industry.
CSST will also collaborate with TLCOM Capital, a leading venture capital firm with a significant portfolio in Africa.
Through this collaboration, CSST will be able to access data and case studies on specific markets and verticals and leverage industry expertise.
CSST works with Gatsby Africa in capacity building and the development of a sectoral identification methodology for productive investments, with a focus on Tanzania and the broader Eastern Africa Community (specifically, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-buddhist-studies:
The Centre of Buddhist Studies’ key mission is to be a catalyst for learning, research and outreach on Buddhism in Asian societies and globally, past and present.
The SOAS Centre of Buddhist Studies (CBS) is a hub of distinguished Buddhist scholarship that generates synergy among academics and research students, from SOAS and beyond, involved in the study of Buddhism in Asian societies.
It is composed of 17 permanent members of staff and emeriti, as well as a pool of associate and graduate student members from SOAS and other UK institutions.
This not only brings energy and new ideas, it also enables new audiences to appreciate and understand some of the cutting-edge research currently carried out on Buddhism.
Explore past lectures hosted by the SOAS Centre of Buddhist Studies.
Join our centre newsletter and get all the latest news, events and updates mailed to your inbox.
The scholarships and prizes listed are not limited to students of Buddhism at SOAS, but they fall within the category of grants for which all students of Buddhism at SOAS can apply and compete for along with students studying other disciplines and religions.
SOAS offers several scholarships and prizes, and administers certain grants sponsored by other external bodies.
A number of scholarships is also provided by the University of London, the British Government, and other scholarship agencies.
The Khyentse Foundation, as part of its continued support of the study and academic research on Buddhism, has partnered with the SOAS Centre of Buddhist Studies to award an outstanding dissertation on the subject, written by a SOAS Postgraduate student.
Once a year, outstanding MA dissertations, MPhil/PhD chapters, or research articles can be nominated by SOAS staff members.
Upon examination of the writing sample by the Centre of Buddhist Studies' managing committee, the winner will be awarded a prize of £1,300.
Postgraduate additional awards for fieldwork.
Approximately twenty five awards are offered to provide some financial support to SOAS-registered postgraduate students to conduct MPhil/PhD fieldwork abroad.
These awards do not cover conference attendance and are not offered more than once during an MPhil/PhD studentship.
Normally these awards do not cover more than the price of a budget return airfare.
Research Student Fellowship.
Some nine student fellowships are offered for postgraduate research to students registered full-time for a research degree.
The value of this fellowship is the remittance of tuition fees at UK/EU rates and annual bursary of approximately £9,350.
For students paying the overseas tuition fee, the remaining tuition fees payable are deducted from the bursary award.
However, Overseas fee payers are recommended to apply for an ORS award, which meets the difference between the higher and lower fees.
Bursaries.
Approximately eight Bursaries are offered to students who propose to register full-time for Taught Masters courses at the School.
The current value of the Bursaries is just over seven thousand per annum; the Bursary does not carry remission of tuition fees.
Candidates must possess a good honours degree from a UK university or equivalent qualification, although not necessarily in a branch of Oriental or African studies.
Further details on these Scholarships can be found on the Scholarship pages .
Taught Masters Prizes.
Four Prizes are awarded to those finalists who, in the opinion of the Scholarships Committee, have most distinguished themselves in all elements of the examination for the Taught Masters degree.
The Prize takes the form of a cheque.
Frederick Richter Memorial Prizes.
There are three Frederick Richter Memo-rial Prizes: two undergraduate prizes and one postgraduate prize.
This prize is awarded for the most meritorious work done by a university student during the year in the field of Oriental art, literature or music.
The prize takes the form of a cheque.
Overseas Research Students Awards Scheme (ORS).
These awards are available to students intending to commence a full-time research degree, and to students who are in their first year of full-time research degree study at the School.
These awards are available only to students who are liable to pay tuition fees at the rate for international students.
Felix scholarship is offered to students registered for a Masters or research (MPhil/PhD) degree.
It is available only to Indian citizens under age of 30, who have at least a first class honours degree from an India university.
Students with degrees from universities outside India do not qualify.
For PhD students and Postdoctoral Fellows for research on a wide range of topics relating to Buddhism.
The Foundation offers five global competitions to support research and teaching.
There are no restrictions as to the location of work proposed, or the citizenship/residence of applicants.
The final products of research supported may be in any language.
Although the final products of research can be in any language, all applications must be submitted in English.
Stefania Travagnin is Reader in Chinese Buddhism at SOAS University of London, where she is also Chair of the Centre of Buddhist Studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-islamic-studies:
The Centre of Islamic Studies, SOAS was established in 1995 and aims to promote scholarship and research in all areas of Islamic Studies, past and present.
The study of the Qur’an and Hadith from the Arabic texts, and the analysis and translation of Islamic texts from Arabic into English form the core activities of the centre.
It also deals with Islamic thought in European, African and Asian languages and promotes the study of Islamic culture and relations between Muslims and the wider world.
The centre runs an MA Islamic Studies programme and encourages the study and understanding of Islam by means of lectures, seminars, conferences and publications.
It also provides academic links and exchanges between institutions and scholars of Islam in Muslim countries, Europe and the rest of the world.
The centre has an active research programme, and a number of doctorate and MPhil degree students.
Students benefit from our staff's wide-ranging expertise within the field of Islamic Studies, and our commitment to the creation of a supportive research environment.
Theses recently completed or in their final stages include:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-south-east-asian-studies:
The Centre of South East Asian Studies (CSEAS) exists to stimulate a lively research culture concerned with South East Asian issues.
Our seminars and events promote interdisciplinary study, research and discussion, and disseminate a wider awareness of the region.
The Centre acts as a forum for the University of London as a whole, and for South East Asianists in the universities of southern Britain.
We work closely with ASEASUK and EUROSEAS , have special relations with universities in South East Asia, and are a member of the European Alliance of Asian Studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-taiwan-studies:
Since the establishment of the Taiwan Studies Programme in 1999, the School of Oriental and African Studies has become one of the leading centres for Taiwan Studies in the world.
We now offer the only MA in Taiwan Studies outside of Taiwan.
It provides an unrivalled programme of advanced interdisciplinary courses on Taiwan's society, culture, politics, language and economics.
We also run short courses on Taiwan at the Summer School and at other European universities.
The School has also become one of the most important centres for Taiwan Studies academic events in the world.
During term time we hold regular public seminars, in which scholars working on Taiwan present their research.
We founded the annual European Association of Taiwan Studies conference in 2004.
This is held at a different European country each year and is the largest such event in Europe.
In addition, we host at least one international Taiwan Studies conference a year.
We support PhD research on Taiwan supervision in a wide range of disciplines.
The Centre’s contribution to the development of European Taiwan Studies was recognised by the award of the French Taiwan Culture Prize in 2008 .
Furthermore, in October 2012 Professor Robert Ash, Founder of the Centre of Taiwan Studies at SOAS, was awarded the Friendship Medal of Diplomacy by the Government of the Republic of China, Taiwan.
The award recognises Professor Ash’s efforts in promoting the academic study of Taiwan in the UK and Europe.
The Taiwan Studies Programme at SOAS offers the widest range of interdisciplinary taught courses on Contemporary Taiwan.
We now offer courses on Taiwan politics, film, economics, society, culture and language as part of our MA in Taiwan Studies.
This degree is the first of its kind to be offered in Europe, the United States or elsewhere in the English-speaking world.
The courses are also available to students taking the following MA or MSc degrees: Pacific Asian Studies, Asian Politics, Chinese Studies, Politics of China, Japanese Studies, Development Studies, and International Studies and Diplomacy.
The European Association of Taiwan Studies (EATS) was established at SOAS in 2004 with the objective of developing Taiwan studies not only in the UK, but also in other European countries.
By holding regular conferences, we aim to increase the interaction between European based researchers working in Taiwan studies and to raise the profile of Taiwan Studies in Europe.
The EATS Conference is held at a different European country each year and has now become the largest Taiwan Studies academic event in Europe.
Conferences have been held in the UK, Germany, France, Sweden, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Cyprus and Spain.
EATS is now an independent legally registered association managed by an international committee.
The Association has been instrumental in the rapid development of Taiwan Studies research, teaching and publication over the last decade.
For the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the European Association of Taiwan Studies (EATS), the 2023 EATS conference comes back to its ‘birthplace’ – SOAS, University of London – to celebrate, examine, reflect and encourage the development of Taiwan Studies as a growing academic field.
The European Association of Taiwan Studies has been supported by the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation.
For up to date information about the European Association of Taiwan Studies and its annual conferences from 2011, please see its new website at eats-taiwan.eu .
In the scholarship on contemporary Taiwan studies, some areas such as national identity, cross-Strait relations and democratisation have received extensive academic interest.
However, one area that we feel needs greater academic attention concerns the study of Taiwan’s indigenous peoples.
Though there has been high quality research on this subject, much of the literature has been historical, and issues related to modern Taiwan have been less well covered.
For this reason, SOAS Centre of Taiwan Studies is currently conducting a research project funded by the Shung Ye Museum of Formosan Aborigines , with the aim of establishing a Taiwan indigenous teaching programme and producing an English language textbook that can inform wider audiences about Taiwan’s indigenous peoples.
A series of lectures on Taiwan's indigenous peoples have been held in 2018 and 2019.
Renowned scholars from all over the world as well as brilliant research students working in this field were invited to take part in this project and give a talk on their recent research at SOAS Centre of Taiwan Studies.
These lectures engage with variety of topics related to Taiwan's indigenous peoples.
All these events are free to attend and open to members of the public without prior registration.
A number of topics have been covered in this project:
The Shung Ye Museum of Formosan Aborigines was founded in 1994 as a specialist museum for the display of artefacts pertaining to the Taiwan indigenous peoples.
Originally established on the basis of donations by its founder and Chairman, Safe C.F.
Lin, the Museum has over the years developed into an organisation that seeks to celebrate, through research and preservation, the uniqueness of the Taiwan indigenous cultures.
On November 4 the new Taiwan Resource Centre for Chinese Studies (TRCCS) was inaugurated at the SOAS Library.
This is a collaborative project between Taiwan’s National Central Library , the SOAS Library, and the SOAS Centre of Taiwan Studies.
The cooperation agreement was signed by the SOAS Pro-Director Professor Nirmala Rao and the Director General of Taiwan’s National Central Library Dr.
Tseng Shu-hsien.
The TRCCS holds an initial donation of over 800 books and DVDs published in Taiwan.
These publications are closely related to the courses on the SOAS Taiwan Studies teaching programmes , particularly Taiwan’s politics and cross-Strait Relations , Society & Culture in Taiwan , modern history, Economic Development of Modern Taiwan, languages , and Taiwan film studies .
In addition, the TRCCS will offer a range of databases for Taiwan and Chinese studies.
The latest addition is the United Daily News database, which allows search and full text access to news reports going back to the 1950s.
In the future the National Central Library will then offer an annual large scale book donation and a wide range of database access to SOAS library users.
These additional databases are available via the National Central Library’s TRCCS page.
The SOAS TRCCS is designed to support the study and research environment for those in Taiwan and Chinese Studies and will be particularly valuable for students’ wishing to incorporate Chinese language material into their dissertation research.
Over the past 30 years Taiwan film has had an outstanding record of achievement at major film festivals, particularly those in Europe.
To factor in this enormous triumph SOAS has offered a course on Taiwan film since 2005 – a course that has been tremendously popular with students.
The value of Taiwan’s films and documentaries goes beyond their artistic quality, for they also offer a key platform for understanding modern Taiwan.
This has been the prime motivation behind this new project.
Its goal: to facilitate regular screenings of Taiwanese films and documentaries.
Each screening will feature a follow-up Q&A session with invited film makers, actors, or film scholars and critics.
The films will be chosen to integrate closely with existing Taiwan courses at SOAS and the regular Taiwan Studies Seminars.
The films shown will reflect key themes, such as important trends in Taiwan’s history, social, economic and political change, cross-Strait and international relations, and cultural development.
We already supplement our teaching with reference to clips from Taiwanese films and documentaries, but regular screenings of films and the opportunity to question and directly interact with film makers and specialists will greatly enhance students’ understanding of contemporary Taiwan.
We also intend that these screenings will be organised in close cooperation with the Taiwan Academy in London, which will be inaugurated in the near future.
Overall, it is hoped that the screenings will help raise wider awareness and understanding about modern Taiwan and its vibrant creative industries.
The project will host nine film screenings during each academic year.
These will include a mix of feature films, short films, and documentaries.
There will be three film showings each in term 1 (September-December) and in term 2 (January to March); in term 3 we will devote an entire day to three screenings as part of our annual Taiwan Studies Summer School.
The film screenings shall be open to the general public and advertised widely on our Taiwan Studies website and through our extensive emailing lists.
The Understanding Taiwan through Film and Documentary Screening Series is supported by the Ministry of Culture’s Spotlight Taiwan Programme.
Special Thanks to Dr.
Samuel Yin for his generous support to the Spotlight Taiwan Programme.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/research-centres/centre-jaina-studies/giving-centre-jaina-studies:
This campaign is set up to cover the administrative costs of maintaining this unique SOAS tradition.
By making a donation, you can help us ensure that teaching in Prakrit remains part of SOAS and its research on Jainism.
This research is spearheaded by the SOAS Centre of Jaina Studies (COJS).
The aim of the centre is to promote the study of Jaina religion and culture by providing an interdisciplinary platform for academic research, teaching and publication in the field of Jaina Studies.
Jaina Studies at SOAS aims to promote understanding of Jainism worldwide.
Support is essential to ensure that the activities of the Centre continue.
Without sponsorship it would be impossible to sustain the range of its public activities and to make them freely available to everyone.
If you would like to be involved in supporting Jaina Studies, you can give a gift by credit card, by direct debit, or you can simply send us a cheque against a receipt, made payable to “SOAS (Centre of Jaina Studies)”.
If you would like to make a gift to Jaina Studies please donate online .
Regular gifts make a huge difference to our ability to plan Jaina Studies activities in the long term, so monthly, quarterly or annual gifts are a huge boost to our outreach and scholarly initiatives.
Please select the Centre of Jaina Studies from the list of philanthropic projects around SOAS.
If you are looking to make a tax efficient gift in the US, we have a 501(c)3 with full tax receipts for every gift and you can donate a single or monthly gift .
If you have any queries about donating, please contact philanthropy@soas.ac.uk .
As SOAS is a registered charity, we can make your donations go further through the Gift Aid Scheme.
For standard rate UK taxpayers, this means your gift will be worth an extra 28% to us.
Do please ensure you tick the box and complete the Gift Aid declaration as you make your donation.
Donate to the Centre of Jaina Studies, SOAS.
Centre of Jaina Studies Department of the Study of Religions Faculty of Arts and Humanities School of Oriental and African Studies University of London Thornhaugh Street Russell Square London WC1H OXG United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/law-environment-and-development-centre:
The Law, Environment and Development Centre (LEDC) investigates the dynamic relationships between the fields of law, environment and development.
The Law, Environment and Development Centre (LEDC) based in the College of Law provides a focal point to expand the increasing interest in the dynamic relationships between the fields of law, environment and development.
Its main goal of the centre is to advance research and teaching and explore the role each of these disciplines play in realising sustainable development and natural resource use, particularly in the Global South.
LEDC adopts multidisciplinary approaches in researching key issues in environmental law and development today; including, water, land use, forests, climate change, intellectual property, rights of nature and indigenous peoples rights.
LEDC undertakes research in various areas of environmental law of contemporary relevance.
Its research focuses in particular on topics of relevance to the South and to North-South relations.
LEDC currently co-hosts the European Research Council (ERC) project Addressing the Multi-scalar Dimensions of Sectoral Water Conflicts: Lessons from South Asia (WATCON), which has received funding from UKRI under the UKRI Frontier Research grants scheme.
The Law, Environment and Development Centre undertakes research in various areas of environmental law of contemporary relevance.
The centre's research focuses in particular on topics of relevance to the South and to North-South relations:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/soas-arbitration-and-dispute-resolution-centre:
Its main objectives include promoting research, teaching, and knowledge sharing in arbitration, litigation, mediation, and other dispute resolution methods, with a particular emphasis on the SOAS regions of Asia, Africa, and the Middle East.
The Centre acts as a platform for engagement among SOAS staff, students, and the public with an interest in dispute resolution to foster connections between practitioners, consumers of dispute resolution mechanisms, the judiciary, the legal profession, civil society, the business community, and governmental and intergovernmental experts.
As a member of the SOAS Arbitration and Dispute Resolution Centre you will gain access to regular news, email updates, and events, all for free.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/soas-food-studies-centre:
The SOAS Food Studies Centre is an interdisciplinary centre dedicated to the study of the political, economic, and cultural dimensions of food, historically and in the contemporary moment, from production, to exchange, to preparation, to consumption.
The Centre’s primary purposes are to promote research and teaching in the field of food studies at SOAS and to facilitate links between SOAS and other individuals and institutions with an academic interest in food studies.
The Centre also convenes the SOAS Food Forum.
While the centre draws upon the regional expertise of its many members in Africa, Asia and the Middle East, it also engages in its teaching and research activities with other regions, such as Europe and the Americas, as well as with issues of global dimension.
Members of SOAS staff are eligible for full membership in the Centre.
Applications for associate membership are accepted at the discretion of the Centre Chair from those with an academic interest in food.
Membership is free of charge.
Members are subscribed to the Centre e-mail list, which is used to announce Centre events and to disseminate information about food studies beyond the school including relevant conferences, calls for papers, job postings, and fellowship/studentship opportunities.
The centre is chaired by Dr Elizabeth Hull , Senior Lecturer in Social Anthropology.
Recordings of the SOAS Food Studies Centre's Distinguished Lectures can be found on the centre's YouTube playlist .
In this video, deputy chair of the centre (and former chair) Dr Jakob Klein interviews Chef Andrew Wong and Dr Mukta Das on their work at London's A.Wong Restaurant.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/soas-shapoorji-pallonji-institute-zoroastrian-studies:
The SOAS Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies was launched in June 2018 thanks to the generous donation from a Parsi benefactor, Mr Shapoor Mistry, in the name of his father, Mr Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry.
We provide an open, vibrant and non-confessional learning and research environment for students and scholars from around the world, for the Zoroastrian community, and for the wider public.
​ Our interests lie in all aspects of Zoroastrianism of all periods, including history, religion, philosophy, languages, arts, archaeology, society and culture, and how these may address global challenges.​
We work collaboratively on the long-term digital and material preservation of the precious and endangered Zoroastrian heritage for generations to come.
The 2025 SOAS Artist-in-Residence Fellowship of the Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies presents a new major solo exhibition of Karl Singporewala’s sculptural interpretations of Zoroastrian symbolism.
We strive to make our events hybrid so that people from around the world can interact with our activities.
You can watch live via Zoom and Facebook, or watch past recordings curated in our SSPIZS playlist .
The 5th Zoroastrianism Summer School Zoroastrianism in a Global World offers a unique opportunity to explore one of the world’s oldest religions as it continues to shape lives in India, Iran and the UK.
Using a rich visual repository of artifacts, paintings, and texts, this four-week course will take you through the story of Zoroastrian religion, history, and culture.
Thanks to the generosity of the Shapoorji Pallonji endowment for scholarships in Zoroastrian studies at SOAS there are a number of awards available for UK/EU and Overseas fee-paying students.
The Senior Advisory Panel comprises nine members, including the donor, who can nominate up to four representatives.
SOAS may nominate up to four members, one of whom will be a Pro-Director of SOAS who will act as Chair.
The Senior Advisory Panel’s remit is purely advisory.
It is intended to offer guidance and support to the Institute.
It is intended to advise the Co-Chairs and support the Institute start-up, collaborate to maximise opportunities for the Institute, advise the Co-Chairs on the management of risks associated with the activities of the Institute and consider the Institute’s continued evolution and impact.
The Senior Advisory Panel meets twice a year and the Co-Chairs attend the meetings.
Sign up to receive our monthly newsletter and find out about upcoming events, research and opportunities.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/soas-south-asia-institute:
The SOAS South Asia Institute (SSAI) represents the most extensive and diverse community of scholars working on South Asia of any university in Europe.
While most of its members’ research and teaching activities are related primarily to India, the SSAI also provides a home for scholars whose work focuses on Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Bhutan.
The institute has a growing number of partnerships with universities and research institutes in South Asia which provide a basis for mutually beneficial collaborations in both teaching and research.
It works to strengthen links with SOAS alumni, particularly in South Asia, and to secure philanthropic funding to enhance SOAS’s reach and impact in South Asian Studies and ensure the future sustainability of its more specialised scholarship.
It makes the expertise of its members more widely available to the wider world by engaging with governments, businesses, NGOs the charity sector, the media, and beyond.
In collaboration with SOAS's Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy , it offers an online postgraduate programme in Global Diplomacy (South Asia) for diplomats and interested persons worldwide
SOAS academics working on South Asia have been incredibly successful at securing external funding.
Amongst us, we have four significant awards from the European Research Council, two major research contracts with the Department for International Development and awards from the Economic and Social Research Council, British Academy and Arts and Humanities Research Council.
We believe that our success is an external recognition of the high quality nature of our research engagement with the region.
The institute delivers interdisciplinary research seminars ; organises high profile lecture events; and facilitates symposiums and lectures on current affairs.
Awarded annually by the Charles Wallace Pakistan Trust to a Pakistani scholar whose research and career would particularly benefit from the opportunity of spending three months at SOAS
Here are some recordings of events hosted by the SOAS South Asia Institute.
More can be found at SOAS youtube channel.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-korean-studies:
Created in 1987 with the support of the Korea Research Foundation and the Korea Foundation, the Centre has been the leading academic centre of its kind in Great Britain since its establishment.
SOAS has one of the largest concentrations of Korean Studies scholars in Europe and offers a wide range of programmes and courses on Korea.
With its active outreach programme and seminar series, our Centre not only coordinates Korea-related activities within the School, but also serves as a national and international forum for interdisciplinary exchange among Koreanists.
One of the Centre of Korean Studies’ core activities is its ongoing seminar series, which features guest speakers and scholars from around the world working across diverse fields related to Korea.
The Centre hosts workshops and conferences organised by Korean associations such as the British Association of Korean Studies (BAKS) and the Association of Korean Studies in Europe (AKSE).
The Sochon Foundation has generously provided SOAS with scholarships for students undertaking a full-time post-graduate programmes in Korean Studies.
Each award covers up to £6,000 towards tuition fees for Overseas students and up to £3,000 towards tuition fees for Home students.
There are up to four scholarships available for 2025/26.
The scholarship is for one year only and will be applied in the first year of study if the programme is longer than 1 year.
The Sochon Foundation Scholarship may be held in conjunction with other scholarships.
However, please be aware that all secured financial support must be declared in your application.
Each year, the Centre of Korean Studies welcomes Visiting Scholars and Research Associates working in the field of Korean studies.
These scholars join us to benefit from SOAS's vibrant research culture and world-class library collections, including one of the finest Korean-language holdings in the UK.
We are pleased to support both early-career and established researchers seeking affiliation with the Centre.
For full details on eligibility, fees, and how to apply, please visit our Honorary Appointments page .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/centre-palestine-studies:
The Centre for Palestine Studies (CPS) was established in 2012 under the umbrella of the SOAS Middle East Institute (previously known as the London Middle East Institute - LMEI).
Its establishment responds to the urgency of the study of Palestine as a major global concern over social injustice, rights, settler colonialism, systems of exclusion and global politics.
The question of Palestine and the lack of resolution to the so-called conflict with Israel has implicated various countries across the Middle East and North Africa and further afield.
Palestinian refugees remain the largest body of refugees in the world, Palestine is the theatre of the longest ongoing illegal occupation recognised as such in international law, Palestinian holders of Israeli citizenship have been permanently engaged in fighting for their rights, and a wide range of social and political movements locally and globally claim to represent the Palestinian voice.
Reflecting this complexity and central importance to the wider Middle East and North Africa region and to the world, the academic study of Palestine and Palestinians has generated a large and ever-growing body of knowledge across every disciplinary field and across disciplines.
For SOAS, the study of Palestine and Palestinians has always been a prominent feature of research and teaching, involving a considerable number of staff and students.
The Centre for Palestine Studies provides an institutional home for this work across the various disciplines represented at SOAS, including Politics, History, Development Studies, Economics, Anthropology, Gender Studies, Law, Media and Film Studies, Art, and Music.
The centre organises lectures, seminars and conferences, film screenings and other events.
Our aim is to promote the highest quality research on Palestine, and we seek the means to attain this goal.
The CPS also seeks to cooperate with similar centres in the UK, the Middle East and internationally.
The Centre for Palestine Studies is a leading centre of critical approaches to the Question of Palestine in a wide range of academic fields.
This critical study of Palestine is both essential and urgent.
Receive regular updates of the Centre's activities and information on other Palestine related events.
The SOAS Palestine Studies Series is edited by the Centre for Palestine Studies and published by I.B.
Tauris, an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing.
The first Western academic series entirely dedicated to this topic, SOAS Palestine Studies draws from a variety of disciplinary fields.
The SOAS Middle East Institute at SOAS University of London.
Arabic language courses at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/japan-research-centre:
The Japan Research Centre (JRC) has been the forum for Japan related research activities at SOAS since 1978.
The centre develops and coordinates academic research and teaching, drawing upon the expertise of Japan specialists based in various departments throughout the School.
With one of the largest concentration of Japan specialists outside Japan, the JRC acts as a national and international centre for Japanese studies.
The JRC also hosts research associates and visiting scholars who are working on projects relevant to the Centre.
The Japan Research Centre fosters a vibrant and interdisciplinary research environment, home to the largest concentration of Japanese Studies scholars in the United Kingdom and Europe.
Our members are engaged in cutting-edge research spanning a wide array of disciplines, including:
The Centre actively supports collaborative projects, publications, and public engagement initiatives that contribute to the advancement of Japanese Studies both within and beyond academia.
To learn more about our research activities and annual highlights, please explore the JRC Annual Review archive .
In addition to our bi-weekly seminar series, the Japan Research Centre hosts several key annual events, including the Meiji Jingu Autumn Lecture Series, the Sir Peter Parker Awards (SPPA) , and the Japanese Language Proficiency Test (JLPT) .
Recordings of past events are available on the Japan Research Centre playlist via the SOAS YouTube channel.
With the generous support of the Meiji Jingu Intercultural Research Institute and the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation , the Japan Research Centre offers scholarships each year to support postgraduate students pursuing research on Japan.
These awards help to nurture the next generation of Japan scholars across a wide range of disciplines.
JRC members also provide active support for doctoral students applying for both internal and external research funding.
For further details on current scholarships and how to apply, please visit our awards and grants page .
Each year, the Japan Research Centre welcomes Visiting Scholars and Research Associates working in the field of Japanese studies.
These scholars join us to benefit from SOAS's vibrant research culture and world-class library collections, including one of the finest Japanese-language holdings in the UK.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/soas-china-institute:
The SOAS China Institute (SCI) is a world leading centre for China expertise located in the heart of London.
SOAS is home to the largest community of Chinese Studies scholars in Europe.
The Institute promotes interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary, critically informed research and teaching on China; it channels the unrivalled breadth and depth of expertise across a wide spectrum of disciplines on China to the wider worlds of government, business, media, education, the arts, NGOs and beyond.
The SOAS China Institute promotes collaborative research on China and its relations with the rest of the world.
Learn about the academic staff who work at and support the institute.
The SOAS China Institute Advisory Board consists of up to 10 distinguished individuals who have had extensive experience dealing with and knowledge of China.
The Board meets regularly to advise the Director on a range of matters including external policy priorities, fundraising opportunities, engagement with the corporate and public sectors, and emerging academic trends.
At present, it has six members.
Sir Andrew Burns is a former British diplomat who has served as the UK’s Special Envoy on Post-Holocaust Issues, High Commissioner in Canada, Consul-General in Hong Kong and Ambassador to Israel, as well as a BBC Governor, University Chair and Legal Services Regulator.
Charles Sands is an international lawyer specializing in complex commercial transactions, with broad global experience.
He had served as head of Herbert Smith's International and Banking Department, a Consultant to the Board of Eversheds, and director of a number of enterprises, including a major company in Southern China.
Priscylla Shaw has supported arts and culture, education, and health services in Singapore for the last three decades, chairing and serving on various national and non-profit organisations, including the Asian Civilisations Museum, Home Nursing Foundation and INSEAD.
She is an alumna of SOAS.
Henry Wang is President of Gate International, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, and a Fellow of the Institute of Chemical Engineering.
He had previously served as a director of both Shell China and SABIC in Riyadh, He advises international leaders and is a member of the G20/B20 International Taskforce.
He has published widely, including six books.
Elizabeth Wright was a former British diplomat, serving in Beijing, Director of the Great Britain-China Centre, Head of the Asia and Pacific Region of the BBC World Service and Executive Chair of the China Policy Institute of the University of Nottingham.
She served as a Trustee of SOAS and is currently a Trustee of the Needham Research Institute.
China In Context is a fortnightly podcast by the SOAS China Institute which offers expert analysis on the politics, economy, society, culture and history of China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.
The SOAS China Institute Blog offers a platform to academics, PhD students and other China-specialists and researchers to share short commentaries on their expertise and research across a wide spectrum of disciplines.
See lectures, seminars and conferences from the SOAS China Institute on the SOAS University of London YouTube channel .
Sign up to get the latest news and updates from the SOAS China Institute
SOAS is the world’s leading institution for the study of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
This theme leverages the School’s regional expertise to better understand the global context in which China operates.
It will examine China’s efforts to engage with these regions through its flagship Belt and Road Initiative, as well as the response they receive in these regions.
China’s re-emergence as a superpower under a leader determined that his country should take centre stage in world affairs is a major development in the world.
How China engages with the United States of America, the other great powers and the international community have far-reaching implications across many areas, from those of peace and security to climate change to the operation of multilateral agencies such as the United Nations and World Trade Organisation.
The economic miracle of post-Mao China and implementation of the ‘one child policy’ have had a profound impact on Chinese society, particularly in terms of family and gender relationships.
This research programme not only examines the nature, origins and impact of changes that have unfolded in mainland China, but also contextualises them against parallel developments in Taiwan and Hong Kong, whose citizens also experienced significant changes to family relations and gender mores.
China’s economic transformation since 1978 has been truly astonishing.
Domestically, it has removed hundreds of millions of people from poverty, facilitated a consumer revolution and enabled China to join the ranks of Middle Income countries.
But it has done so at the expense of widening regional and social inequality.
Under the Fifth Generation of leaders many are questioning China’s ability to maintain the momentum of growth and transformation and escape the Middle Income Trap.
This Programme investigates salient aspects of China’s development strategy and the forces that will shape its future growth trajectory.
In particular, it will examine the challenges facing agriculture as it seeks to overcome severe resource pressures and maintain China’s food security.
Working with visual material, ranging from art to advertising, from journalism to propaganda, we will explore innovative methods to visualise how China imagines itself, and how it is imagined elsewhere.
Whilst focusing on art and culture, this theme has a wider disciplinary resonance, and promises to generate new-style scholarly outputs beyond traditional books and articles.
China may have retained the same Leninist political system in place since Mao Zedong was leader, but great changes have taken place since Mao’s death.
One of the most important of these was the institutionalisation of the succession process.
In 2017, however, this was reversed, with the termination of the term limit for the State Presidency and the inauguration of ‘Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics in a New Era’.
This Programme provides an in-depth examination of the meaning of Xi Jinping Thought and considers how it will shape China’s politics and the direction of travel set by the Chinese Communist Party.
Human rights and social justice are highly contested terms framing much of the debate about China in other countries.
Having become a founding member of the UN Human Rights Council, China is now shaping global human rights agenda.
By examining the practical implications of social, political and economic inequality in China, as well as cultural and theoretical understandings of rights and justice from a Chinese perspective, we seek to contribute independent, informed perspectives from which to interpret an often highly polarise debate.
Questions about how religion, ideology and other belief systems not only provide social cohesion, but also produce tensions between different communities lie at the core of this highly complex and interdisciplinary research area.
Within this Programme we will examine a range of issues, including China’s governance of ethnic minorities, historical changes in the ruling Party’s own belief system, and the culture of Chinese communities overseas.
The Programme also embraces fieldwork among religious groups in China.
Increasing the knowledge of governments across the world as they shaped their China strategy, and informing decision-making and strategic thinking among multinationals working in China.
The Yenching Academy of Peking University offers a Master's degree in China Studies.
This specially designed, English-taught program aims to push the study of China beyond the boundaries of traditionally defined Humanities and Social Sciences disciplines.
It creates space to incorporate the diverse backgrounds and experiences of program participants into the study of ancient, modern, and contemporary China, effectively acting as an incubator for innovative approaches to past, present, and future Chinese transformations.
At the core of the program lies its emphasis on interdisciplinary and the value it assigns to thinking about China's development from both Chinese and international perspectives.
At least one SOAS student each year is accepted by the Yenching Academy via its Scholarship scheme .
Young China Watchers is a dynamic group of China-focused young professionals.
Through regular roundtables and talks with senior figures in the China academic, policy and business communities, it provides a chance for engaged individuals to interact and discuss the most pressing issues emerging from China today.
Through our growing global network, we seek to foster the next generation of China thought-leaders.
Young China Watchers runs an open membership policy, keen to attract all China-engaged, knowledgeable and policy-interested individuals.
Our purpose is to nurture a new community of people focused on and alert to China’s growing importance in international affairs.
Young China Watchers was first established in Beijing in 2009 and has steadily expanded its network to nine chapters including Shanghai, Hong Kong, London, New York, San Francisco, Berlin, Singapore and Brussels with more than 2,500 members around the world.
Each year, the Young China Watchers offers a mentorship programme which is open to SOAS students.
This is a great opportunity to receive advice and support from experienced China professionals to get ahead in a China-based career, as well as getting a head start in building a network in the London-based China watching community.
Beijing Normal University , a key university under the administration of the Ministry of Education, is a renowned institution of higher education known for teacher education, education science and basic learning in both the arts and the sciences.
Zhejiang University is a comprehensive research university with distinctive features and a national as well as international impact.
Research at Zhejiang University spans 12 academic disciplines, covering philosophy, economics, law, education, literature, history, art, science, engineering, agriculture, medicine, management and etc.
With 7 faculties and 36 colleges/schools, Zhejiang University has 14 primary and 21 secondary national leading academic disciplines.
Zhejiang University has a partnership of academic exchange with the SOAS China Institute.
In October 2024 the SOAS China Institute entered into a partnership with the Prague-based China Observers in Central and Eastern Europe ( CHOICE ) .
The partnership is a collaboration between each institute's respective China-studies blogs, where up to 12 articles will be shared and cross-posted between each blog annually.
CHOICE is a multinational consortium of experts providing informed analysis on the rising influence of the People’s Republic of China within the countries of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) and is run by the Association for International Affairs (AMO), a prominent foreign policy think-tank and NGO in Czechia.
SOAS China Institute Paul Webley Wing, Senate House SOAS, University of London Thornhaugh Street Russell Square London WC1H 0XG
Interviews with our China experts can be arranged by calling the Communications Office on +44 (0)20 7898 4135 or email press@soas.ac.uk .
Each year the Institute receives visiting scholars of Chinese studies who wish to be located at SOAS to take advantage of its existing research culture and its excellent Chinese library holdings.
Information on how to apply.
In 2017, SCI was pleased to introduce our corporate membership scheme.
Enquiries should be addressed to the Director .
The China Quarterly is the leading scholarly journal in its field, covering all aspects of contemporary China including Taiwan.
MA Chinese Studies at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/centres-and-institutes/soas-middle-east-institute:
The SOAS Middle East Institute (SMEI) is an interdisciplinary institute promoting innovative engagement on the Middle East through research and outreach.
The SMEI is a forward-thinking hub bringing together the worlds of scholarship, practice, and policy to foster meaningful exchanges among diverse stakeholders and craft creative solutions to key planetary challenges pertinent to the Middle East and North Africa.
The SMEI’s activities span several intersecting work streams: art and culture, heritage and history, environment and energy, political economy, public policy, and politics.
The SMEI was first established in 2002 as the London Middle East Institute to foster scholarly and public interest in the MENA region.
It collaborates closely with the academic community and with specialist centres on the region at SOAS.
Image by Kenneth Coffie via Unsplash
The SMEI engages in research and outreach on all aspects of art and culture pertaining to the Middle East and North Africa region in collaboration with practitioners from diverse backgrounds across the globe.
The SMEI engages actively in research and the production of a variety of outputs on the rich heritage and history of the Middle East and North Africa and the region’s connections with the rest of the world.
The SMEI engages in crafting policy-oriented solutions to challenges related to the environment and energy transition.
The SMEI is a member of the International Advisory Board of Think 28 (T28), an official research and policy advisory platform for the global climate change conference COP28 (UAE, November and December 2023).
The SMEI delivers customisable short courses aimed at policymakers, diplomats, civil servants, and policy practitioners working across national administration institutions and other professional bodies to strengthen their skills and capacity in public policy.
The SMEI engages in research on the changing political economy landscape in the MENA region.
The SMEI engages in research and policy analysis on geopolitics, international relations, and political transformations across the MENA region and its connections with the rest of the world.
Get all the latest information about the Institute's activities, research news and external events sent straight to your inbox.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/research-and-knowledge-exchange:
Research and Knowledge Exchange supports funded research activity, knowledge exchange and research excellence at SOAS.
We support researchers by coaching academic staff making external research grant applications, giving feedback to application drafts; costing projects and advising on funders’ terms and conditions; and managing the funds of awarded grants.
Funding support offered by the Research and Knowledge Exchange team.
SOAS is excited to be supporting prospective researchers who wish to apply to be hosted at SOAS.
We want to re-centre research excellence and intensivity, placing these features at the very heart of our institutional mission.
Read our 2021-2025 Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy, outlining our goals and objectives.
Research ethics policies, including the Statement on Research Integrity.
Supporting our staff in achieving their research goals.
Scholarly communications is the process of legally disseminating publications, datasets and research findings to maximise re-use, visibility and impact within the academic community and wider society.
The Enterprise team is here to link up governments, business, NGOs and other organisations with the wealth of expertise SOAS has to offer

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/research-and-knowledge-exchange/early-careers-grants-and-fellowships:
We are excited to be supporting prospective researchers who wish to apply to be hosted at SOAS.
Our research is globally recognised, with over half our disciplines landing in the top ten for universities following the Research Excellence Framework 2021 (REF), and 87% of the research that we submitted ranking ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange strategy 2021-2026 (PDF, 564KB) outlines are plans for re-centring research excellence and intensivity.
The structure and shape of the support will depend on the grant or fellowship you are awarded, but most will include a generous training and career development budget to enrich your skills as a researcher, and to build your network, profile and publication record.
SOAS is a signatory to the HR Concordat for Excellence in Research, providing academic colleagues with a strong support network and framework for research development, as well as an Early Career Research forum to support researchers across the institution.
All researchers who come to SOAS on the types of grants listed above will enjoy the status and benefits of that come with being a member of our academic community.
They will have access to the facilities they need to carry out their work including access to the SOAS Library, one of the world's most important academic libraries for the study of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
You will have access to biddable funds for to develop their research and impact; mentoring and support via our Personal Research Plan process, and dedicated time to pursue specific career development activities.
SOAS are inviting outstanding applicants to apply to the British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship scheme 2025-2026.
This scheme provides three-year fellowships for early career researchers within three years of submission of PhD (who have completed their viva voce between 1 April 2023 and 1 April 2026).
Fellowships are tenable in all fields within the humanities and social sciences.
This is a highly competitive scheme: the success rate is typically no more than 10%.
Prospective applicants should first contact a relevant academic staff member at SOAS to discuss their proposed research project and its alignment with the department’s research priorities.
If the mentor agrees to support the application, they must complete and submit the Expression of Interest Form by noon on Friday, 1 August 2025 , uploading the applicant’s Draft Proposal, using this designated template —a shortened version of the British Academy application proposal.
The SOAS panel will review the applications and submit their selected proposals to the Research Office by Friday, 15 August.
The Research Office will notify all applicants of the outcome—whether successful or unsuccessful—on Monday, 18 August.
A detailed timeline for the next stages of the application process will be shared thereafter.
Please note that, in line with the British Academy’s demand management guidelines, SOAS will support only a limited number of applications.
Late submissions will not be considered.
For any questions during this process, please contact your relevant College Research Coordinator or email us at research@soas.ac.uk
Lecturer in International Politics of Africa and UKRI Future Leaders Fellow
Dr Romina Istratii is UKRI Future Leaders Fellow at the School of History, Religions and Philosophies, as well as an Honorary Research Associate to the Department of Development Studies and the Centre of World Christianity at SOAS.
Supporting funded research activity, knowledge exchange and research excellence at SOAS.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/research-and-knowledge-exchange/hr-excellence-research-award:
SOAS is committed to supporting and developing our research staff (postdoctoral researchers, research assistants and independently funded research fellows).
Our definition of research staff is drawn from the Concordat and defines researchers as individuals whose primary responsibility is to conduct research and who are employed for this purpose.
We also recognise that ‘research staff’ refers to a wide range of staff including those with:
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers sets out the expectations and responsibilities of researchers, their managers, employers and funders.
It aims to increase the attractiveness and sustainability of research careers in the UK and to improve the quantity, quality and impact of research for the benefit of UK society.
The School is committed to the The Concordat Principles to support the career development of researchers.
The 2023 report for the Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers is available to download .
SOAS progress against the Concordat Principles is measured by the HR Excellence in Research Award .
Over 120 other institutions hold this award across the UK.
SOAS successfully applied for the HR Excellence in Research Award (March 2012 round) and as such our commitment to the development of our researchers has been recognised.
We successfully submitted our two-year review plan for assessment in 2014 and successfully underwent a more rigorous re-accreditation process in 2016, 2020 and 2022.
The HR Excellence in Research Steering Group has monitored progress and developed the action plans, approved by the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee.
SOAS has received the HR Excellence in Research Award for its 12th year, recognising our continued commitment to supporting and developing our research community.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-funding:
Our dedicated Research and Knowledge Exchange team facilitates the development of proposals and tenders, manages project budgets, advises on ethics, risk and due diligence, and supports impact and evaluation.
We have a diverse portfolio of externally funded research, including grants awarded by:
If you are interested in applying for research funding, please contact your Research and Knowledge Exchange Development Officer.
Details of which Officers cover which Departments and Schools can be found on MySOAS .
For general queries, please contact us on research@soas.ac.uk .
We support Fellows from across the globe to come to SOAS to undertake high-standard research and develop their academic portfolios.
We have hosted fellowships funded via organisations and schemes including the British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust, the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship programme, and a range of specialist sponsors.
If you would like to find out more about current opportunities at SOAS, please email research@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS has successfully secured an ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) for 2023-2028.
Co-managed by the SOAS Centre for Migration and Diaspora Studies and the Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate, the 5-year £1.25 million IAA boosts the impact of SOAS’ migration and marginalisation research.
This thematically focused IAA will articulate with all aspects of SOAS’ strategies, mobilising nationally and globally urgent ground-breaking SOAS social science research on the precursors and effects of migration and displacement and of the construction of minorities and minority identities, and strengthening SOAS’ emergent and powerful decolonising partnership practices with policy, NGO and corporate sectors that result in positive action.
A range of support is offered for SOAS researchers at every stage of their careers
SOAS researchers will also be gain expertise in knowledge exchange practices and approaches through partner-led capacity building, and will have the opportunity of showcasing their research and engage the public during the annual ESRC Festival of Social Science .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-vision-and-strategy:
The world needs SOAS more than ever before.
A global university in the heart of London’s vibrant university quarter, with a more diverse staff and student base than virtually any other in the UK, our scholarship spans the arts, humanities and social sciences.
Our expertise is deeply and uniquely rooted in the political, social, economic, historical and cultural dynamics of Africa, Asia and the Middle East and their diasporas, which collectively account for over three-quarters of the world’s population.
We think about the world differently.
Even as our world has become more interconnected through trade, travel and global communications, it also seems more fragmented.
We make the connections that others cannot, helping to build bridges in a complex world and applying a global lens to the critical issues of our time.
Our internationalism and our commitment to justice, diversity, equality and the highest ethical standards infuse all that we do.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-ethics:
The SOAS Research Ethics Policy sets out the ethical principles which staff, students and other researchers are expected to follow when conducting research under the auspices of SOAS.
The policy, which has been approved by the Research & Knowledge Exchange Committee, defines the unacceptable behaviour which will be treated by the School as research misconduct.
The policy can be found on the Policies and Procedures page .
The SOAS policy for Investigating Allegations of Research Misconduct has been adopted from the model Procedure for the Investigation of Misconduct in Research published by the UK Research Integrity Office.
It sets out how SOAS will undertake investigations that relate to allegations of research misconduct, as defined in the Research Ethics policy.
All complaints relating to allegations of research misconduct must be submitted in writing and marked for the attention of the Schools' Registrar.
There is also a separate SOAS whistleblowing policy available:
SOAS continues in its commitment of striving to ensure research conducted under its auspices conforms to the revised Concordat to Support Research Integrity (October 2019).
The contact point for research governance at SOAS is Khalid Hasan [email: kh44@soas.ac.uk ].
Access to the recent statement as approved by the Board of Trustees is now available.
PDF document, 109.53KB
Previous years statements are also available:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school:
The SOAS Doctoral School aims to provide our postgraduate research students with the best PhD experience possible.
We support doctoral researchers at every step of their PhD journey, providing guidance, information, and help when things are not going as planned.
We provide excellent research infrastructure and facilities, in terms of space for writing, co-working, and socialising and through our four PGR grant schemes.
And we foster PGR research culture through our online and in-person programmes of training, skills development, collaboration, and discussion.
"Here at the Doctoral School we aim to cultivate a strong and well-supported research community, and to develop effective, well-run, and responsive training programmes and support structures."
A user-friendly dashboard where all the required information on these meetings will be documented and agreed by the students and supervisors.
The organisation that represents all doctoral researchers at SOAS.
A co-working initiative for SOAS doctoral researchers.
Peer-to-peer support scheme for new PGR students.
Find out who our PhD researchers are at SOAS.
Grants, training modules and the Connected PhD initiative.
Funding to PhD students for language training, conference attendance, student-led initiatives and fieldwork.
Useful links for PhD students, including training opportunities and further development resources.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/interruptions-studies:
An Interruption of Studies (IoS) is a formal process in which the School grants the relevant student a term/s absence from the School in which they are not expected to remain engaged.
IoS are a serious request to be made when undergoing external pressures that are preventing you engaging with your research.
These tend to be personal, financial or medical.
An IoS is a total break from your PhD; you will remain registered as a PhD student but you will not be considered active.
Any time spent on an IoS will not count towards your period of registration.
If you are certain you wish to apply for an IoS, this is applied for via PhD Manager using the Change Request tab.
The application needs to be supported by your supervisor as they will also have to approve it before the request moves to the Doctoral School.
Those wishing to apply should use the 'Change Request' form on PhD Manager to apply for the IoS.
This will be looked over and approved by their Supervisor, the Doctoral School (DS) and the Director of Doctoral Studies (DDS) for their department.
The DS will communicate the decision of your application through PhD Manager.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/phd-community:
Publishing full-length articles and short articles on any aspect of the research and fieldwork process.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/phd-researchers:
The Annual Report Form (reffered to as the Annual Progression Overview on PhD Manager) is a recurring milestone in the PhD/MPhil programme and provides both students and supervisors the opportunity to reflect on the activities undertaken in the current academic year.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/project-milestones/annual-progression-review:
These include:
Completion of Annual Report Form is necessary to enable continued enrolment in subsequent academic years.
Continued enrolment on the programme is a requirement of the Postgraduate Research Degree Regulations and Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Degrees .
Continued enrolment is expected for all Postgraduate researchers who have not yet received a successful Viva outcome along with confirmation their thesis needs no amendments (further amendments where corrections have not been requested).
Only in this instance or where a student has requested termination of their enrolment status (withdrawal) will an Annual Report Form not be needed.
Postgraduate researchers failing to make satisfactory progress on their programme, or those who are required to but have not completed an Annual Report Form, may be subject to withdrawal.
In order to begin the process, supervisors will need to select the Annual Progression option, under the respective student’s record on PhD Manager and complete the respective form.
Supervisors and researchers should meet (online or in person) and complete the form together, as reports require input from both of parties.
You may want to use a supervisory meeting to undertake this.
Once you are both satisfied with the content of the form, the supervisor will submit this along with a decision on the progress.
The form will then be sent to the student to confirm the content of the form, and for any additional notes they may want to add, before it is sent to the Doctoral School for processing.
Instructions on ‘How to complete the Annual Report’ are available on PhD Manager.
The deadline for submission of the Annual Report Form (for those needing continued enrolment in 2025/26) is 1st July 2025.
Please ensure that submission of the form is made by this date as any late submission may cause delays to your enrolment record for the next academic year.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/doctoral-school-offer-holders:
However, the majority of students who require a student visa to study at SOAS will need to make a payment to request a CAS (Please see our CAS request page for full details).
An unconditional offer can only be issued once an applicant has met SOAS’ academic entry and English language requirements and the evidence to support this has been provided.
You will need your student reference number when doing things like paying your tuition fees, enrolling during welcome week, using the library and when making general enquiries as an enrolled student.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, you must hold an unconditional firm offer prior to being able to request a CAS number.
Please see our CAS request page for full details.
You can find more information on the UKCISA website .
If you believe your fee status has been incorrectly assessed, you will need to complete and submit the online DS fee status questionnaire alongside any relevant supporting documentation.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/project-milestones/upgrade-mphil-phd:
All post-graduate research students are initially registered for the MPhil award of their chosen degree until they undertake the Upgrade examination to confirm their eligibility to transfer to the PhD award.
As part of the Upgrade process students are required to complete the following on PhD Manager:
Instructions on how to initiate the process can be found on  the ‘ How to submit my upgrade paper – student version’ available on PhD Manager through the ‘ Upgrade (MPhil/PhD transfer’ tab.
Once you have completed the required tasks on PhD Manager, your supervisor will liaise with you to arrange an Upgrade Examination.
During this, your department will assess your suitability to be upgraded to the PhD award.
Your department may have additional requirements as part of the Upgrade examination.
We advise you to adhere to any directives you have received in this regard from your departmental Director of Doctoral Studies, to check the relevant assessment criteria below and also confirm these with your lead supervisor.
Upgrade Guide on BLE
Portfolio consists of four pieces of written work; 1.Methodology paper (approx.
5000 words) 2.
'Core chapter' (approx.
8000 words) 3.Chapterisation (approx 2000 words) 4.Timeline to completion with detailed timetable for year 2 (approx 1000 words).
Total amount of written work to be submitted approximates 15-20,000 words.
The Upgrade examination may take place online through a relevant communication platform or in person and your supervisor/Director of Doctoral Studies will advise whether the examination takes place with your supervisory committee or if you will be required to present your work within a group setting.
Following this, your supervisor will advise the Doctoral School of the result and this will need final confirmation from your Director of Doctoral Studies.
You will then be advised of the outcome and the next steps to take.
For the 2024/25 academic year, the following deadlines will apply:
Failure to Upgrade during the periods prescribed could result in your inability to be transferred to the PhD programme and in some cases lead to the termination of enrolment with SOAS.
Please make sure you undertake the Upgrade accordingly and within the deadlines.
You may access the latest Upgrade support session delivered to help guide you through the process.
You may also want to visit our Upgrade FAQ page for more information.
If you need advice, support or clarification on this process, please contact us via the different communication channels outlined on the Doctoral School site or in our email signature.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/phd-training-and-development:
Pursuing a PhD is increasingly seen as more than producing a thesis and acquiring a scholarly specialism.
Your motivations for embarking on a PhD journey may vary, but by the end of it, you will be expected to be able to operate as an independent and competent researcher in various professional contexts and achieve broader social impacts.
In order to better prepare you for the current competitive economy and other challenges ahead of you, SOAS is committed to the academic and professional development of all doctoral researchers.
Our doctoral training programme is robust and in line with the recommendations of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, and other good practices of the sector.
Given the abundance of opportunities but the pressures of time, it is crucial for doctoral researchers to plan and monitor their researcher development activities strategically.
The annual Training Needs Analysis (on PhD Manager ) has been designed to help you and your supervisors in that process.
The TNA is a conversation between a doctoral researcher and their lead supervisor at the beginning of each academic year, whereby both parties identify skills areas that need further development and make prioritised action plans for that year.
Throughout the rest of the year, the doctoral researcher then maintains a record (on PhD Manager ) of development activities they undertake as per their TNA.
That record will feed into the researcher’s Annual Progress Review .
PhD training at SOAS takes place principally at the disciplinary level, led and overseen by the PhD Programme Conveners in the respective departments.
This is complemented by interdisciplinary and transferable research skills training open to all research students across the institution, including two credit-bearing “Common Core” modules by the Doctoral School.
Besides their department training, all first-year students are expected to complete Common Core I at least.
This module covers essential research skills that all SOAS PhD students need to develop regardless of their disciplines.
Students will collectively and individually explore ten key topics on designing and managing a successful research project, laying a strong foundation for their theses and research careers.
All new students will complete this module in Term 1 as part of their required training before the MPhil-toPhD upgrade.
Delivered in a blended mode, the course will be available on Moodle to accommodate the diverse backgrounds and schedules of PGR students.
Each weekly content includes a Unit Description, Resources, and Activities.
These online elements will be complemented by weekly offline sessions.
To pass the module and obtain its 30 credits, students must complete all online activities, whereas offline attendance is optional.
On successful completion of this module, a student will be able to:
The module includes six hours of online activities and two hours of classroom sessions per week.
For students not based at SOAS, classroom hours will be replaced by independent study.
This module in Term 2 aims to help all SOAS PhD students across the institution develop the necessary knowledge and skills for conducting high-quality research in the digital age.
Students will work collectively and individually through ten key topics on engaging with digital tools and sources, laying a strong foundation for their theses and research careers.
This is an optional module, unlike Common Core I, but students who complete both Common Core I and II successfully will be eligible for a Postgraduate Certificate if they withdraw from the PhD programme.
These two modules are designed to provide all SOAS PhD students with a strong foundation in research ethics, risk assessment, wellbeing, data management, open scholarship, and critical digital literacy, as well as fostering collegiality and collaboration beyond the students’ home departments.
SOAS is a member of the ESRC’s UBEL DTP, the AHRC’s CHASE Consortium, the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network (BPSN), and the Bloomsbury Doctoral Partnership (with Birkbeck, LSHTM, the UCL Institute of Education, and the Royal Veterinary College).
We benefit from and contribute to training sharing schemes and events within all of these networks.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/fieldwork-permission:
All doctoral researchers wishing to undertake overseas fieldwork must submit a completed Fieldwork Application form.
Students going on fieldwork must read the SOAS Overseas Travel Policy and check the country briefing documents on the Research Students' Common Room on Moodle as they are updated regularly.
This is available online and all students beginning their PhD in 2017/18 and later are required to complete it.
Any PhD student who is collecting or using personal data as part of their PhD research must read and adhere to the School’s Code of Practice for Use of Personal Data in Research and data protection legislation (UK, EU and International) throughout their research and when submitting their thesis for examination and to the Library and SOAS Research Online.
PhD students must ensure that personal data is anonymised before they submit their thesis unless they have received specific informed consent that it can be included.
PhD students must ensure that they carefully prepare for collecting informed consent from research participants used in their PhD research.
The School’s Code of Practice for Use of Personal Data in Research includes a template consent form which includes all the information you need to provide to research participants.
The form can be adapted to a particular research project and language context.
Evidence of the consent you have collected should be kept as long as you keep and use the data for your PhD research and future publication and you should include a blank version of the consent form you used in your thesis when it is submitted.
Before the collection of any personal data for research PhD students must ensure they are aware of the practical steps that need to be taken in order that personal data is collected, handled and shared in accordance with data protection legislation.
In addition to the Code of Practice for Using Personal Data in Research, there is a lot of essential practical advice and training about collecting and using and storing research data which PhD students must read before collecting research data:
This above guidance will help you complete the rest of this form.
If you need any further help or information you should contact:
As well as conforming to ethical standards, all Research projects that involve working with personal or special category data must conform to the requirements of current data protection legislation.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/examinations:
Please note that all doctoral researchers submit their examination forms and thesis on PhD Manager (since 15 September 2019).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/project-milestones/writing:
The third year of the PhD (or part-time equivalent) is normally devoted to drafting and re- drafting the chapters.
A complete draft of the thesis is required by the end of year  three.
For doctoral researchers on the +4 pathway this requirement takes place during the fourth year of full-time enrolment (or part-time equivalent).
Subject to satisfactory progress and completion of a draft thesis by the end of year three (or part-time equivalent) doctoral researchers may apply for a maximum of three terms on Extension of Writing-up (Continuation) status which enables you to have a discounted tuition fee for the term/s your application has been approved for.
For those on the +4 pathway Extension of Writing-up (Continuation) status would be considered at the end of the fourth year of full-time enrolment.
For MPhil candidates a completed draft thesis and transfer to Extension of Writing up (Continuation) status is required by the end of year two (or part-time equivalent).
Please review whether you meet the eligibility requirements set out below transfer to Extension of Writing up (Continuation) status and if so, log in to PhD Manager and ensure that you and your supervisor complete the application via ‘Change Requests - Extension to Writing-Up’.
Requirements
Extension of Writing-Up/Continuation status is normally permitted for either a maximum of three terms or until the prescribed School deadline for submission of the thesis for examination (whichever is sooner) .
If this status is not applied for or applicable, it is not rolled over and will be lost and your fee status continuing on a full-time/part time basis, unless there have been approved Interruptions of Study.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/project-milestones/doctoral-award-and-graduation:
Award letters are sent to successful candidates after the Doctoral School has received all parts of the final submission.
These are:
All SOAS MPhil and PhD certificates are ordered via PremierCert+ at the end of each calendar month and are estimated to arrive to your home address on record, within 6 and 12 weeks of being ordered.
An e-copy will be accessible via a link PremierCert+ will send to your email address on record.
If your award date is prior to 19 July 2024, you would be included in the September 2024 Graduation ceremony.
If your award date is after 19 July 2024, then you will be invited to the graduation ceremony the following year.
For all graduation queries, please use the contacts listed on the Graduation page .
We hope that you will also be joining our Alumni Network.
Please refer to the contacts listed on the SOAS Alumni page .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/doctoral-school/mitigating-circumstances-doctoral-school:
Mitigating circumstances are exceptional, short-term, unforeseen and unpreventable events which have a negative impact on a student’s ability to take or submit or to prepare for respective elements as detailed in 7.2 of the Mitigating Circumstances Policy MPhil/PhD Students.
They are over and above the course of everyday life and significantly disrupt a student’s ability to study for or to complete detailed elements.
Please note: the advice and process below only pertain to students registered on an MPhil or PhD programme administered by the SOAS Doctoral School.
If you are not registered on one of these, please access the guidance page Mitigating Circumstances on MySOAS .
If these unexpected non-academic events affect your ability to assessed in any of the following elements, the School recommends that you complete a Mitigating Circumstances online form :
For further information on Acceptable and Unacceptable circumstances, please review 2.4 and 2.5 of the Mitigating Circumstances Policy MPhil/PhD Students (PDF) .
All mitigating circumstances claims must be accompanied by original, contemporaneous, independent third party documentary evidence which must confirm the existence of the mitigating circumstances and state how the circumstances have impacted upon the student.
Please review Appendix A of the Mitigating Circumstances Policy MPhil/PhD students (PDF) for guidance on sources and types of documentary evidence.
The submission of a claim for mitigating circumstances does not mean that the claim will be automatically accepted by the Mitigating Circumstances Panel (MCP).
The Panel will take into account the following factors:
The Mitigating Circumstances Panel review applications on a rolling basis throughout the year.
To ensure timely consideration, it is strongly recommended that Mitigating Circumstances applications are submitted at least one week before the relevant deadline.
Applications submitted beyond this timeframe will be rejected unless a valid reason for the delay is provided.
In such cases, the Chair may consider the request under Chair’s Action.
Any concerns or queries regarding late submission of elements described in 7.2 of the policy, should in the first instance be discussed with your respective Student Support Officer (DS).
All such conversations are considered in absolute confidence.
Extensions cannot be agreed in advance by your supervisor.
Mitigating circumstances relate to non-academic problems only.
Any difficulties with the organisation or operation of programmes of study should be dealt with via the Student Complaints Procedure (PDF) .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/enterprise:
SOAS is a world-renowned academic institution, uniquely positioned to analyse, interpret and respond to some of the most challenging issues facing your organisation today.
Our focus on the politics, languages, cultures and societies of Africa, Asia and the Middle East —we have the largest concentration of such expertise in Europe—means that there has never been a more important time to engage with SOAS’s research and global networks.
The Enterprise team is here to link up governments, business, NGOs and other organisations with the wealth of expertise SOAS has to offer, and to ensure through wide-ranging and flexible support that each client’s needs are fully understood and met.
We ensure every step of your partnership runs smoothly, and work with you to identify and access further funding, advise on legal and contractual issues, broker relationships and provide general support for the project.
SOAS also supports students to develop their entrepreneurial skills and launch sustainable enterprises through delivering diverse enterprise activities throughout the academic year.
We offer a 6-week pre-accelerator programme, masterclasses, workshops, funding competitions, expert mentoring and networking opportunities.
We provide tailored briefings for global charities, senior diplomats or staff members being posted to Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
The Enterprise Office helps to match clients’ needs to the most appropriate expertise within SOAS.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) scheme helps businesses in the UK to innovate and grow.
It does this by linking them with a university and a graduate.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/enterprise/consultancy:
The Enterprise Office helps to match clients’ needs to the most appropriate expertise within SOAS, scoping projects and facilitating dialogue to ensure objectives and deliverables are clearly identified and the work delivered is relevant, timely and to a high standard.
Each project is different, but there is a strong international focus in all of our work and a great deal of it relates to our core areas of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
SOAS experts provide relevant and up-to-date insights for the public and private sectors through a range of consultancy projects, helping clients to shape policies, evaluate impact and make informed decisions.
We are regularly approached by central and local government, the media, public agencies, business and industry.
We also work with multilateral organisations including the United Nations and the World Bank, European Commission and other country-specific organisations and NGOs.
SOAS is an institution with a very specific expertise and this expertise is highly in demand.
Some of the consultancy activities we are able to carry out include:
To get an idea of past consultancy projects we have contributed to take a look at our consultancy case studies.
For SOAS staff who wish to find out more about how they can get involved in consultancy projects, please visit the Consultancy Information for SOAS Staff page.
If you have any queries about consultancy at SOAS, please get in touch with a member of the team by emailing enterprise@soas.ac.uk .
Students at SOAS have access to multiple mentoring programs, workshops and funding opportunities to hone their entrepreneurial skills.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/enterprise/expert-briefings:
We have long-standing relationships with a number of overseas Ministries of Foreign Affairs and global charities who request tailored briefings for senior diplomats or staff members being posted to Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
They are a highly valued opportunity to talk to experts about specific issues affecting the region to ensure they are prepared for the particular challenges they will face on the ground.
Recipients of our expert briefings have said:
"Having now spent one week in Hong Kong in my new capacity as Sweden's Consul General here and in Macao, I can only underline that the two days I spent in London and at SOAS last week was the best possible preparation for me.
I would like to stress that the briefings you arranged made it possible for me to discuss issues and learn things that cannot be found in books or newspaper articles.
To be able to "pick the brains" of your briefers was certainly a privilege.
I particularly appreciated that all the briefers were generous enough to share with me names of useful contacts in Hong Kong that I can use in my professional activities.
And some of the briefers have even promised to see me next time they are in Hong Kong!
That is what I call establishing a long-term relationship."
- Swedish Ambassador to Hong Kong
"Excellent course with broadly the right mix of topics and expert speakers.
Stimulating, allowed for open discussion, and overall a great way to prepare for the new job".
- Economic Adviser, DFID-Malawi
"Well done - the seminar was spot-on.
The day was an extremely useful introduction which gave great perspective...
I only wish I could have had a longer seminar."
- Diplomat from Ireland following China seminar
"I would like to thank you very much for an excellent briefing which you arranged for me and my husband at SOAS.
We were filled with exciting new information and insights of the West Africa region.
The two lunches were also excellent and I think we all enjoyed the presence of the Senegalese ambassador."
- Swedish Ambassador following a two-day Africa briefing

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/enterprise/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
The scheme is part funded by a government grant.
A KTP enables a business to bring in new skills and the latest academic thinking from SOAS to deliver a specific, strategic innovation project through a knowledge-based partnership.
We can help you:
If you partner with SOAS, we will help to recruit a suitable graduate, known as an Associate.
We will employ the Associate, but they will be based at your premises, working with you in the same way as any other member of your team.
KTPs are strategic projects – the purpose of the partnership is to embed knowledge and expertise to make a real difference to how the company works in the future.
The scheme can last between 12 and 36 months, depending on what the project is and the needs of your business.
At SOAS, we have staff dedicated to working with you to make connections within SOAS, scope out the project, put together your application, and ensure that your KTP runs smoothly once awarded.
If you are interested in partnering with SOAS on a KTP, please get in contact with the Enterprise team.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/enterprise/student-enterprise:
Alongside the Students Union , the Enterprise team facilitates the launch of several sustainable enterprises .
Our goal is to nurture our young entrepreneurs and help them secure the necessary grants and mentoring to bring their passion projects to life.
For more details Current Students can visit Student Enterprise on MySOAS.
We deliver a 6-week pre-accelerator programme designed to help build your business from scratch.
The pre-accelerator helps students come together and explore entrepreneurship, learn the key fundamentals of business whilst forming teams to develop a startup idea.
We offer expert workshops, masterclasses and mentoring to take your business concept to a minimum viable product.
Additionally, we offer students with already established businesses the opportunity to grow and optimize their Enterprises through our Accelerator Program.
In partnership with Youth Beyond Borders, Student Enterprise at SOAS helped 18 female entrepreneurs secure spots on The Social Enterprise Course which is a a 10-Week incubator program that grants students expert mentoring as well as substantial funding.
By the end of March 2024 the student entrepreneurs were hosted for a student showcase that allowed them to share the social impact of their business ideas to prospective investors.
SOAS graduates go on to do amazing things in a variety of sectors.
Discover all the ways the Students' Union can support you to make your time at SOAS the best it can be.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international:
With students from over 135 countries represented on campus, we are one of the most international universities in the UK.
Here at SOAS, you'll find yourself a home away from home.
If you have an enquiry about a course, or our entry requirements, you can speak directly to a member of our International Recruitment team.
Take a look inside our lecture halls, explore the library, visit our student social hubs and find out what it's really like to study at SOAS with our new virtual tour experience.
All applicants must be able to show that their English is of a high enough standard to successfully engage with and complete their course at SOAS.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country:
SOAS’s student population of more than 5500 includes international students from more than 133 countries, yet our relatively small size ensures that we offer a friendly and welcoming environment.
Please select your country or region from the list below.
We also have information available for international students already in the UK .
If your country isn't on the list please contact us directly on study@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-argentina:
We have gathered specific information for Argentine students interested in studying at SOAS.
Please feel free to contact the Student Recruitment Office for more information about applying to SOAS from Argentina: study@soas.ac.uk
If you are visiting London please do not hesitate to drop by for a chat.
These are guidelines only and do not guarantee entry.
Each application will be judged on its own merits.
Students who have completed recognised international qualifications, such as the International Baccalaureate, A-Levels or AP examinations, will be considered for direct entry to undergraduate programmes.
For more information, please view our undergraduate entry requirements .
Applicants from Argentina who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS will consider all applicants holding the equivalent of UK Lower Second-Class Honours undergraduate degree.
For more information, please view our postgraduate entry requirements .
In addition, you should check the individual programme of study for any specific academic requirements.
Research applicants would normally be expected to have completed a Masters qualification from a good university.
English language proficiency
Applicants whose first language is not English will normally have to provide evidence of their English language proficiency.
Please check the English language requirements page for detailed information.
SOAS does offer English summer courses ( pre-sessionals ) for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements so that students have the opportunity to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree, could consider applying for one of the foundation degrees offered at the SOAS IFCELS centre.
Students can improve their English while studying academic courses in an area of their choice, including Development Studies, International Business, Media and Communication and International Politics.
SOAS offers a wide-range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students.
A number of scholarships are also provided by the University of London, the British Government and other external organisations, for a list please visit scholarships and bursaries .
The SOAS Careers Service is part of the Careers Group, University of London, which is the biggest careers service in the country.
The Careers Service provides a range of services including a careers information library, career counselling services and various events throughout the year, to help with career choice, job hunting, applications and interviews.
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alum to ask any questions then please visit SOAS alumni.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-australia:
We have gathered specific information for Australian students interested in studying at SOAS.
Please feel free to contact the Student Recruitment Office for more information about applying to SOAS from Australia: study@soas.ac.uk
Applicants from Australia who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Australia.
Please contact them directly for more information about applying to SOAS.
The SOAS Careers Service is part of The Careers Group, University of London , which is the biggest careers service in the country.
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alum to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-bahrain:
We are happy to help with any questions you might have about studying at SOAS.
You can contact the International Office using study@soas.ac.uk or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (Middle East and Africa), via lc62@soas.ac.uk .
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Middle East region can be found in our events listings.
Applicants from Bahrain who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Please check our English language requirements for detailed information.
SOAS offers English pre-sessional summer courses which allow students who do not meet the exact entry requirements to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the undergraduate or postgraduate foundation courses offered at the SOAS IFCELS centre.
Students can improve their English while studying academic courses in areas including Development Studies, International Business, Media and Communication and International Politics.
SOAS offers a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students, including the International Postgraduate Scholarship .
A number of scholarships are also provided by the University of London, the British Government and other external organisations.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Bahrain who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.
The SOAS Careers Service is part of The Careers Group, University of London , which is the largest higher education careers and employability service in Europe.
It provides a range of services and various events throughout the year to help with career choice, job hunting, applications and interview preparation.
Students can also get help to find volunteering and employment opportunities during their studies.
SOAS has a global alumni network including tens of thousands of former students.
If you would like to contact alumni to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-bangladesh:
We have gathered specific information for Bangladeshi students interested in studying at SOAS.
If you would like to contact Durgha Ramji , our International Recruitment and Conversion Manager for South Asia, please email her directly at dr24@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS staff make regular overseas visits to meet with students interested in studying at SOAS.
For more information please see events in your country .
The below are guidelines only and do not guarantee entry.
Applicants from Bangladesh who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Bangladesh.
Please contact them directly for further details about applying to SOAS.
The SOAS Careers Service is part of The Careers Group, University of London, which is the biggest careers service in the country.
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alum to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-belgium:
We are happy to help with any questions you might have about studying at SOAS.
You can contact the International Office via study@soas.ac.uk , or view Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in Europe on our listings for events in your country.
Please check our English language requirements for accepted tests and alternative qualifications.
SOAS offers English pre-sessional summer courses for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements which allow to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alum to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Belgium.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-brazil:
We've gathered specific information for Brazilian students interested in studying at SOAS.
Please feel free to contact the Student Recruitment Office for more information about applying to SOAS from Brazil: study@soas.ac.uk
Applicants from Brazil who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-brunei-darussalam:
We have gathered specific information for Bruneian students interested in studying at SOAS.
Phone : +44 (0)20 7898 4700 Email : study@soas.ac.uk
You can meet and talk to our staff at exhibitions held in Brunei; find our upcoming visits in our listings for events in your country
Applicants from Brunei Darussalam who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Applicants with an upper second class (or equivalent) bachelor’s degree from a good university will be considered for entry to a SOAS master’s degree.
In addition you should check the individual programme of study for any specific academic requirements; please refer to the postgraduate prospects or postgraduate entry requirements .
Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate they meet SOAS’ English Language entry requirements .
For students who do not meet the exact entry requirement SOAS offers excellent Pre-Sessional and Summer English language courses which can help to achieve the required language proficiency.
SOAS offers a number of scholarships and bursaries and there are other external scholarships .
The prestigious Alphawood Scholarship is available to students resident in Brunei.
Eligible courses of study include programmes within the Department of History of Art and Archaeology and MA South East Asian Studies and MA Asian Pacific Studies where the major course relates to Southeast Asian art.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-bulgaria:
Applicants whose first language is not English are normally required to provide evidence of their English language proficiency.
SOAS offers English pre-sessional summer courses for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements which allow students to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS offers a wide-range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students, including the International Postgraduate Scholarship .
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alum to ask any questions, please see SOAS alumni

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-cambodia:
We have gathered specific information for Cambodian students interested in studying at SOAS.
Please feel free to contact the Student Recruitment Office for more information about applying to SOAS:
Phone: +44 (0)20 7898 4700 Email: study@soas.ac.uk
If you would like to contact Alberto Demo, our International Recruitment Manager for South Asia and South-East Asia, please email him directly at ad101@soas.ac.uk
SOAS staff travel overseas regularly to meet with students who are interested in studying at SOAS.
For more information, please see events in your country
Applicants from Cambodia who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
In-country representatives
SOAS works with the following in-country educational representatives in Cambodia.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-canada:
We have gathered specific information for students from Canada.
SOAS will consider all applicants holding the equivalent of a UK Lower Second-Class Honours undergraduate degree.
Research applicants would normally be expected to have completed a Master's qualification from a good university.
SOAS has a fully integrated ‘Study Abroad’ programme for both undergraduates and postgraduates, where students can study at the School for either the Fall or Spring semester or a full academic year as part of their degree at another institution.
More information and an application form can be found in our Study Abroad section or by contacting studyabroad@soas.ac.uk
SOAS offers a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students.
There are other scholarships provided by the University of London, the British Government and other external organisations.
For further information please see Scholarships .
For other scholarship opportunities please visit the Government of Canada International Scholarships website.
If you apply for a visa before you arrive in the UK then you should be eligible to work part-time or volunteer during your programme of study.
This visa will allow you to work part-time during the term (up to 20 hours a week) and any number of hours during the vacations.
However, you should check before you apply for a job that your visa will allow you to do this particular kind of work.
Please be aware that to meet immigration rules for students, you have to show that you have enough money to support yourself during your studies without needing to work.
For comprehensive advice on working in the UK, please visit the UKCISA website: www.ukcisa.org.uk
The SOAS Careers Service can help you find volunteering opportunities and can provide information and advice on finding paid employment during your studies and after graduation.
There will be a number of jobs (both voluntary and paid) within SOAS itself (for example, in the Students’ Union or cafe) and you can look out for these opportunities through the Careers Service or via the Students’ Union .
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alum to ask any questions, please see SOAS alumni .
SOAS works with SI-UK Education Council in Canada and you can contact them directly to ask any questions about applying to and studying at SOAS.
Study in UK (SI-UK) North America - Toronto 14th Floor, 333 Bay St Toronto, M5H 2R2 Ontario, Canada
Study in UK (SI-UK) North America - Vancouver 1055 W Georgia St Vancouver, BC V6E 3N9 Canada
Bright Can-Achieve - Vancouver 333 Seymour Vancouver, BC V6B 5A6
Bright Can-Achieve - Ontario
iae Global - Toronto Unit 602, 2323 Yonge Street, Toronto, ON M4P 2C9

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-china:
We have gathered specific information for students from or currently living in China, who are interested in studying at SOAS.
Currently there are 300 students from China studying at the School.
We are delighted to answer any questions you may have about applying to, and studying at, SOAS.
If you would like to get in touch with Maggie Dziem , Head of International Recruitment and Regional Manager for China, HK and Tawian, you can email her directly ( md73@soas.ac.uk ) or through the following apps:
Further information on upcoming visits can be found in our listings for events in your country.
You can also follow us on Weibo or our Chinese microsite , our Bilibili and WeChat:英国伦敦大学亚非学院SOAS, Douyin:英国伦敦大学亚非学院SOAS.
Each application will be judged on its own merits with your academic qualifications, personal statement and your references all being considered carefully.
Applicants offering either ‘A’ levels or the IB Diploma will be considered in the same way as UK applicants.
For details of the IB and A-Level requirements for individual degree programmes please refer to the undergraduate entry requirements .
We do accept the Chinese High School Certificate and Gaokao for direct entry to a SOAS undergraduate degree.
Our entry requirements are:
If your Gaokao and High School grades are significantly below the required scores, you can consider applying for our International Foundation programme (ICC) delivered by the International Foundation Courses and English Language Studies Centre (IFCELS).
Details can be found at IFCELS.
We accept students who have completed a Chinese High School and have taken Ambright's ASTs (Aptitude Scholastic Tests).
The entry requirements are as follows:
Applications from students who have completed first year undergraduate study in a relevant subject from a recognised Chinese university may also be considered.
Information about how to apply can be found on the undergraduate admissions pages and on the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) website .
SOAS welcomes applications from those with a good Lower Second Class degree (2:2) or above in their UK Bachelor degree.
Applicants with a Bachelors degree from a C9 or a Double First Class university in China will be considered for entry if they have a minimum passing grade of 73%-75% or GPA 2.5-2.6/4.0.
Graduates from non C9 or Double First Class institutions will be considered for entry if they have a minimum grade of 75% or GPA 2.9/4.0.
Relevant work experience may also be considered.
References for the majority of our postgraduate taught courses are not required.
In addition, applicants should also refer to the individual programme entries in the Graduate Prospectus or postgraduate entry requirements , which may have additional requirements.
Applicants to MPhil/PhD programmes should have an excellent master’s degree.
Please note that you are expected to have a demonstrable background in the area of research you would like to pursue.
Applicants whose first language is not English must show that their level of English is sufficient to follow an academic programme in English.
For more information please visit the English entry requirements page.
SOAS does offer English ‘ pre-sessional ’ course for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements, so that students have the opportunity to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in China, many of whom have offices in Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities.
You can contact them directly for further details.
If you have any comments about these representatives please contact Maggie Dziem: md73@soas.ac.uk
SOAS offers a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students from across the world.
For current information on scholarships, please see scholarships .
Each year SOAS welcomes students who have been awarded scholarships from external organisations.
For China, the Chevening has been popular source of funding for high achieving scholars.
SOAS has recently launched two new scholarships Chinese students can apply for:
If you have more questions regarding these scholarships, please contact Maggie Dziem: md73@soas.ac.uk
Some popular courses studied by our Chinese students include:
If you have any questions for SOAS alumni in China then please contact the alumni association through SOAS alumni .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-colombia:
We have gathered specific information for Colombian students interested in studying at SOAS
Please feel free to contact the Student Recruitment Office for more information about applying to SOAS from Colombia: study@soas.ac.uk
Applicants from Colombia who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the foundation degrees offered at the SOAS IFCELS centre.
SOAS offers a wide range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students.
Students from Colombia, are particularly invited to consider the Global Excellence Scholarship .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-czech-republic:
We have gathered specific information for Czech students interested in studying at SOAS.
For upcoming visits to the Czech Republic, please see events in your country.
Applicants from Czech Republic who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Czech students who are eligible for UK/EU fees can also apply for a loan from Student Finance .
The loan covers your tuition fees, is paid direct to SOAS and does not need to be paid back until after you complete your studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-denmark:
Email : study@soas.ac.uk Phone : +44 (0)20 7898 4700
Applicants whose first language is not English may have to provide evidence of their English language proficiency.
Please check our English language requirements for detailed information about acceptable tests and alternative qualifications.
The SOAS Careers Service is part of T he Careers Group, University of London , which is the biggest careers service in the country.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-egypt:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (Middle East and Africa): lc62@soas.ac.uk
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Middle East and North Africa region can be found in our listings for events in your country.
Applicants from Egypt who have completed the Certificate of General Secondary Education will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the undergraduate and postgraduate foundation courses offered through the IFCELS centre at SOAS.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Egypt who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.
If you would like to contact alumni to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-ethiopia:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (Middle East & Africa): lc62@soas.ac.uk .
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Sub-Saharan Africa region can be found in our listings for events in your country.
Applicants who have completed the Ethiopian School Leaving Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS also offers English pre-sessional summer courses which allow students who do not meet the exact entry requirements to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
Applicants who do not meet the above requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the undergraduate and postgraduate foundation courses offered at the SOAS IFCELS centre.
SOAS works with the following local representatives in Ethiopia who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-france:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (MENAT & Europe): lc62@soas.ac.uk
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in Europe can be found in our listings for events in your country .
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in France.
The SOAS Careers Service can help you to find volunteering opportunities and can provide information and advice on finding paid employment during your studies and after graduation.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-germany:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk) or email Alberto Demo, International Recruitment Manager (Americas, Europe, Japan and Korea): ad101@soas.ac.uk .
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place Europe can be found in our listings for events in your country.
Students who have completed the German Abitur, or recognised international qualifications, such as the International Baccalaureate, A-Levels or AP examinations, will be considered for direct entry to undergraduate programmes.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Germany.
SOAS has alumni from all over the world.
If you would like to contact an alum to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-ghana:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (Middle East and Africa): lc62@soas.ac.uk .
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Sub-Saharan Africa region can be found in our listings for events in your country
Applicants from Ghana who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS also offers English pre-sessional summer courses which allow students who do not meet the exact entry requirements to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
Applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the undergraduate and postgraduate foundation courses offered at the SOAS IFCELS centre.
SOAS offers a number of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students, including the International Postgraduate Scholarship .
SOAS works with the following local representatives in Ghana who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.
If you would like to contact alumni to ask any questions, please visit SOAS Alumni.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-greece:
• The British Council is the British Government's international organization for educational and cultural relations.
Their website is designed for those seeking information and advice on education and contemporary arts in the UK.
• Education UK is produced by the British Council to help international students interested in a UK course or qualification.
• UKCISA - The UK Council for International Students Affairs provides information on many aspects of studying overseas, including visas and working while studying.
• The UK Visa & Immigration service also has up to date information on immigration and visa requirements.
• UCAS - The Universities and Colleges Admission Service is the body through which all applications for undergraduate study must be made • The British Embassy in Greece may also be able to help you with information about travelling to the UK.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-hong-kong:
We have gathered specific information for students from or currently living in Hong Kong interested in studying at SOAS.
There are 26 new students from Hong Kong currently studying at the School.
We are delighted to answer any questions you may have about applying and studying at SOAS.
If you would like to get in touch with Maggie Dziem , our International Recruitment Manager for China and East Asia, you can email her directly ( md73@soas.ac.uk ) or through the following apps:
For further information on upcoming visits, please see events in your country.
.
You can follow us on our Twitter and Facebook .
You can also follow us on Weibo or our Chinese microsite , our Bilibili and WeChat:英国伦敦大学亚非学院教育SOAS, Douyin:英国伦敦大学亚非学院SOAS.
SOAS welcomes applicants taking the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE), the International Baccalaureate (IB), A-Level and other qualifications.
For details of the IB requirements for individual degree programmes please refer to our undergraduate entry requirements .
Our HKDSE entry requirements are:
SOAS welcomes applications from those with a good Lower Second Class degree (2:2) or above in their Bachelor degree.
Whilst graduates from a Hong Kong University are expected to have a minimum 2.7/4.0 GPA (75% overall grade or overall B minus) we are happy to consider a minimum 2.5/4.0 GPA.
In addition, applicants should also refer to the individual programme entries in the postgraduate prospectus or postgraduate entry requirements , which may have additional requirements.
Research applicants would normally be expected to have completed a Masters qualification equivalent to a UK Masters degree from a good university.
Applicants whose first language is not English must also show their level of English.
For more information please visit English entry requirements .
SOAS does offer English summer courses (‘pre-sessionals’) for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements so that students have the opportunity to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
For 2024 entry onward, SOAS will accept HKDSE English Level 4 as sufficient proof of English proficiency.
Students achieving Level 4 or above will be SELT-exempt.
Students who completed their undergraduate programmes delivered fully in English at one of the approved HK universities can be SELT-exempt.
The list of approved universities includes:
SOAS has a fully integrated ‘Study Abroad’ programme for both undergraduates and postgraduates, where students can study at the School for either the Fall or Spring semester or a full academic year as part of their degree at another university.
More information and an application form can be found in our Semester Abroad and Exchange section or please contact studyabroad@soas.ac.uk
SOAS has recently launched a new International Postgraduate Scholarship for East Asia .
For comprehensive advice on working in the UK, please visit the UKCISA website: www.ukcisa.org.uk
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Hong Kong.
Contact them direct for further details:
If you have any comments about these representatives, or if you are a prospective agent looking to work with SOAS, please contact Maggie Dziem , our International Recruitment Manager for China and East Asia, email: m.dziem@soas.ac.uk or through the following apps:
If you have any questions for SOAS alumni in Hong Kong then please contact the alumni association through SOAS alumni

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-india:
We have gathered specific information for Indian students interested in studying at SOAS.
We are delighted to answer any questions you might have about applying to and studying at SOAS.
You may also contact Sushant Arora or Mitika Tiwari , our international recruitment team based in New Delhi and book a 1-1 in-person or virtual appointment with them - please email india@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS staff regularly travel overseas or attend virtual events to meet with students who are interested in studying at SOAS.
More information can be found in our listings for events in your country .
These below are guidelines only and do not guarantee entry.
Indian School Certificate (ISCE or CBSE) with at least five subjects.
An overall percentage of 85% will be considered as equivalent to AAA at ‘A’ level.
Applicants offering either ‘A’ levels or the IB Diploma will also be considered.
In addition you should check the individual programme of study for any specific academic requirements.
For further information, see undergraduate entry requirements .
Applicants with a second class upper (or equivalent) bachelor’s degree from a good university will be considered for entry to a SOAS master’s degree.
SOAS offers a wide-range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students, including the International Postgraduate Scholarship , which is open to all full-time Masters students from India.
SOAS also works with the following local representatives in India and you can contact them directly with any questions about applying to and studying at SOAS.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-indonesia:
We have gathered specific information for Indonesian students interested in studying at SOAS.
Applicants from Indonesia who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with the following in-country educational representatives in Indonesia.
Please contact them directly for more information on applying to SOAS.
SOAS offers a number of scholarships and bursaries and there are other external scholarships funded by the University of London, the British Government and other organisations.
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact SOAS alumni in Indonesia please visit SOAS alumni ..
If you would like to contact Charlotte Greenwood , our International Recruitment Manager for South-East Asia, please email her directly at cg52@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS staff regularly travel overseas to meet with students who are interested in studying at SOAS.
More information can be found on our listings for events in your country

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-iran:
You can contact the International Office using study@soas.ac.uk or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (MENAT & Europe): lc62@soas.ac.uk
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Middle East region can be found in our listings for events in your country
Applicants from Iran who have completed the Iranian High School Diploma may be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-israel:
You can contact the International Office using study@soas.ac.uk or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (MENAT & Europe), via lc62@soas.ac.uk .
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Middle East region can be found in our listings for events in your country .
Students whose first language is not English will normally have to provide evidence of their English language proficiency.
Please check the English language requirements for detailed information.
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying to one of the undergraduate and postgraduate foundation courses offered through the SOAS IFCELS centre.
International students can improve their English while studying academic courses in areas including Development Studies, International Business, Media and Communication and International Politics.
A number of other scholarships are also provided by the University of London, the British Government and other external organisations.
It provides a number of services and various events throughout the year to help with career choice, job hunting, applications and interview preparation.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-italy:
This page contains specific information for students from Italy.
Email: study@soas.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)20 7898 4700
If you would like to contact Alberto Demo , our International Recruitment Manager for Italy, please email him directly at ad101@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS works with the following local representatives in Italy who can support you with applying and any questions you might have:
Italian students who are eligible for UK/EU fees can also apply for a loan from Student Finance .
SOAS has Erasmus exchange agreements with a number of universities in Italy through which undergraduate and postgraduate students can study for one year or one semester at SOAS as part of their degree.
More information can be found on the Socrates/ Erasmus pages.
In the first instance students should speak to the exchanges or international office in their university for application details.
If your university does not have an exchange agreement with SOAS then you can still apply to spend one semester or one year at SOAS as part of your undergraduate degree on the 'Study Abroad' programme.
Further information and an application form can be found in our Study Abroad and Exchange section or please contact studyabroad@soas.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-japan:
We have gathered specific information for Japanese students interested in studying at SOAS.
If you have any questions about our programmes, entry requirements or the application process, please get in touch with Alberto Demo , our International Recruitment Manager for Japan, you can email him directly ( ad101@soas.ac.uk ) or through the following apps:
SOAS visits Japan at least twice a year to attend education fairs, visit schools and universities and meet with students interested in studying at SOAS.
Further information on upcoming visits can be found in our listings for events in your country
The Japanese High School leaving certificate is not sufficient for entry to a SOAS undergraduate degree.
Applicants from Japan would be expected to offer, either instead or in addition, one of the following:
Please see the individual undergraduate degree programme descriptions for specific course requirements.
Information about how to apply can be found on our How to Apply (UG) page and on the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) website .
To be considered for a place on a Taught Masters programme SOAS requires a bachelor's degree (Gakushi, 4-6 years) from a recognised university with a classification equivalent to a UK Lower Division Second Class.
For more details, please visit our postgraduate entry requirements section.
The masters degree (shushi 修士) is acceptable for entry to a research degree.
In addition to the above minimum entry requirements, you should also refer to any additional criteria your chosen programme may have.
This will be highlighted on the individual programme web pages.
For more information please read our English entry requirements .
SOAS has exchange agreements with a number of universities in Japan through which undergraduate students can study for one year at SOAS as part of their degree.
In the first instance, students should speak to the exchanges or international office in their university for application details.
Further information and an application form can be found in our Study Abroad section or please contact studyabroad@soas.ac.uk
SOAS works with SI-UK Education Council & beo in Japan and you can contact them directly to ask any questions about applying to and studying at SOAS.
SOAS offers a wide range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students, including the International Postgraduate Scholarship .
A number of scholarships are also provided by the University of London, the British Government and other external organisations, for a list please visit Scholarships and Bursaries .
For comprehensive advice on working in the UK, please visit the UKCISA website .
If you have any questions for an alum of SOAS currently living in Japan then you are welcome to contact the SOAS Alumni Association in Japan (SAIJ).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-jordan:
You can contact the International Office using study@soas.ac.uk or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (MENAT and Europe): lc62@soas.ac.uk
Applicants from Jordan who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS offers English pre-sessional summer courses which allow students who do not meet the exact requirements to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS is very pleased to be a university partner of the Said Foundation which offers fully-funded Master's scholarships for outstanding individuals from the Levant region.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Jordan who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-kazakhstan:
We have gathered specific information for Kazakh students interested in studying at SOAS.
Applicants from Kazakhstan who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with the following local representatives who can support you with applying or any questions you might have.
The SOAS Careers Service is part of the The Careers Group, University of London, which is the biggest careers service in the country.
• UCAS - The Universities and Colleges Admission Service is the body through which all applications for undergraduate study must be made • The British Embassy in Kazakhstan may also be able to help you with information about travelling to the UK.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-kenya:
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Sub-Saharan Africa region can be found on our listings for events in your country .
Applicants from Kenya who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS also offers English pre-sessional summer courses which allow students who do not meet the exact entry requirements to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Kenya who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.
The SOAS Careers Service is part of the The Careers Group, University of London , which is the largest higher education careers and employability service in Europe.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-kuwait:
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Middle East region can be found in our listings for events in your country.
Applicants from Kuwait who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS also offers English pre-sessional summer courses which allow students who do not meet the exact entry requirements to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the undergraduate and postgraduate foundation courses offered at the SOAS IFCELS centre.
Students can improve their English while studying academic courses in an areas including Development Studies, International Business, Media and Communication and International Politics.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Kuwait who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-lebanon:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk ) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (MENAT & Europe): lc62@soas.ac.uk
Applicants from Lebanon who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Applicants whose first language is not English will normally need provide evidence of their English language proficiency.
SOAS offers English pre-sessional summer courses for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements which allow students to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the undergraduate or postgraduate foundation courses offered through the IFCELS centre at SOAS.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Lebanon who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.
If you would like to contact alumni to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-lithuania:
We have gathered specific information for Lithuanian students interested in studying at SOAS.
For further information on upcoming visits, please see events in your country .
Applicants from Lithuania who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS also works with the following local representatives and you can contact them directly with any questions about applying to and studying at SOAS.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-malaysia:
We have gathered specific information for Malaysian students interested in studying at SOAS.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Malaysia.
Applicants from Malaysia who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS offers a some scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students.
For a full list please visit scholarships and bursaries .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-mexico:
We have gathered specific information for Mexican students interested in studying at SOAS.
If you have any questions about our programmes, entry requirements, or the application process, please get in touch with Alberto Demo , our International Recruitment Manager for Mexico.
You can email him directly ( ad101@soas.ac.uk )
If you're visiting London please do not hesitate to drop by for a chat.
SOAS staff occasionally visit Mexico.
Future dates and locations can be found in our listings for events in your country .
Applicants from Mexico who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS offers a wide range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students, including the SOAS Master’s Scholarships (International) , and the Global Excellent Scholarships .
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alumni to ask any questions then please visit the SOAS alumni website.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-morocco:
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Middle East and North Africa region can be found in our listings for events in your country .
Applicants from Morocco who have completed the Moroccan Baccalaureate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS also offers English pre-sessional summer courses which allow students who do not meet the exact entry requirements to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS works with the following local representatives in Morocco who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-nepal:
We have gathered specific information for Nepalese students interested in studying at SOAS.
SOAS Staff make regular overseas visits to meet students who are interested in studying at SOAS.
More information can be found in our listings for events in your country.
Thesse are guidelines only and do not guarantee entry.
Applicants from Nepal who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Nepal.
SOAS does offer English summer courses ( pre-sessionals courses ) for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements so that students have the opportunity to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alumni to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-nigeria:
You can contact our In-Country Representative via email: nigeria@soas.ac.uk .
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Sub-Saharan Africa region can be found in our events in your country listings.
Applicants from Nigeria who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Nigeria who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.
It provides a range of services and various events throughout the year to help with career choice, job hunting, applications and interview preparation.
If you would like to contact alumni to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-norway:
SOAS welcomes applications from holders of the Vitnemål for direct entry to undergraduate programmes.
For full details please refer to the undergraduate entry requirements .
A score of 5 in the English component of the Vitnemål will satisfy our English language requirements for undergraduate entry.
Postgraduate applicants will be assessed on a case by case basis.
After registration, students who have submitted this evidence, will meet a member of the academic English support staff to discuss whether attendance on an in-sessional English language course would be beneficial.
If you are a current Bachelors or Masters student in Norway you can study at SOAS for a semester or a full year on our study abroad programme .
We currently have study abroad agreements with the following:
For further information contact: studyabroad@soas.ac.uk .
The SOAS Finance Department accepts fee payment in two installments for Norwegian students who are in receipt of a loan/grant from Lanekassen.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-oman:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk ) or contact Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (MENAT & Europe): lc62@soas.ac.uk .
Applicants from Oman who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
A number of scholarships are also provided by the University of London, the British Government and other external organisations.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Oman who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-pakistan:
We have gathered specific information for Pakistani students interested in studying at SOAS.
SOAS staff travel regularly overseas to meet with students who are interested in studying at SOAS.
Please refer to the undergraduate entry requirements for the minimum grades required for each subject.
The Pakistan High School leaving certificate is not sufficient for entry to a SOAS undergraduate degree.
However, the International Foundation Courses and English Language Studies Centre (IFCELS) at SOAS offers a preparatory year for international students seeking entry to undergraduate degrees at British universities.
Details can be found at IFCELS .
Applications from students who have already completed a BA or BComm from a university in Pakistan will also be welcome; they should have gained at least a Division I (60% or above).
See how to apply at SOAS, more information on the subject is available on the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) website .
Four Year Bachelor Degree from the following institutions with a minimum First Division or CGPA 3.0 or 60%
Three Year Bachelor Degree followed by 1 Year Master's Degree from the following institutions with a minimum First Division or CGPA 3.0 or 60%
Two Year Bachelor Degree followed by 2 Year Master's Degree from the following institutions with a minimum First Division or CGPA 3.0 or 60%
Pakistan Institute of Engineering Sciences - Aga Khan University - Quaid-I-Azam University - National University of Sciences & Technology - Lahore University of Management Sciences - COMSATS - University of Karachi - University of the Punjab - University of Agriculture - University of Engineering & Technology - Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University - University of Health Sciences - University of Sindh - University of Peshawar - Lahore School of Economics
Four Year Bachelor Degree from any other NARIC/HEC approved institutions with a minimum First Division or CGPA 3.3 or 65%
Three Year Bachelor Degree followed by 1 Year Master's Degree from any other NARIC/HEC approved institutions with a minimum First Division or CGPA 3.3 or 65%
Two Year Bachelor Degree followed by 2 Year Master's Degree from any other NARIC/HEC approved institutions with a minimum First Division or CGPA 3.3 or 65%
Applicants to MPhil/PhD programmes should have an excellent master’s degree, preferably from a UK university.
Any other application will need to make a strong case and secure the approval of the Associate Dean for Research.
There is more information about English language requirements .
For those students who do not quite meet the entry requirements, SOAS pre-sessional courses so that students have the opportunity to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Pakistan, many of whom have offices in the main cities.
If you have any comments about these representatives, please contact Alberto Demo: ad101@soas.ac.uk .
SOAS offers a range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students, including the International Postgraduate Scholarship , which is for all full-time Masters students from Pakistan.
There are also a number of scholarsips provided by the University of London, the British Government and other external organisations.
For a full list of these scholarships, please see scholarships and bursaries .
If you would like to ask an alumnus/a of SOAS any questions then you can contact alumni from Pakistan who would be happy to advise you.
Please visit SOAS alumni for contact details.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-poland:
SOAS works with the following local representatives in Poland who can support you with applying and any questions you might have:
SOAS has alumni all over the world, if you would like to contact an alum to ask any questions then please visit SOAS alumni .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-qatar:
Applicants from Qatar who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Qatar who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-republic-korea:
If you have any questions about our programmes, entry requirements, or the application process, please get in touch with Alberto Demo , our International Recruitment Manager for South Korea.
You can email him directly ( ad101@soas.ac.uk ) or through the following apps:
SOAS staff regularly visit South Korea.
Future dates and locations can be found in our listings for events in your country
Applicants from Korea who hold the Academic or Vocational High School Diploma will be required to complete a recognised University Foundation Programme.
The International Foundation Courses and English Language Studies Centre (IFCELS) at SOAS offers a 10-month University Foundation Programme (ICC) for international students who wish to undertake an undergraduate degree at a British university.
Students who have completed the International Baccalaureate (IB), A-Levels or AP examinations will be considered for direct entry to our undergraduate programmes.
SOAS welcomes applications from students who have completed a four-year Bachelor's degree with a cumulative GPA of 2.7/4.0 or 3.0/4.3 or 3.3/4.5 from a university with a selective admissions policy.
In addition, you should refer to the individual programme of study for any specific academic requirements, please go to the postgraduate prospectus or postgraduate entry requirements.
Please refer to Research degrees admissions for further information.
For applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree, SOAS provides a range of university preparation and language improvement programmes for international students.
Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate they meet the School's English language requirements .
SOAS does offer Pre-Sessional Courses for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements enabling students to have the opportunity to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
Undergraduate students from Korea can study at SOAS on Exchange or Study Abroad from the following universities:
Contact your university's International Office for application details.
If your university does not have an exchange agreement with SOAS you can still apply to spend one semester or one year at SOAS as part of your undergraduate degree on SOAS' Study Abroad programme.
SOAS offers a number of Scholarships and Bursaries and there are other external scholarships.
Korean students who are holding offers for postgraduate taught programmes, can apply for the SOAS Master’s Scholarships (International) .
SOAS works with a number of in-country representatives in Korea.
Please contact the representatives directly to ask any questions about applying to, and studying at SOAS.
edm 11F, Julguhwun Building, 18-55 Changchun-dong Seodaemun-gu Seoul, 120-833 Phone: 02 313 5195 Email: : bkkim@edmedu.com
iae Korea (Head Office) 2F, Seongwook Bldg #21 Yeoksam-ro 8-gil Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea 06250 Phone: : +82 2 3481 1217 Email: info@eduhouse.net
IDP Korea 12F S&G Tower 61 Seocho-daero 77gil Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06611, South Korea Phone: : 02 550 0335 Email: info.gangnam@idp.com
UK EDU CENTRE Rm 403 Handuk Building Teheranro 7gil 11 Gangnamgu Seoul 06134 Phone: +82 2 6052 1020 Email: info@ukcentre.co.kr
UKEN (UK Education Network) 607, Osung Bldg., 113 Yeoksam-ro Gangnam-gu Seoul, 06242 Phone : 02 2052 1221 Email : uken@uken.kr
SJC Global Education Consulting 612, Jungang-daero, 303-ho, Buk-gu, Daegu Seoul, 06242 Phone : +82 10-8577-8274 Email : serna@sjcglobal.net
PeopleLoving Education Room 302, 3rd floor, Gangnam Taeyoung Desian Louve, 455 Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul Phone : +82 02-566-9184 Email : seoul@peopleloving.co.kr
SAY International 7th floor, Tower 1, 33 Jongro, Jongro-gu, Seoul, South Korea (110-702) Phone : +82 02 6339 8243 Email : info@sayinternational.co.kr
If you would like to speak to an alum of Korea with any questions about studying at SOAS then you can contact Dr Yeonok Chang (PhD Musicology 2000), yonokchang@yahoo.co.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-russia:
This page contains specific information for students from Russia.
Details of any upcoming visits can be found in our listings for events in your country .
To ensure that you can fully benefit from your studies at SOAS, you will need to demonstrate that you meet our minimum English language entry requirements .
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree, could consider applying for one of the foundation programmes offered at the SOAS IFCELS centre.
For further information please visit Scholarships .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-saudi-arabia:
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Middle East region can be found on our listings for events in your country.
Applicants from Saudi Arabia who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS offers English pre-sessional summer courses which allow students who do not meet the exact entry requirements to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Saudi Arabia who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-singapore:
We have gathered specific information about studying at SOAS for students from Singapore.
If you would like to contact Monica Nyazika, our International Recruitment Manager, you can email her directly: mn40@soas.ac.uk
SOAS staff regularly travel overseas to meet with students interested in studying at SOAS.
Find out more about events in your country ..
These entry requirements are a guide only, and do not guarantee entry.
Please refer to the undergraduate entry requirements for more information.
Applicants with a second class (or equivalent) Bachelor’s degree from a good university will be considered for entry to a SOAS Master’s programme.
SOAS considers applicants from Singapore with a Cumulative Average Point of 3.3/4.0 GPA in a Bachelor's degree.
In addition to the above minimum entrance requirements, you should also refer to the individual programme entries in the postgraduate prospectus or on our postgraduate entry requirements .
Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate they meet SOAS’ English language entry requirements .
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Singapore.
SOAS offers a number of scholarships and bursaries and there are other external scholarships funded by the the University of London, British Government and other organisations.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-south-africa:
Applicants from South Africa who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with educational representatives, many of whom have offices in the main cities.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-spain:
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in Europe can be found in our listings for events in your country.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Spain.
• UCAS - The Universities and Colleges Admission Service is the body through which all applications for undergraduate study must be made • The British Embassy in Spain may also be able to help you with information about travelling to the UK.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-sri-lanka:
We have gathered specific information for Sri Lankan students interested in studying at SOAS.
More information can be found on our listings for events in your country .
Applicants from Sri Lanka who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS works with the following educational representatives in Sri Lanka.
SOAS does offer English summer courses (‘ pre-sessionals ’) for those who do not meet the exact entry requirements so that students have the opportunity to improve their language skills before beginning academic study.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-sweden:
This page contains specific information for students from Sweden.
Email : study@soas.ac.uk Phone: : +44 (0)20 7898 4700
For information on upcoming visits, please see events in your country.
SOAS FAQ for current and prospective EU students
Applicants from Sweden who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
SOAS accepts the Swedish Fullstandigt fran Gymnasieskolan (English) with a score of B for unconditional entry.
For more information, and to view our other acceptable English language qualifications, please see English language requirements .
EU students who are eligible for UK/EU fees can also apply for a loan from Student Finance .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-taiwan:
We have gathered specific information for Taiwanese students interested in studying at SOAS.
We currently have 29 new students from Taiwan studying at the School.
If you would like to get in touch with Maggie Dziem , our International Recruitment Head for China and East Asia, you can email her directly ( md73@soas.ac.uk ) or through the following apps:
We travels to Taiwan regularly and you can find out about forthcoming visits in our listings for events in your country
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in Taiwan and you can contact them directly with any questions about applying to and studying at SOAS:
The Taiwanese High School leaving certificate is not sufficient for entry to a SOAS undergraduate degree.
The International Foundation Courses and English Language Studies Centre ( IFCELS ) at SOAS offer a preparatory year for international students seeking entry to undergraduate degrees at British universities.
Further information can be found in our undergraduate entry requirements.
Applicants with a good lower second class (or equivalent) bachelor’s degree (the overall GPA of 68%-72% or 2.8-3.0/4.0) from a good university will be considered for entry to a SOAS master’s degree.
In addition you should check the individual programme of study for any specific academic requirements; please refer to the postgraduate prospectus or postgraduate entry requirements .
SOAS offers a wide-range of scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students, including the International Postgraduate Scholarship for East Asia , which is open to any Taiwanese Masters student studying full-time.
If you are interested in contacting an alumus of SOAS in Taiwan then please contact: Daniel Mojahedi (MA Chinese Studies 2008): daniel.moja@gmail.com .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-tanzania:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk ) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (Middle East and Africa): lc62@soas.ac.uk .
Applicants from Tanzania who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Postgraduate study
SOAS works with the following local representatives in Tanzania who can support you with applying and any questions you might have:
If you would like to contact alumni to ask any questions, please visit SOAS alumni

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-thailand:
We have gathered specific information for Thai students interested in studying at SOAS.
SOAS staff regularly visit Thailand to meet with students interested in studying at SOAS.
Further information can be found in our listings for events in your country.
Applicants from Thailand who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Research applicants would normally be expected to have completed a Masters qualification equivalent to a UK Masters degree.
There may also be other specific entrance requirements.
Please refer to Research degrees admissions.
SOAS works with the following in-country representatives in Thailand.
Please contact our representatives directly to ask any questions about applying to, and studying at SOAS.
The Office of the Civil Service Commission (OCSC) offers scholarships for Thai Master’s and Doctoral programmes at SOAS.
There will be a number of jobs (both voluntary and paid) within SOAS itself (for example, in the Students’ Union or cafe) and you can look out for these opportunities through the Careers Service or via the Students’ Union

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-netherlands:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk )or email Alberto Demo, International Recruitment Manager: ad101@soas.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-turkey:
You can contact the International Office (study@soas.ac.uk ) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (MENAT & Europe): lc62@soas.ac.uk
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place can be found in our listings for events in your country .
There is a strong SOAS alumni network all over the world, if you would like to contact SOAS alumni in Turkey please visit SOAS alumni .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-uganda:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk ) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (Middle East & Africa): lc62@soas.ac.uk
Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Sub-Saharan Africa region can be found in our listings for events in your country .
Applicants from Uganda who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the undergraduate and postgraduate foundation courses offered through the SOAS IFCELS centre.
SOAS works with the following local representatives in Uganda who can support you with applying and any questions you might have:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-united-arab-emirates:
You can contact the International Office ( study@soas.ac.uk ) or email Laura Connaway, International Recruitment Manager (MENAT & Europe): lc62@soas.ac.uk Information about upcoming visits and virtual events taking place in the Middle East region can be found in our listings for events in your country.
Applicants from UAE who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
Those applicants who do not meet the above entry requirements or would like to improve their English language before studying for a degree could consider applying for one of the undergraduate and postgraduate foundation degrees offered at the SOAS IFCELS centre.
SOAS works with a number of local representatives in the UAE who can support you with applying and any questions you might have.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-united-states:
We have gathered information for American students interested in studying at SOAS University of London.
Phone: : +44 (0)20 7898 4700 Email: : study@soas.ac.uk
Study Abroad: studyabroad@soas.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 20 7898 4125.
Summer School: Online Academic Summer School enquiry form
If you would like to contact Alberto Demo , our International Recruitment Manager for North America, please email him directly at ad101@soas.ac.uk .
For information about future SOAS staff visits to the US, please see events in your country.
There is an open invitation to visit SOAS if you are ever in London.
SOAS offers a wide range of study options to students, from 3-year undergraduate degrees to 3-week summer courses.
Follow the links below to find out more about each of our entry points;
For information on entry requirements for undergraduate programmes, please visit our undergraduate criteria .
Please contact Undergraduate Admissions ( undergradadmissions@soas.ac.uk ) for further information.
All applications for undergraduate programmes (including transfers) are made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
For information on entry requirements for postgraduate programmes, please visit our postgraduate criteria .
Applicants should also refer to the individual programme web pages, which may specify any additional requirements.
Although we do not require GRE scores as part of our assessment we will take scores into account on a case-by-case basis.
Research applicants would normally be expected to have completed a qualification equivalent to a UK Masters degree.
Applications are made through UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
UCAS provides a guide for international students .
The UCAS application form is made of six sections;
The personal statement is a key component of your application.
There are many differences between the UK and US systems of higher education; a significant one being that in the UK you must select a course when submitting an application.
As a result, the focus of your personal statement should be the subject you are applying to study.
It is not advisable to use the same personal statement for applications to US and UK institutions.
The key topics to cover in your personal statement are;
There is a short guide to writing a personal statement on the UCAS website.
Once you have applied you will be able to view our response through ‘UCAS Track’.
There are two types of offers made to students:
You then choose one of the following responses to an offer through UCAS:
Applications are made through our online Postgraduate Application System .
We recommend you submit an application and all supporting documentation by 30 June.
If you have not yet completed your current degree we will consider and assess the application based on your current transcript and grades received so far.
Any offers made will be conditional on your final results meeting our entry requirement.
Applications are made through our Study Abroad Application Form.
The deadline for full-year and term 1 applications is 30 June.
Term 2 & 3 applicants should submit by 30 October.
Applications are made through our online SOAS Academic Summer School application form .
Application forms are available through the links below;
Eligible American students can apply for Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans, Plus Loans and private loans to cover their tuition and maintenance costs.
To find out more, please go to funding your studies..
Our School Federal Direct Loan Code is G06694.
SOAS offers scholarships, bursaries and awards to support students undertaking our degree programmes.
A number of scholarships are also provided by the University of London, the British government and other organisations, like the British Council.
To find out more about these schemes then please visit Scholarships and Bursaries .
The following external awards are specific to American students:
The John Loiello AFSOAS FISH Scholarship was set up by the American Friends of SOAS in order to give an American student the chance to study a Masters Program at SOAS.
Marshall Scholarships finance up to forty young Americans of high ability to study for a degree in the United Kingdom every year.
You need to be at UK graduate level, but you can apply for any field of study.
Each scholarship is held for 2 years.
The Thouron Award is a graduate exchange program between British universities and the University of Pennsylvania.
This scholarship programme aims to reinforce the "special relationship" between the U.S.
and the U.K.
Students receive full support (tuition and generous stipends) to pursue the graduate degrees of their choice.
If you would like to speak to an alum of SOAS who is currently in the US then there are a number who would be happy to answer your questions.
Please visit SOAS Alumni .
The US is home to our largest group of alumni outside of the UK.
In 2011 American Friends of SOAS (AFSOAS) was officially established, bringing together former students and friends who volunteer their expertise, time and effort toward a broad range of alumni and fundraising activities.
US graduates enjoy the professional, academic, career, and social benefits of a strong network of 3,000 friends and alumni.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-vietnam:
We have gathered specific information for Vietnamese students interested in studying at SOAS.
SOAS staff regularly travel overseas to meet with students who are interetsed in studying at SOAS.
For more information, please visit events in your country.
The Upper Secondary School Graduation Certificate (Tot Nghiep Pho Thong Trung Hoc) is not acceptable as an entry qualification for SOAS.
Applicants from Vietnam would be expected to offer, either instead or in addition, one of the following:
You can also find Information on our site about how to apply (undergraduate) as well as on the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service ( UCAS) website .
To be considered for admissions to SOAS Masters programmes, we require a Master's Degree/Thac si with a grade of 7.0 (Good).
We may also consider a four year bachelor degree/Bang tot ngheip dai hoc with excellent grades (8.0) on a case by case basis.
For further information please contact Masters Admissions ( study@soas.ac.uk ).
In addition to the above minimum entrance requirements, you should also refer to the individual programme entries in the postgraduate prospectus or on our postgraduate entry requirements .
SOAS works with the following representatives in Vietnam.
Please contact our representatives directly for further information and assistance about studying at SOAS and making an application.
SOAS offers a number of scholarships and bursaries and there are other external scholarships funded by the University of London, the UK Government and other organisations.
If you have any questions for an alum of SOAS currently living in Vietnam then you can contact Adam McCarty (SOAS Lecturer 1996-8), adaminhanoi@gmail.com

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/information-country/information-prospective-students-zimbabwe:
Applicants from Zimbabwe who have completed the General Secondary Education Certificate will be required to complete a Foundation Year before applying for undergraduate study.
The SOAS Careers Service is part of The Careers Group, University of London , which is the largest higher education careers and employability service in Europe.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/summer-school:
Join one of our credit or non-credit bearing summer modules and enjoy a bespoke social programme, making friends from across the world.
Complete our online application form to apply to the SOAS summer school.
Contact the summer school.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/summer-school/international-summer-programme-english-language:
Our International Summer Programme takes place on the main SOAS campus in central London, giving students the opportunity to experience campus life in Bloomsbury while making the most of everything that a major capital city like London has to offer.
If you are an international student and want to study academic English or have the chance to study a range of subjects, then come to SOAS, University of London in the centre of London.
The IFCELS department offers a range of 3 and 6-week summer courses for English language development and introductions to academic subjects too.
These courses combine academic study and English development in an interactive way and provide a great introduction to studying at an English speaking university.
Apply for the SOAS International Summer Programme
All courses consist of 18-20 hours of lesson time each week at SOAS University of London's Russell Square campus*.
The English language courses cover development of all four language skills with a focus on reading and writing in the mornings and listening and speaking in the afternoons.
The academic subject courses include lectures, seminar discussions and case studies, and support classes from a subject specialist English teacher.
Students also carry out their own independent research and present their work at the end of the course.
Students on the International Summer Programme have access to campus facilities including the university's world-famous library, and accommodation is available in nearby halls of residence.
Students also use London as a context for further exploration by going on study trips to interesting and relevant places in this historic capital city.
Block 1
7 – 25 Jul 2025
Block 2
28 Jul - 15 Aug 2025
Block 3
18 Aug – 5 Sep 2025
English Language Skills
(3 week course)
Intensive Academic English
(6 weeks - ends 6 September)
Art of the World in London
World Literature in London
Introduction to the Media
Global Business Strategy
Environment, Development and Changing World Views
International Relations
You will need to be at least 18 years of age to apply.
Art of the World in London - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of London
Environment, Development and Changing World Views - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of London
Global Business Strategy - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of London
International Relations - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of London
Introduction to the Media - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of London
World Literature in London - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of London
Intensive Academic English Course - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of London
As a SOAS Summer School student, you can choose to stay in our halls of residence located within 20 minute of the campus.
You will have a single room and private bathroom, and share a kitchen and living space with 4-6 other program attendees.
Attendees are not divided by country or course, giving you a chance meet people of all interests and from all around the world.
As well as the room amenities, you will enjoy unlimited free Wifi in your accommodation and all across campus.
Please note: accommodation is not included in the tuition fee.
A 10% discount is available for partner universities
Please note that refunds of course fees are made only at the discretion of SOAS.
More information can be found on our terms and conditions .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/events-your-country:
Our academics and representatives regularly travel around the world to meet students, attend exhibitions, hold workshops and give presentations.
These events are a great opportunity to meet us and find out about about our courses, scholarships and funding opportunities, the application process and life on our London campus.
Event details will be added as soon as they're confirmed, so check back if you can't see upcoming events in your country.
Wherever you are in the world, find out what studying at SOAS is like with our range of on-demand content.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/pre-sessional-courses:
4-week course: £2,920 (excl accommodation) 8-week course : £4,680 (excl accommodation)
The SOAS Pre-sessional provision at SOAS consists of 4-week and 8-week in-person courses, which are taught on the Russell Square campus in central London.
Students who take the pre-sessional course have the opportunity not only to develop their academic English and study skills, but also to interact with other students who are due to start their undergraduate and postgraduate academic studies next academic year.
Pre-sessional courses cater for the needs of students going on to degrees, in which essay-writing is an important component
So bear in mind that:
Students whose first language is not English often take time to adjust to the requirements of academic study at a UK university, and taking part in a pre-sessional EAP course can help in this process of adjustment, developing students' confidence in their own use of English and in their study skills so that they can embark on their degree programmes fully prepared.
The 8-week courses consist of 144 hours of guided tuition and the 4 week courses consist of 72 hours: this will be a combination of directed activities and exercises scheduled Monday to Friday, and classroom teaching and tutorials according to the week’s timetable.
The Pre-sessional courses are designed to support you reaching the exit level required by your academic department.
Assessment is built into the course design and will include:
In order to successfully complete the Pre-sessional course, you will need to fulfil a minimum attendance and engagement requirement of 90%, submit all required course-work to deadlines, as well as achieving the required level of performance in each assessment component.
The study schedule is intensive and so it is important that students commit themselves fully to their pre-sessional work.
Classes take place every day between 10:00am - 3:00pm from Monday to Friday and there are approximately 15 hours of lessons per week.
So students must be available during weekdays.
Students are also expected to carry out homework and independent research and complete assessed work outside class time.
The information on the website reflects the intended programme structure against the given academic session.
The modules are indicative options of the content students can expect and are/have been previously taught as part of these programmes.
However, this information is published a long time in advance of enrolment and module content and availability is subject to change.
Although many people develop good language skills at school, university or in their work, university study makes particular demands on students' language and study skills.
Students need to be able to:
Students will need to pay their fees online as soon as they have accepted the offer of a place on a Pre-sessional course to guarantee their place on the course.
All fees must be paid in full before the start date of the programme.
SOAS has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from students worldwide.
You'll need to use your 6-digit student ID number to make a payment.
Flywire offers:
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Eurocard, and Maestro cards.
If you’re unable to use Flywire, then you can make a direct bank transfer.
Use the account details below to make your bank transfer.
Make sure the bank transfer request includes your full name and your 6-digit student ID number.
If you’re paying from a non-UK bank make sure you pay in GBP and allow for any charges that may be deducted to ensure your transfer amount covers your fees in full.
NatWest Bank plc 94 Moorgate London EC2M 6XT Account number: 08622655 Sort code: 56-00-23 Account holder: SOAS, University of London Swift number: NWBKGB2L IBAN: GB77NWBK56002308622655 (International Bank Account number)
Email all of the following details to banking@soas.ac.uk so we can locate your payment:
We must receive the payment at least 14 days before enrolment to allow enough time for us to process it.
Keep proof of your bank transfer for your records and in case we need to see proof that you paid.
Please do not deposit money at a bank branch directly into the School's account as we won’t be able to trace it.
If you need to provide an organisation with an invoice before they will release funds to you to pay your tuition fees, please email fees@soas.ac.uk
Read our Summer programme and pre-sessionals terms and conditions .
You can book self-catering halls of residence accommodation at Paul Robeson House for prospective postgraduate students and Dinwiddy House for prospective undergraduate students.
These halls are used by SOAS students throughout the year and are a 15-minute walk from the Russell Square campus.
Accommodation can be booked directly through the halls of residence .
Information about booking accommodation and a discount code will be sent to you once you have accepted your pre-sessional offer.
Please book accommodation only when you are sure that you will attend the pre-sessional programme.
Accommodation fees are only refunded in exceptional circumstances (eg, serious delays in obtaining a visa or not meeting the condition of your main degree programme).
Any requests for a refund of accommodation fees should be made directly to the accommodation provider.
Please note: We are still awaiting confirmation of accommodation fees and application deadlines.
Once this has been finalised, we will add it to the webpage.
Global Business Studies - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of Lodnon

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration:
Depending on your nationality and current UK immigration status you may need to apply for a Student visa or a Standard Visitor Visa to study at SOAS.
You can use the UK Government’s visa checking tool to find out which type of visa you may need and if you must apply for your visa before travelling to the UK.
There are two relevant categories of visas suitable for studying at SOAS:
From January 2025, you will need to apply for an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) before travelling if you're eligible to request your Standard Visitor visa on arrival to the UK.
The ETA does not guarantee entry to the UK but will authorise you to travel to the UK.
Information for students and applicants who need to apply for a Student visa to study at SOAS.
Information for students who are applying for a Standard Visitor visa.
This visa is for those who are studying a programme of less than 6-months duration.
Find out about UK Visas and Immigration's new digital immigration system, which will replace physical immigration documents in December 2024.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/digital-immigration-status-evisa:
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) has moved to a digital immigration system for most immigration routes.
The information on this page is about the eVisa system for Student visa holders.
An eVisa is an online record of your immigration status or visa and has replaced the following physical immigration documents:
You may already have a UKVI account.
If you do, you can access your eVisa using the 'view and prove' service on GOV.UK .
Your eVisa may not be available to view in your UKVI account immediately after receiving your decision notice, it may take a few hours.
You may have a UKVI account if you're an EEA or Swiss national, or if you were previously living in the UK with a BRP and were required to create a UKVI account and access your eVisa before 31 December 2024.
You will need to create one on GOV.UK .
After you create your account you'll be asked to verify your identity and link your UKVI account to your eVisa.
Once you have a UKVI account and a linked eVisa, you can view your eVisa and get a share code to prove your immigration status to employers, landlords and other people who need to check your immigration status.
You can use an eVisa to travel to the UK together with your current passport which must be linked to your UKVI account.
Watch the UKVI video about how to travel with your eVisa and read the guidance.
Before you travel:
Take your passport, your visa decision letter/email, and a sharecode with you.
We are recommending that you bring various forms of evidence with you in case your carrier has difficulties accessing your eVisa.
You must update your UKVI account as soon there are any changes to your personal details, passport information, or contact details.
Don't wait until you need to travel as updates to the system are not immediate and you may experience issues travelling to the UK.
When you set up your UKVI account, you will provide a phone number and email address to receive security codes to login into your account.
You must maintain access to these contact details as security codes are sent each time you login to your UKVI account and update your account if you change your number or email address.
If you can no longer receive these security codes you will have difficulties proving your status and will need to contact UKVI.
If you have not already done so, you can provide a sharecode when completing the re-enrolment online task after receiving the invitation to re-enrol or submit it via SOAS Online Student Services .
Use the ‘view and prove’ service to get your share code PDF.
Select the option to 'prove your immigration status' (not the 'right to work' or 'right to rent' options) and then choose 'Something else' on the next screen.
You can also prove your right to work and rent using the 'view and prove' service by choosing the relevant option when creating an eVisa.
Watch the UKVI video to find out more.
Report errors with your eVisa using the online form , such as:
We have been advised by UKVI that if you have a BRP, you should keep your expired BRP as this may be needed in the future.
Do not destroy your BRP or throw it away.
Further guidance on how to create a UKVI account is available on GOV.UK .
You can also watch support videos on GOV.UK .
Including how to prove your identity if you cannot scan the biometric chip in your passport or BRP.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/student-visa:
If you're coming to study a full-time course for 6 months or more at SOAS then you will require a Student visa.
It's important to prepare in advance for your Student visa application by reading the guidance and visa requirement.
Here is a step-by-step guide to help you navigate the process.
Before applying for a student visa you must:
Your CAS statement contains a unique 14-digit reference number emailed to you from the Admissions team once you meet the conditions of your offer.
You can also request a CAS from the Visa Compliance team if you need more time to complete your programme and your active engagement and contact is required at SOAS.
Your CAS also contains important details about SOAS and your programme which will help you to complete your Student visa application form.
Find out more about your CAS and how to request it.
The Student Advice Service have produced guides which you should read before submitting your visa application as they will help you to understand the criteria that must be met and the documents you’ll need to provide.
They also explain if you can submit your application in the UK or if you must apply outside the UK.
Successful applicants in the Student visa route will have a digital immigration status called an eVisa .
If you don't already have a UKVI account you'll need to set one up and link it to your eVisa before travelling to the UK.
Read your decision email or letter to understand how to access your eVisa in your UKVI account.
We also have guidance available to help you.
You will need to meet one of the following criteria to be able to bring dependants (your partner or child) to the UK:
Contact the Student Advice Service if your child is born while you hold a student visa as there are additional rules in these circumstances.
Please see our guides for more information on how to submit a dependant visa application.
When your Student visa is granted and you've access your eVisa, check the following details:
Refer to our guides to understand when your visa should expire and how many hours you are permitted to work.
If you find an error, refer to the UKCISA website for information based on your circumstances and the deadlines to report the error.
You should also inform Student Visa Compliance via SID of any errors you find.
If you receive a correction from UKVI, upload a copy of any new immigration documents to SOAS Online Student Services .
If you have any difficulties with reporting the error, please contact Student Advice Service for advice.
The Student Advice Service provides free, confidental immigration advice to applicants as well as students during their programme.
Changes in your enrolment such as taking a leave of absence, repeating or transferring can affect your immigration permission so should be discussed with the Student Advice Service before making any decisions.
Read about your responsibilities as a visa holder and SOAS responsibilities to the Home Office as a Student visa sponsor license holder.
Contact SOAS Student Visa Compliance via SID if you have any questions about your responsibilities as a Student visa holder.
You must keep your UKVI account up-to-date with any changes to your personal or contact details including your passport.
Don't wait until you are travelling to make changes as the system will not update immediately and you could experience difficulties reentering the UK.
You can work during your studies if you're studying full-time with a Student visa but there are restrictions on the type of work you can do and the number of hours you can work during term-time .
If you change your personal details or you get a new passport:
All students who plan to apply for a Student Visa - or returning students who require further student immigration permission - will need to request a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Student Visa sponsorship and compliance.
As an international student holding a Student visa, you are required to keep SOAS updated with your term-time contact details.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/standard-visitor-visa:
This visa is generally for those who will be studying in the UK on a programme that's less than 6-months duration.
It is more limited than a Student visa but is less expensive and generally easier to obtain.
You can apply for a Standard Visitor visa:
The Standard Visitor visa has some limitations compared to the Student visa:
Depending on your nationality you may need to apply for this visa before entering the UK or you can request permission to enter on arrival.
The UK separates nationals of countries into the following two categories: non-visa nationals and visa nationals.
You can check whether you need to apply for a visa in advance or not using the UKVI visa check website .
If the website states that you can apply for either an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) or a Standard Visitor Visa this means that you can request your visa on arrival in the UK but must apply for the ETA prior to travelling.
You are a non-visa national if your nationality or passport is not listed on the visa national list.
You do not need to apply for this visa before entering the UK however you will need to apply for an Electronic Travel Authorisation before you travel to the UK.
You need to request a Standard visitor visa stamp from a Border Force Officer when entering the UK or enter via an eGate ( if your nationality is listed ).
It is advisable to have all the necessary documents required in case you need to show them upon arrival
If you are a visa national , you must apply for this visa before travelling to the UK.
You do not need to apply for an ETA.
Non-visa nationals requesting Standard Visitor at the UK Border will need to apply for an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) before travelling.
It is not a visa, it functions as a pre-screening process that grants digital permission to travel to the UK.
When you arrive at Border Control, you will then obtain your Standard Visitor Visa automatically by using eGates (if eligible) or via a Border Force Officer who will expect to see documentation about why you are coming to the UK and evidence you can financially support yourself whilst in the UK.
Find out about the ETA and when you make your application.
Please ensure to use the official website or app as we are aware of websites which attempt to mislead applicants into applying for the ETA from unofficial sites or apps, often charging more than the current £16 application fee.
UK Visas and Immigration do not normally contact applicants by text so be wary of messages sent via these channels and ensure to check the email address of anyone claiming to be contacting you from UKVI or the Home Office.
For more information please see our guidance document Applying for a Standard Visitor visa for study.
Contact the Student Advice Service if you need help to apply for this visa.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/requesting-cas:
All new students who require a Student Visa, and are starting a new degree programme will need to request a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
When requesting a CAS to study at SOAS, students will need to pay a CAS request deposit of £4,000.
This payment will count towards your tuition fees for your programme of study and is non-refundable .
For further details regarding the CAS deposit please refer to our deposit payment page.
Please see Current/returning SOAS students section and complete the relevant CAS form if you are continuing your current course and need to extend or apply for a new student visa to continue on your course (e.g.
reassessment, repeat year, or returning from interruption).
We recommend that you request your CAS as soon as possible after you become eligible, as visa application processing times can vary from country to country.
You should submit your CAS request no later than 3 weeks before your start date.
Any request for a CAS to be issued after the deadline will be at the discretion of SOAS and considered on a case-by-case basis.
Please note that holding an offer to study at SOAS does not mean that you are automatically eligible to receive a CAS.
You must ensure that you meet the eligibility requirements which will be assessed on a case-by case basis.
To request a CAS you must be aware of the following:
NB: CAS requests usually take 5 business days, but can take up to 10 business days to process during busier times or if there is missing information on your form.
If your CAS request submitted by the deadline is incomplete, it will not count as having applied for a CAS by the deadline.
The issuance of a CAS is considered at the discretion of SOAS if your request becomes complete after the deadline.
Your CAS request is regarded as incomplete in the following circumstances:
Complete the CAS request form and upload the following supporting documents:
If you have dual nationality, please consider fully which passport you want to use before the request is submitted, and only provide the passport that you will be travelling on and using for your visa application
SOAS may request additional information following receipt of a CAS request form in order to assess CAS eligibility and provide correct information on a CAS.
You will be required to provide a highly likely to complete letter if:
A highly likely to complete letter should confirm that you will complete your current studies successfully, and can be requested from the exams department/registry of your current university.
You will need to apply for your student visa outside the UK if you are not progressing academically, i.e., your new course is not at a higher level than your previous course or you haven't successfully completed the course of study in the UK (you have withdrawn from the course or you haven't been awarded the qualification due to failure in some modules) for which you were last granted a student visa.
We will issue a combined CAS for your degree programme and Pre-sessional English (PSE) programme if you hold an unconditional offer.
This means you will only need to make one Student visa application to cover the full duration of your PSE programme and your degree programme at SOAS.
To be eligible for a combined CAS you must meet all of the following:
For a combined CAS, your start date will be the start of your pre-sessional course.
You must request your CAS no later than 3 weeks before the start of the PSE.
If your offer is conditional pending an academic condition and your results will not be available until June or later, you will need to apply for two separate CAS numbers – one for the PSE and one for your degree programme.
After you have met the academic conditions, we will issue a second CAS for your main programme of study.
The International Student and Welfare Advisers at SOAS will be able to assist you with your visa extension.
To request a CAS for the PSE only, you will need to hold a UKVI secure English Language test (SELT) which will also need to be submitted as part of your student visa application.
If your PSE offer was made based on a non-UKVI SELT, you will need to submit a new UKVI SELT that meets SOAS English language requirements.
Before SOAS can issue a CAS we need to confirm that the student:
The Student sponsor guidance outlines the responsibilities/duties of an immigration sponsor in terms of issuing CASes to prospective students (including current students requiring a visa extension).
SOAS must only assign a CAS to a student who we believe will:
SOAS is under no legal obligation to issue CASes to individual students and we reserve the right to withhold a CAS and/or withdraw immigration sponsorship where this is justified in light of the University’s and/or UKVI policy or where deemed necessary based upon the facts of an individual case.
Where immigration sponsorship is withdrawn this may result in a student record being suspended/interrupted or even closed where it is not possible to continue on a course in the absence of immigration sponsorship.
If SOAS has issued a Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) to sponsor you in the UK as a Student, the School has a duty to report to UK Visas & Immigration if you do not attend regularly, withdraw from your course or interrupt your studies.
For further details regarding CAS issuance, please refer to our CAS Issuance Policy here .
Please note: Issuing a CAS does not guarantee that a student will be successful in securing a Student visa/permission to stay.
SOAS is not responsible for any decisions made by the Home Office/UKVI and cannot accept any liability for a student failing to obtain a visa/leave to remain and/or for the consequences and/or losses (whether financial or otherwise) of such failure.
Nor is SOAS liable for the consequences of declining to issue a CAS for a student on request.
There is a maximum time limit ('cap') on studying with a Student route (previously Tier 4) visa.
Before SOAS can issue your CAS, we will need to review all your previous Student immigration permission granted to check that your application will not take you over the maximum time allowed to study at the specific course level.
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI will not normally grant permission to enter/leave to remain (LTR) to someone whose current Student route application would result in them exceeding the limits unless there are "compelling and compassionate circumstances", such as injury or disability.
Below degree level course: 2-year cap
The cap only applies to students 18 years old and over.
Students 18 years and over can only spend a maximum of 2 years studying courses that lead to a qualification that is considered below degree level.
This two-year limit can be spent studying a single course or several courses on the Student route (and includes times spent on Tier 4 General visa if applicable).
The cap is counted whether you are applying for the visa inside or outside the UK.
Degree level (undergraduate) course: 5-year cap
For courses at degree level (RQF level 6 or equivalent), you cannot spend more than five years studying at this level on the Student route (this includes any time spent on Tier 4 General) visa.
UKVI will usually not grant permission to enter/leave to remain (LTR) to someone whose current Student route application would result in them exceeding the 5-year cap.
Time spent in the UK on a Student route visa (including time spent on a Tier 4 visa) before you turned 18 years old will not count towards this study limit (cap).
Time spent studying courses below degree level (below RQF level 6) on any student visa will also not count towards the limit.
If the total exceeds 5 years (2 years if you intend to study a Foundation course), then you may not be eligible for further study at that level if you need a Student visa.
You can email the Admissions team for more information at casrequest@soas.ac.uk
There are some exceptions to the study limit ‘cap’, but this is a complex area of immigration regulation which you can read about on the UKCISA website .
Please note that the Senior LLB programme at SOAS is not an exempted legal qualification and time spent on this course will be counted when calculating the time limit.
For further information on the study limit and how it is calculated please visit the UKCISA and UKVI websites.
If your Student visa application is refused, you should contact SOAS immediately, providing your name, application/student ID number, a copy of your visa refusal notice (all pages) and any supporting documentation that was submitted with your application:
Requests for a new/second CAS following a visa refusal will be assessed for eligibility and students will be required to provide SOAS with evidence that they meet the UKVI financial requirements, and any other relevant documentation requested.
If your visa was refused due to a credibility interview we would not normally issue a second CAS unless there were exceptional circumstances.
SOAS will not issue you a third CAS if you receive two visa application refusals.
We also reserve the right not to issue a second CAS if we believe the second application is likely to be refused.
If an Entry Clearance Officer or Caseworker has made an error when processing your Student visa application, you can challenge the decision through an Administrative Review rather than make a new Student visa application.
The SOAS Student Advice Service will review your visa refusal notice and advise if you have grounds for an Administrative Review.
To note:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/overseas-travel-visa-holders:
Information and guidance about travelling outside the UK for Student, Tier 4 or Standard Visitor visa holders
Attendance and engagement with your programme are important and we monitor this according to the SOAS Student Engagement Policy .
We expect students to be in the UK attending classes during their programme except for short trips at weekends or outside term time.
Find out more about what is defined as term time as this differs for undergraduate, taught postgraduate and research students.
For example, Masters students are in term time during the summer dissertation period.
You should also be aware that absences from the UK may affect eligibility for the Graduate Route visa which requires you to have studied in the UK for a minimum period of time.
If you need to be absent from your programme for an exceptional reason, you must request approval:
Postgraduate Research students must also notify Student Visa Compliance if they will be doing fieldwork overseas.
Some notes for travelling out of the UK on your Student visa:
If you have a Biometric Residence Permit (BRP), you must create your UKVI account and access your eVisa before 31 December 2024.
Check if you will need a visa to travel to the country you want to visit.
The Embassy website should provide the information you need.
If you do need a visa, apply in plenty of time.
If you are travelling within the Schengen area, apply for a Schengen visa from the country you plan to spend most time in, or the country you will go to first.
You will need a Schengen Visa letter confirming your student status.
You can request this letter via the online Student Information Desk (SID).
Each Embassy will have their own application form, and you will need to check their website to find out what procedures you need to follow.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs ( UKCISA ) website has useful information about Schengen Visas and travelling in Europe.
If your Student or Tier 4 visa has been curtailed or is awaiting curtailment action because you have taken a ‘leave of absence’ or have been withdrawn from SOAS, you must not travel to the UK on that visa.
Your immigration permission will no longer be valid to enter the UK and you will have problems at the UK border.
If you need to apply for a new visa to return to the UK to continue your studies, please request a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) .
If you applied for a Standard Visitor visa before travelling to the UK and your vignette (visa sticker) was endorsed into your passport, this should allow multiple re-entries to the UK whilst the visa is valid.
You may have to show a UK Border Force Officer that you are still studying each time you re-enter the UK.
Carry an up-to-date SOAS student status letter in your hand luggage, you can request this via the Student Information Desk (SID) .
If you were issued Standard Visitor immigration permission at the UK border by using an eGate or visiting a Border Force Officer, this permission ends when you leave the Common Travel Area (Republic of Ireland, the UK, the Isle of Man, Jersey, and Guernsey).
When you return to the UK you will need to request permission to enter again by visiting a Border Force Officer or using an eGate, if eligible.
You should carry in your hand luggage an up-to-date SOAS student status letter and evidence of your finances (e.g., a recent bank statement), and the return ticket to your home country, if you have one.
Find out more about the Standard Visitor visa including application guidance.
If your passport is lost or stolen whilst outside the UK, you will need to update your UKVI account with the new passport details before returning to the UK.
Read the UKVI guidance on what to do if you you're outside the UK and cannot access your UKVI account, eVisa or you get a passport with new personal details such as a new name, nationality.
You must inform the Student Visa Compliance Team (compliance@soas.ac.uk) about the loss of your passport and let them know if you will be delayed returning to the UK as a result.
New passports must be uploaded to Online Student Services as SOAS is required to hold up to date documents for our students.
The current Student route: caseworker guidance confirms that "Students are able to travel outside of, and re-enter, the UK whilst they hold valid permission as a Student, including in the period after they have completed their course and still hold permission under the route.".
This means that you can ask the Border Force Officer to allow you to re-enter the UK with your valid Student/Tier visa even though your programme has now finished.
A Border Force Officer may still want to be satisfied that you are entering for study related reasons and will leave the UK before your visa expires, or you will submit an immigration application to extend your leave in the UK before your current visa expires.
They can refused entry if they are not satisfied with the reasons you provide about returning to the UK.
We recommend that you carry evidence to support your return to the UK or evidence of your return ticket home in your hand luggage to help answer any questions you may be asked.
If you have submitted a visa application in the UK e.g.
Graduate visa, you cannot travel outside the Common Travel Area (UK, the Crown Dependencies and Ireland), whilst this is in progress or it will be considered automatically withdrawn.
You must wait for your decision notice and receive any new immigration documents issued to you before travelling.
Information about visas and entry into the UK.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/arriving-uk:
Information for students arriving in the UK who hold a Student visa.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) provides advice about how to prepare your travel and arrival to the UK .
You cannot travel to the UK until:
Read our guidance if you need advice on how to submit your Student visa application,
Nationals of an EU country, Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, Liechtenstein, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland or the USA can use eGates when entering the UK.
You should always travel with the passport you used to make your visa application.
If you use eGates you will not be issued with a date of entry stamp in your passport.
You will need to keep evidence such as a boarding card or flight ticket to confirm the date you entered the UK.
SOAS will need to see this evidence as part of your enrolment.
Our guide to applying for a Student visa provides more information about when your visa should expire, the work conditions you should have as well as information about how to report an error.
Read the enrolment documents required for new students for details about what you will need to provide to enrol on your programme at SOAS.
As well as enrolling at SOAS there are other important things you may need to do when you arrive in the UK.
Consider opening a UK bank account as it may make it easier to manage your money in London.
You will need to request a letter issued by SOAS confirming your registration and programme duration, and a copy of your passport and visa.
Visit your chosen bank for more information about what they need from you.
Once you are fully enrolled, you will receive a Confirmation of Enrolment Letter you can also request an enrolment status letter via the Student Information Desk (SID) (login required).
You should register with a GP near where you live when you arrive in the UK, don’t wait until you are unwell.
Depending on how much you use public transport, it may save you money to buy a travelcard using the 18+ Student Oyster photocard.
Visit the Transport for London website or a Visitor Centre for more details.
You will need a TV License to watch or record live TV programs.
Find out more on the TV license website .
As a full-time student, it’s likely that you won’t have to pay towards the Council Tax bill and can apply for an exemption .
If you’re living in private accommodation, you will need to inform your local council that you have moved into your accommodation and provide evidence of your enrolment at SOAS.
Visit Find your local council website to locate yours.
Read any letters you receive from the Council and respond quickly to avoid being fined or brought to court.
If you’re living in student halls, speak to hall staff about whether you need to provide any documents to them or the local council about your student status.
Contact the Student Advice Service if you are unsure if you’re exempt from paying or need help in dealing with a Council Tax issue.
Once you’re enrolled, you can request a letter confirming your enrolment via the Student Information Desk (SID) (login required).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/visa-sponsorship-and-compliance:
By enrolling/re-enrolling at SOAS, students sponsored for visa purposes (Student route visa/Tier 4) confirm that they will adhere to the following visa conditions and responsibilities for the duration of their studies at SOAS.
For further information please visit our Visas and Immigration page.
Please also refer to some useful guidance from UKCISA on Protecting your Student status .
Police Registration (no longer required): Please note that the requirement for nationals from certain countries to register with the UK Police was abolished on 5 August 2022 by the UK Government.
For more information, please visit the UKCISA website.
As your sponsor SOAS is required to check that:
You may be contacted using your SOAS email address during the year to check the details we currently hold about you are correct.
If this is necessary you will be emailed and given time to update your UK contact details.
If your details change during the year, you can update us at any time using SOAS Online Services .
Students who fail to adhere to visa regulations put their Student visa status at risk which can result in their visa sponsorship being withdrawn
Students sponsored for a Student visa are responsible for ensuring that SOAS and the Home Office are informed of the following changes to your details:
If you have a biometric residence permit (BRP) and change your address, you can do this using the Change of Circumstances Form.
However, any other changes will mean you have to apply for a new BRP.
Full details on reporting a change are available from the Home Office website .
If applied for a visa and used the UK Immigration: ID Check app you will be able to log back into your UKVI account to update your personal details, and view and prove your immigration status.
Please note: If we sponsor you for your Student Visa (previously Tier 4 visa), we will ask you to verify your immigration status at various points during your studies with us.
Please make sure you respond if we get in touch, otherwise, your visa sponsorship may be withdrawn.
Graduate Route visas: If you are currently on a Graduate route visa, you are not permitted to study with a Student Sponsor on a course which would meet the requirements of the student route.
While your Student Route application is pending, your Graduate Route immigration status still stands and SOAS is not permitted to enrol you until your Student route visa is approved, and you have provided us with evidence of this.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/working-while-studying:
If you are thinking of looking for part-time work while you are studying in the UK, you need to check eVisa or visa vignette (in your passport) first to see what work conditions UK Visas and Immigration have endorsed your visa with.
If you have an eVisa please check the email you received from UK Visas and Immigration when your visa was granted or use the ' View and Prove Service '.
You will either have a work restriction or prohibition.
If you are studying on a full-time degree level programme and have a Student visa your eVisa should state '20 hours max in term time' or similar.
With this endorsement, you can work up to 20 hours per week in term-time and there's no restriction on the amount of hours you can work outside of term-time which includes the time before your course begins and after your course has finished.
Refer to your CAS for your official course dates.
There are restrictions on the type of work you can do.
You cannot:
UKCISA provides a useful article about working in the UK as a Student visa holder.
A 'week' has been defined in the Immigration Rules as "a period of 7 days beginning with a Monday".
It is essential that you work no more than 20 hours in any seven-day period starting on a Monday.
If you work irregular hours and / or have more than one employer, you will need to keep accurate records of how many hours you work each day to ensure you are not in breach of your work conditions.
There's no restriction on the amount of hours you can work outside Semester times and after your programme has finished.
You should check your CAS for the official end date of your programme.
The summer is not a vacation period for Masters students as during this time you are enrolled on your dissertation and you can only work a maximum of 20 hours per week until the official end date of your programme listed on your CAS.
SOAS research degrees are continuous programmes with enrolment running from the first day of the academic session until the day preceding the first day of the next academic session, so September to September each year.
As term dates do not apply, you can only work a maximum of 20 hours per week during your programme apart from the exceptions below.
You cannot take up a permanent position.
There's no restriction on the amount of hours you can work during the following periods:
If the vignette in your passport contains the following wording then you have a prohibition on working in the UK:
If you entered the UK using the Standard visitor visa you are prohibited from working.
If you have Student visa but have a prohibition endorsed on your eVisa, this is likely to be an error that should be corrected .
International Students wishing to work must apply for a National Insurance number , which will enter you into the UK tax system.
You can apply when you are looking for work or have found a job.
If you work in the UK, you may need to pay Income Tax and National Insurance contributions depending on how much you earn.
For more information on income tax, visit GOV.UK .
Information for student visa holders about visa options after studies are complete.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/working-after-your-studies:
The Graduate visa allows you to remain in the UK to work or look for work in the UK after successfully completing an eligible course.
Successful applicants will be granted a 2-year visa if they complete a degree course and doctoral graduates will be granted a 3-year visa.
The main eligibility criteria are as follows:
You will receive a confirmation email from SVC once your programme completion has been reported to UKVI.
Do not submit your Graduate visa application until you receive this email, or your application may be refused.
For undergraduate and postgraduate taught students, reports an only be sent by SVC to UKVI after your results are released via Online Student Services .
You can view the academic calendar, including result release dates, on MySOAS .
If you complete your programme in May, these reports are normally submitted to UKVI in July.
If you complete your programme in September, these reports are normally submitted to UKVI from the beginning of December.
When you are awarded your PhD, the Doctoral School will inform SVC who will then submit the report to UKVI.
If you do not receive an email from the SVC team within the expected timeframe, please contact the SVC team as soon as possible and before your Student visa expires.
If you do not complete your programme at the expected time because you have deferred submissions, need to resubmit work, or need to resit exams, this can affect your eligibility for the Graduate Route.
Seek advice from Student Advice Service if you are in this situation.
Your Student visa allows you to work without any restriction on your weekly hours once your programme is finished.
This means you can work full-time once your programme has finished and while you are waiting to apply for your Graduate visa.
The work conditions of your Student visa remain in place until your Graduate visa has been granted with one exception: you are allowed to take on a permanent full-time position once you have applied for your Graduate visa.
However, you will need to discuss this with your employer as they may have their own internal rules about when they can offer you a permanent position.
The Student Advice Service currently does not offer one-to-one appointments regarding Graduate Route or other post-study visa options, as the focus of our advice work is in assisting students and applicants with queries relating to their student visa.
We provide the following resources and links to help you understand how to apply for this visa:
The Skilled Worker visa requires you to be sponsored by an employer with a Skilled Worker sponsor license and have a job offer to work in an eligible position.
SOAS does not offer one-to-one appointments about the Skilled Worker route but offers presentations during the academic year which are advertised on the Student Bulletin and on this page.
Read further details about the requirements on the UKCISA website .
UKCISA provides an overview of the visa options that may be available to you once your program is complete.
The SOAS Careers Service offers guidance, advice and informational resources on careers, employers, vacancies, CVs and interview skills.
Information for student visa holders about working during studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/eu-settlement-scheme:
The EU Settlement Scheme opened fully on 30 March 2019 and the deadline to apply for most people was 30 June 2021.
Some people can apply after this date and the scheme is also still open to those with pre-settled status who are eligible to apply for settled status.
You can find further information on GOV.UK about who can still apply to the scheme and the eligibility criteria.
As with other non-student immigration routes, the Student Advice Service does not offer one-to-one advice on the EU Settlement Scheme.
There are many external organisations that can provide you with advice and guidance:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchange/inbound-students-study-abroad:
Add to your current studies or explore an entirely new area of interest by building modules from across our departments.
Take the credit back to your home institution, along with memories of your time spent in London.
For further fees information, please see SOAS tuition fees .
Study Abroad and Exchange students are able to choose from over 400 modules to build a unique programme.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchange/outbound-soas-students-abroad:
SOAS University of London is a truly international university committed to supporting diversity and global outlook of our students.
Studying abroad can be a life-changing experience.
Alongside professional development, studying abroad allows students to expand their understanding of cultures, grow their independence and resilience, and widen their global network.
All qualities desirable when entering the workplace
If you're interested in finding out more about all the locations worldwide, our interactive map of partner institutions will show you where to go.
This applies to students studying a language degree with a compulsory year abroad.
Students select this pathway through UCAS before they join SOAS.
Placements are managed within departments and students are guided by academic requirements of their programme.
All students are provided with relevant information on the process at the beginning of their degree at SOAS.
Students studying abroad as part of their SOAS degree will receive credits towards their degree based on the transcript of records from their host institution.
Language students will need to study in countries that are related to their chosen language.
Please note that all destinations are reviewed in line with the UK FCDO (Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office) advice, and where the FCDO advises against the travel, the destination will become unavailable.
To progress onto the study abroad year, students must pass compulsory language core modules to meet the requirements of the programme.
Some of the placements are arranged through exchange agreements with partner institutions and so have limited spaces.
Students should, therefore, be aware that they are not guaranteed a specific placement as this will be subject to interest and spaces available that year.
Find out more about SOAS language courses with mandatory study abroad components.
Students not on a language degree are able to apply for the optional year abroad in their second year of studies at SOAS.
Students will be invited to information sessions about how to apply during their second year of studies by the Study Abroad team.
The year abroad will take place in their Year 3, which is an additional year, and upon return from abroad, students will go on to their final year, making their degree 4 years in duration.
Students will take English-taught modules at exchange partner institutions.
For an overview of our current exchange partners see our Study Abroad map .
Please note that all destinations are reviewed in line with the UK FCDO (Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office) advice, and where the FCDO advises against the travel, the destination will become unavailable.
Students will receive further information on how to apply in their second year of studies at SOAS.
Student applications are considered on academic merit and a personal statement and are subject to availability.
Students need to have achieved 55% or higher in their first year of studies to be considered.
Students currently enrolled on the LLB with Year Abroad programme and those joining SOAS in September 2025 will study abroad at specific institutions that complement the SOAS Law curriculum .
Placements are arranged through exchange agreements with partner institutions and so have limited spaces.
Students joining the LLB programme at SOAS from September 2026 will have the opportunity to apply for a year abroad in the same way as students opting for an optional year abroad.
Explore our range of undergraduate courses
All SOAS students (both with mandatory and optional study abroad) who study abroad for a year pay reduced fees to SOAS and no tuition fees to their host institution.
Study abroad fees can be found on the Undergraduate fees SOAS page .
Students will be responsible for their travel, accommodation, and cost of living abroad.
SOAS provides travel insurance for all students studying abroad as part of their SOAS degree.
Students eligible for support from Student Finance England (SFE) may be able to receive further loan and travel grant support for their study abroad year.
Further information can be found on the Student Finance website .
Subject to SOAS’s success with the Turing Scheme bid, all study abroad students will be invited to apply for Turing funding that may cover their time abroad.
All SOAS students who are spending their time abroad as part of their degree are fully supported by both their host institution and SOAS.
During their year abroad, students continue to have access to the SOAS Study Abroad team, as well as SOAS resources including wellbeing services and support .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships:
SOAS's Strategic Plan articulates a vision for a new model of international partnerships that is responsive to the transnational character of our global challenges.
There is an urgent need for international partnerships which are more equitable in nature, requiring a fundamental rethinking of partnership models to enable the co-development, co-teaching and co-accreditation of academic programmes in a much more integrated way.
If you and your delegation would like to visit us in London to discuss plans to collaborate or if you have any questions about our partnerships, please get in touch.
Universities often talk about equitable partnerships but there is little understanding of what this truly means.
This is because it is difficult to establish equitable partnerships in an unequal world.
Instead, most partnerships concern student mobility, often taking the form of international exchanges or dual degrees – students begin their studies at one institution and move to another.
But what is needed are joint programmes that bring knowledge systems into conversation with each other so that we can tackle the transnational challenges facing us today.
With our new equitable partnerships, we aim to do just this.
These unique programmes developed in partnership with institutions across Africa, Asia and the Middle East are co-designed, co-taught and co-accredited with a single fee charged to all students.
Each programme explores a key global issue from a Global South-Global North perspective, providing students with a rich learning experience that crosses knowledge systems.
SOAS is working with a growing number of university partners to offer students a range of dual degree programmes (at undergraduate and postgraduate level), as well as progression and articulation arrangements.
Dual degrees provide students with the opportunity to take degrees at (and receive two separate awards from) two different universities in a shorter amount of time than it would take to complete both degrees separately.
Joint MPhil/PhD in Applied Development Economics
Joint LLM/MA in Environmental Justice in South Asia
Joint MA in Global Urban Sociology
PGT Progression Agreement
Dual Masters Degree Programme & Progression Agreement
Dual Degree Programme (JD/LLM)
Dual LLM Programme
Articulation programme for SOAS LLB
PGT Dual Degree Programme
Dual Masters Programme
Dual Degree Programme
Undergraduate Dual Degree Programme

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/accommodation-options-joint-masters-students:
Housing options in London are limited and tend to fill up quickly, which is why you are advised to book your accommodation as soon as you have accepted your place on the course.
You will not be able to stay in the main SOAS Halls of Residence due to the shortness of the housing contract required for your course.
To book your course housing please contact our accommodation partners.
Our partners offer up to date availability and prices on housing in a variety of locations to suit every budget.
This accommodation is not booked via the SOAS Accommodation Office, but directly with our partner agencies.
Please remember to always read the contract carefully, particularly the cancellation clauses.
Booking your accommodation through London Homestays means that you will be staying with hosts in their own homes (meals and bedding included).
When you book use the code SOASSEPT24 in the field marked "Please advise if there is any information we should be made aware of?" to remove the usual £50 booking fee.
If you book through Hosts International you will be staying with hosts in their own home.
There are various options in terms of meals, locations and contract lengths.
Britannia Students offers a variety of housing, from homestays to halls of residence .
Student.com offers a variety of housing options in privately rented, or hall housing.
Anglo-Educational offers shared accommodation in a variety of locations.
The Londonist offers a wide range of accommodation across London.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/akita-international-university-japan:
Akita International University is a leader in international higher education in Japan, recognised among the top 10 universities in the country and has been ranked #1 for both quality of education and international education environment (Times Higher Education).
With nearly 60% of its faculty and 25% of its student body hailing from overseas, AIU teaches all content courses in English and requires all undergraduate students to spend one year studying abroad at one of over 200 exchange partners in over 50 countries, ensuring an unrivalled international education.
SOAS and Akita International University (AIU) have formed a partnership to foster cooperation between the two institutions.
The partnership enables suitably qualified graduates of Akita International University (AIU) to undertake taught, one-year graduate degrees (MA/MSc) at SOAS University of London.
As part of the signed agreement between SOAS and AIU, there is a 15% discount on the international student fees.
Please note that SOAS LLM programmes are not included in the SOAS/AIU agreement.
You can design your own intellectual journey: most of our programmes can be studied in combination with another subject, allowing you to tailor your degree to your skills and interests.
Read more about what makes SOAS such a unique place to study .
The programs for admission are not restricted to the School of Finance and Management Studies and the Department of Economics; all other master's programmes, with the exception of LLM degrees from the School of Law, accept AIU students for progression to SOAS (with minimum GPA 3.0).
Minimum course grades are required for some degrees so please make sure that you check this on the programme page before applying.
You can apply to 2 programmes, but you can only receive one offer at a time.
If you are an Undergraduate student at Akita International University and you are interested in applying to a Masters degree at SOAS then you can also speak to our colleagues at the Academic Career Support Center (ACSC) .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/beijing-foreign-studies-university-china:
Beijing Foreign Studies University (BFSU) is one of the top public universities in Beijing.
It was the first foreign language university in China and it offers the largest number of foreign language degrees, with 101 foreign languages currently being taught.
Around 15% of BFSU’s 10,000 students are international.
This programme is a collaboration between the School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics at SOAS and the School of English and International Studies at BFSU.
Students on BFSU’s MA Translation Studies or Master of Translation and Interpreting (MTI) can apply for this Dual Masters Degree Programme.
All students will commence the Programme at BFSU and then transfer to SOAS for the second academic year.
Students will then return to Beijing to complete the final year of their Dual Degree at BFSU.
Students will need to produce two Masters theses, one at SOAS and another one after returning to BFSU.
Upon successful completion of both programmes, students will receive a separate award from each university.
In 2020, SOAS and BFSU signed a Progression agreement, which allows BFSU students to enrol on an undergraduate or postgraduate programme at SOAS and receive a discount of 20% on SOAS’ international tuition fees.
Explore what makes SOAS such a unique place to study .
Information for prospective students from China
Get all the information you need to get your SOAS application going.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/columbia-university-usa:
In partnership with the Columbia Law School in New York, SOAS School of Law offers a Dual Degree Programme, integrating SOAS's 1-year LLM degree programme with the 3-year Juris Doctor (JD) postgraduate law programme at Columbia University.
Columbia Law School students who successfully complete Year 1 and Year 2 of their Columbia JD are eligible to apply to a SOAS LLM programme in lieu of Year 3 of their JD degree.
Upon successful completion of the LLM at SOAS, students are awarded both a Columbia Law School JD degree and also a SOAS LLM.
The SOAS School of Law offers seven LLM degree specialisations in addition to the general LLM programme.
These equip students with in-depth knowledge and expertise in some of the most critical social justice challenges facing our globalised world today.
Specialisations include:
Reflecting SOAS' standing as the world’s leading centre for the study of Asia and Africa, students on the LLM programme can study a language such as Arabic or Chinese, or a module from another discipline, as part of their degree.
Participating in the SOAS-Colombia JD/LLM Dual Degree Programme provides students with an exceptional international education experience, engaging with leading legal scholars in New York and London.
Students can open up new career opportunities with international civil society organisations and NGOs, policy think tanks and other public and private bodies concerned with the delivery of social justice policy and practice.
Established in 1754, Columbia University is a private Ivy League research university in Upper Manhattan, New York City.
The university is organised into 20 schools, including undergraduate schools such as Columbia College, the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, and the School of General Studies, as well as graduate schools such as Columbia Law School, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia Journalism School and Columbia Business School.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/national-law-university-delhi-india:
The School of Law, Gender and Media at SOAS is delighted to offer a Joint LLM/MA in Environmental Justice in South Asia in partnership with the National Law University Delhi, India.
This jointly taught and awarded one-year programme explores critical issues from a Global South-North perspective while also providing students with a rich learning opportunity to learn directly from field exposure.
The course incorporates a core taught component, a clinical component and a dissertation.
The programme will provide a unique and transformative learning experience, which graduates can bring to careers in research, policy studies and international non-governmental and governmental organisations.
During the course, students will:
The programme has a single fee for all students regardless of country of origin.
Upon completion of the programme, students will be jointly awarded a LLM/MA by both SOAS and NLUD.
Owing to the short-term stay in London for the course, you will not be able to stay in the main SOAS Halls of Residence.
This means that your accommodation will not be booked via the SOAS Accommodation Office, but directly with our partner agencies .
Established in 2008, National Law University Delhi is a premier law university in India that aims to evolve and impart comprehensive and interdisciplinary legal education.
The university is committed to disseminating legal knowledge and developing the pedagogical acumen necessary to engage with contemporary legal issues of public importance.
The University aims to shape its students as instruments of change who will be equipped to address the imperatives of the new millennium while upholding constitutional values.
NLUD graduates have excelled in diverse fields, such as academia, legal practice, administrative services and entrepreneurship.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/shiv-nadar-institution-eminence-india:
The Department of Anthropology and Sociology at SOAS in collaboration with Shiv Nadar Institution of Eminence Deemed to be University (Shiv Nadar IoE) is delighted to offer a Joint MA in Global Urban Sociology.
This unique, jointly-taught and jointly-awarded, 1-year MA between SOAS and Shiv Nadar IoE allows students to study in two very different institutions and two contrasting cities.
It is also one of the only programmes to focus on global sociology and specifically on the global sociology of cities and urban life-worlds.
Carefully designed to address how cities and the urban can be approached beyond usual hemispheric divides, and in negotiation with planetary as well as local debates, the vision of the programme is to offer a rare classroom where the focus is on how the contemporary urban world may be explored.
Students will receive rigorous sociological training as well as cultural immersion in the UK and India, in a partnership programme that combines student mobility with cutting edge research-led teaching.
Though the collaborating institutions are based in the United Kingdom and India respectively, the MA itself has a genuinely global focus, offering an understanding of the urban condition from around the world through case studies from around the world.
The programme welcomes a global cohort of students, those with an interest in academic training as well as in upskilling their professional profile.
We expect a vibrant peer group experience in the classroom, in addition to the locational impact.
This MA specifically seeks to foreground how social science knowledge can be deployed to both understand and tackle real-world issues in the context of the most significant transformation of the ways in which we occupy the planet, i.e.
urbanisation.
It is in this sense, that we encourage applications from those – such as mid-career professionals -- who wish to expand their analytical skill sets and others preparing for another degree beyond the MA.
Shiv Nadar IoE is a multidisciplinary, student-centric research university established in 2011 by Shiv Nadar, one of India’s foremost philanthropists and a pioneer of technological revolution.
It is also the youngest university in the country to have been awarded the “Institution of Eminence” status by the government of India.
The University’s aim is to become internationally recognised for the quality of its research and improving quality of life, generating new insights and expanding the boundaries of human knowledge creativity.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/universitas-islam-internasional-indonesia:
UIII is a newly-established, private graduate institution, based in Depok, West Java.
It offers academic programmes focusing on the study of Islam and the Muslim world, and currently has four faculties:
The SOAS-UIII Dual Degree Programme provides postgraduate students with the opportunity to gain two separate Masters degrees from different universities in 2-years.
Students can start their studies either with either UIII or SOAS:
The SOAS-UIII Dual Degree Programme includes the following SOAS Masters programmes:
Information for prospective students from Indonesia

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/university-bergen-norway:
SOAS administers a successful Dual LLM Partnership with the University of Bergen facilitating the entry of Bergen's postgraduate law students into the SOAS LLM programme in London.
Through this partnership, University of Bergen postgraduate law students are eligible to enrol in SOAS’ 1-year LLM programme in place of either Year Four or Year Five of their 5-year LLM programme.
Students’ home institution will then articulate the SOAS LLM into their home degree, with students then graduating with two law degrees – one from either the University of Bergen, and one from SOAS.
This partnership programme allows LLM students from Bergen university to take up specialised SOAS LLM programmes which may align with academic and professional areas of interest.
SOAS LLM programmes for which Bergen students may enrol through this partnership include:
SOAS is pleased to be able to offer a discount against ordinary international tuition fee rates for Bergen students enrolling through the dual LLM partnership.
To be eligible, students should be current LLM students at University of Bergen maintaining an average grade of B/C in their current law degree, and should have obtained 4.0 in English language through Norwegian Vitnemal.
Find out more information and how to apply.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/university-witwatersrand-south-africa:
The Department of Economics at SOAS is delighted to offer a Joint MPhil/PhD in Applied Development Economics in collaboration with the School of Economics and Finance at the University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa.
The SOAS-Wits strategic partnership aims to train students in heterodox economics and facilitate an understanding of important global economic challenges through the lens of Africa.
Situated in Johannesburg, South Africa - a vibrant, leading commercial city on the African continent, Wits University is internationally distinguished for research, high academic standards and commitment to social justice in Africa and beyond- its history is linked to academic excellence, and with political and civic activism.
To be eligible, students will need to apply to both institutions via each institution’s website by the deadlines specified and meet entry requirements of both institutions.
If you have any queries on this partnership, please contact the Global Partnerships team: globalpartnerships@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/nankai-university-china:
SOAS offers a number of Dual Masters programmes in collaboration with Nankai University, taught through the SOAS School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics, giving students an opportunity to gain two separate Masters degrees from different universities.
Tianjin is a large city of over 13 million people, which can be reached in 30 minutes by train from Beijing.
Nankai University (NKU), founded in 1919, is one of the top public research universities in China.
It has around 24'000 students over 22 colleges on three campuses covering 456 hectares.
Students who enrol on an eligible Masters degree at Nankai University can apply to spend the second year of their 3 year degree programme at SOAS, choosing from a range of Masters programmes offered.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/university-oslo-norway:
SOAS administers a successful Dual LLM partnership arrangement with the University of Oslo in Norway, facilitating the entry of our partner's postgraduate law students into the SOAS LLM programme in London.
Through this partnership arrangement, University of Oslo postgraduate law students are eligible to enrol in SOAS’s 1-year LLM programme in place of either Year Four or Year Five of their 5-year LLM programme.
Students’ home institution will then articulate the SOAS LLM into their home degree, with students then graduating with two law degrees – one from the University of Oslo and one from SOAS.
This partnership arrangement allows LLM students from University of Oslo to take up specialised SOAS LLM programmes which may align with academic and professional areas of interest.
SOAS LLM programmes for which Oslo students may enrol through this partnership arrangement includes:
As part of the partnership arrangement, University of Oslo students admitted to the SOAS LLM programmes will pay the SOAS tuition fees as set for "full-time UK students" instead of the tuition fees for overseas students.
To be eligible, students should be current LLM students at University of Oslo, maintaining an average grade of B/C in their current law degree, and should have obtained 4.0 in English language through Norwegian Vitnemal.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/johns-hopkins-sais-italy:
The departments of Development, Politics and International Studies and Economics at SOAS are offering a Dual Masters programme in collaboration with Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) , Bologna campus, Italy.
Under the programme, students from both SAIS and SOAS have the opportunity to conduct 2-years of study in International Affairs in combination with studies in Economics, Development Studies or Politics at two of the world’s leading universities in these fields.
Students can be awarded both an MSc from SOAS and a Master of Arts in International Affairs (MAIA) from SAIS.
Students can start their studies either with SAIS Europe or SOAS:
The cooperative SAIS-SOAS degree programme includes the following 10 Masters programmes at SOAS:
The SAIS Bologna Center is the European campus of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
SAIS in Europe is distinguished by strong faculty-student relationships, vigorous debate and a cohesive social and intellectual community.
Exposure to contrasting European and U.S.
perspectives on global issues and its strategic location in the MENA region offer a distinctive academic advantage—making for an enriching experience.
To be eligible, current SAIS students will need to apply for one of the SOAS programmes as listed above during their first year of study, or vice versa for students of SOAS.
Students should apply by the deadline and meet the entry requirements of the relevant programme.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/thammasat-university-thailand:
SOAS School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics (South East Asia Section) has a dual award partnership with Thammasat University in Bangkok, Thailand
Students start their undergraduate award at Pridi Banomyong International College on the BA Thai Studies programme and after 2-years of study, they can transfer into the SOAS BA Languages & Cultures (Middle East, Africa, South & Southeast Asia) programme.
After completing the 4-years students will receive a BA award from both SOAS and from Thammasat.
Thammasat University is one of the top public universities in Thailand.
Inaugurated in 1934 with social science and humanities subjects, it expanded in the mid-80s to cover most disciplines, including science, technology, and health,
After completing the four years students will receive a BA award from both SOAS and from Thammasat.
For more information on how to apply, please visit How to apply for undergraduate study or email our Admissions team at study@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/help-university-malaysia:
SOAS offers direct entry into Year 2 of the SOAS LLB (Bachelor of Law) programme to students of HELP University (Malaysia) who have successfully completed 1-year of study at HELP.
Students from HELP University who are on this programme are also eligible to receive a dedicated scholarship to support tuition costs while at SOAS.
Students participating on this programme will then be eligible to graduate with a SOAS LLB degree after Year 3.
Commencing with the 2020/21 academic year, the SOAS-HELP articulation programme is open to first year students on the HELP LLB programme who wish to complete their LLB at SOAS.
After completing the SOAS LLB, students who wish to become practising lawyers will only have to read for either the UK Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC) to gain admission into the English Bar, or pursue the Malaysian Legal Profession’s Qualifying Board’s Certificate in Legal Practice examination.
HELP University was founded in 1986 to provide affordable quality educational opportunities for Malaysians.
It has since developed into a leading institution of higher learning in Malaysia with an international reputation among universities, research organisations, scholars, business, corporate leaders, and governments.
HELP University offers a wide and diverse range of programmes covering business, law, management, economics, IT, the social sciences, and the humanities at undergraduate and graduate levels.
Students who are interested in undertaking study at SOAS through the LLB Articulation programme should have achieved an average GPA of 3.0 of 4 or higher and should have achieve IELTS English-language proficiency scores of 6.5 or higher overall (with 6.5 in Writing and Speaking and 6.0 in Reading and Listening).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/sophia-university-japan:
The Department of Japan and Korea at SOAS, in collaboration with Sophia University's Graduate Programme in Global Studies (GPGS) is delighted to offer a Graduate Dual Degree Programme.
The Dual MA is based at Sophia University, as Japanese Master’s programmes are typically 2-years long, and SOAS contributes to it by offering its MA in Japanese Studies as an option for students originally enrolled at Sophia University.
For SOAS students there is the opportunity to continue studying in Japan for a further year after first completing the MA in Japanese Studies at SOAS.
Students proceeding to Sophia University can add any one degree within the GPGS at Sophia University, while students coming from Sophia must choose the MA Japanese Studies from SOAS.
Students will study 1-year at GPGS and 1-year at SOAS.
Only upon successful completion of both the MA Japanese Studies at SOAS and the corresponding 1-year element at Sophia will students receive two MA degrees, one from each institution.
Applications are made to the 1-year MA Japanese Studies programme at SOAS.
The continuation at Sophia is an optional add-on that has no impact on how the MA Japanese Studies is taught at SOAS and its normal rules and regulations apply.
For students considering enrolment through SOAS, this is an opportunity to add one year of study at Sophia University, after they have completed the taught elements of their MA in Japanese Studies with SOAS.
However, students should indicate interest in the possibility to continue to Sophia University upon the point of application.
Only upon being accepted by Sophia University in a separate application procedure (please see below), can the students proceed to Japan.
The fees for the MAs are to be paid separately to each institution.
Prospective students should apply in the first instance for the MA programme at the institution where they intend to commence their studies.
Applicants for the MA must fulfil the criteria for acceptance adopted by both institutions:
For more information on the programme and on how to participate, please contact the Global Partnerships team: globalpartnerships@soas.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/global-partnerships/korea-university-south-korea:
SOAS is delighted to offer a postgraduate Dual Degree Programme in collaboration between the Graduate School of International Studies (GSIS) at Korea University (KU) and the School of Finance and Management at SOAS.
Commencing with the 2021/22 academic year, the SOAS-KU Dual Degree Programme established a unique postgraduate pathway in the fields of international studies, business and management, providing graduates with two Masters degrees through study at each of SOAS and KU.
Students may combine the following degree programmes at each partner university through joining the Dual Degree Programme:
While KU Masters programmes are ordinarily two years in length, students of the Dual Degree Programme will instead be able to complete each of a KU and SOAS Masters degree programme in a minimum of two years, depending on the student’s preferred pathway.
Students can choose to commence their Dual Degree programme at KU or at SOAS.
Students that choose to begin at KU will complete Year 1 of the KU Masters Degree and then complete the full 1 Year Masters Degree at SOAS.
Alternatively, students can complete the Masters Degree at SOAS (1 Year) and then join Year 2 of the chosen Masters Degree at KU.
Students registering for the Dual Degree Programme are also eligible to receive a generous scholarship against normal SOAS and KU international tuition fee rates in their respective second year of study.
For example, students that begin at KU will receive a discount on their SOAS tuition fees, and those beginning at SOAS will receive a discount on their KU tuition fees.
Established in 1905, Korea University is one of the nation’s top private universities which seeks to realize a peaceful and happy society for all mankind by contributing to bringing everlasting peace to the Korean peninsula and promoting harmonious co-existence with neighbouring countries.
Korea University' aims to achieve its mission to advance mankind by fostering pragmatic talent possessing creativity, innovative thinking, and open-minded leadership.
Current Korea University students will need to apply for one of the SOAS programmes as listed above during their first year of study.
SOAS departments will nominate students who expressed interest in the dual degree with Korea University in term 2 based on their term 1 coursework performance (and this nomination is also based on the condition of passing all coursework in term 2 and final exams in term 3).
You are required to complete a separate application to Korea University and submit your interim academic transcript (except for MSc Dissertation) to in August before enrolling to KU.
For more information on the SOAS-KU Dual Degree Programme please contact the departments and admissions teams at each institution.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/international-foundation-programme:
Home: £5,760 International: £22,870
For a full list of entry requirements, see our Intermediate Certificate Course entry requirements page .
The International Foundation programme is a 10-month programme providing academic and English language preparation for international students who want to enter undergraduate degrees in Social Sciences, Finance and Management-related studies, and Arts and Humanities at UK universities,
Since the programme started in 1985 we have prepared students each year for progression to undergraduate study at institutions in the University of London and across the UK.
High-ranking British universities recognise the International Foundation as a value-adding academic and English-language programme for international students.
The programme is designed for international students who want to progress to an undergraduate degree at a British university.
You may need to complete a foundation programme for one of two reasons:
We have been running a foundation programme at SOAS for over 35 years and have built up extensive experience in preparing students for undergraduate study.
The online format provides the perfect balance of regular live classes and flexible self-study opportunities.
We use a unique integrated approach to academic English development, where each academic module has a dedicated English support teacher working alongside the lecturer.
Our long-serving staff have a deep understanding of our programmes and expertise in guiding our students successfully through their studies.
We provide our students with individual support through regular one-to-one meetings teaching and support staff.
The central London location - all teaching is done by SOAS staff on the Central London (Russell Square) campus, within walking distance of the SOAS Hall of Residence and the West End of London
The UK campus experience that our students receive – all our students have full SOAS status and have access to all SOAS facilities including library, student support services and students’ union clubs and societies.
Students receive guaranteed offers for all SOAS undergraduate degrees
Students who achieve a minimum level of academic and English language performance on the Foundation programme are guaranteed progression to SOAS for undergraduate study (subject to satisfying eligibility requirements), and will receive a 20% discount for the first year of undergraduate study.
However the Certificate award from the University of London is recognised by UK universities as an entrance qualification for undergraduate degree programmes and our Academic Advice Team provides one-to-one support with every stage of the undergraduate application procedure.
Information about recent progression to undergraduate study at SOAS and other universities can be found in our Student Destinations Lists .
There is an Early Bird Discount of £1,000 off tuition fees to offer holders who accept their offer by 15 May 2025.
This programme aims to:
The programme runs from September to June over two semesters lasting 12-14 weeks each.
There is also a ‘reading week’ (a week without classes, which students use to catch up on their reading and work on their assignments) in the middle of each semester.
The teaching calendar runs for the first 11 weeks of each semester, followed by an assessment period of 2-4 weeks.
Students attend between 15 and 19 hours of classes per week for the duration of the teaching calendar.
There is a range of class styles.
Students attend lectures with all the other students in their academic modules, and small-group seminar tutorial discussions.
These are led by an academic lecturer.
Students also attend Intensive English for Academic Study module classes, and English support classes connected to each of their academic subject modules.
Literacy
This module follows on from the previous one and so many of the conventions and skills already introduced will be further practised and refined to help students produce written work at a more sophisticated/ deeper academic level.
There will be an additional focus on identifying the elements of ‘good’ academic style and using academic structures and vocabulary to express arguments with clarity and precision.
As well as discursive writing of the argument-based type introduced in the first module, conventions of other types of academic writing will be identified and studied and students will practise producing elements of these in class activities and portfolio work.
Finally, a listening skills element will be introduced in the form of a short lecture that students will be required to listen to /take notes from and use as an additional form of data/ evidence in the end of course essay-writing exam.??
Oracy
The focus in this module will be on studying and practising oral presentation skills of the type students are likely to encounter at undergraduate level.
During the first half of the semester, students will be introduced to key elements of effective presentation delivery and will practice giving short pre-prepared presentations in small groups, based on aspects of lecture topics from the core UMW module, with peer questions and peer feedback.
In the second half, individual students will present to the class, with peer feedback and questions, as well as oral and written feedback from the teacher.?
This module covers the period c.1500-1900 and will introduce students to the main economic, political and cultural forces that have shaped the modern world.
It encourages students to assess the validity of a variety of points of view on these processes and to understand that what may appear to be permanent features of life may in fact be recent innovations.
The course also encourages them to analyse how and why these processes occurred and who benefitted from them in both the short and the long term.
The course is inter-disciplinary and so will further encourage the students to develop their academic skills by seeing connections between ideas they may encounter in their optional modules.
The assessments on the course will encourage students to reflect not only on what they have learned, but what this means to them.
This module covers the period since c.1900 and will introduce students to the main economic, political and cultural forces that have re-shaped modernity.
It encourages students to assess the validity of a variety of points of view on these processes and to understand that what may appear to be permanent features of life may in fact be simply the latest stage in a process of change.
60 credits from Guided Options
This module addresses major aspects of business studies and economics by relating the core topics of business studies to economic contexts.
Emphasis is placed on the overall concepts involved and the way they interact.
Short case studies will be utilised during tutorials throughout the module, thus allowing students to apply their knowledge to real business situations.?
Students will acquire an understanding of both business theory and economics and how to apply one to the other with some basic analytical techniques.
The module provides a broad introduction to the practice and theories central to mass media engagement in contemporary Western society.
Key areas of knowledge are introduced, drawing on examples from print and digital platforms, television, film and the internet.
Media is not just receptive but actively creative of the world we inhabit.
How we attend to media makes all the difference to the world we experience.
How mediated words, sounds and images attend to us also makes a difference to how we interpret the world.
This module allows students to reflect upon utilizing the world through media and understanding the world through media.
It posits that Western media inhibits the latter at the expense of the former.
This is a vibrant multidisciplinary field drawing on economics, politics, law, anthropology and other social science subjects.
Current discussions on development issues are analysed on the module including, how levels of development should be measured, Sustainable Development Goals, the effect of colonialism and weaknesses in political governance on the development process, the impact of grassroots protest movements and the work of NGOs, and the role of foreign aid as a vehicle for development.
The module explores the way international law is made and the role that organisations like the United Nations, the International Court of Justice and the World Trade Organisation play in the creation, interpretation, and enforcement of international law.
It examines critically how international law aims to govern the use of force by States, protect human rights and the environment, regulate economic cooperation between nations, and punish those individuals who commit serious international crimes such as genocide.
This module is designed for students who have studied mathematics at High School and focuses on the mathematical and statistical background and skills which are particularly relevant for the study of economics, business and finance.
It aims to bridge the gap between high school and undergraduate mathematics by providing students with a deeper grounding in key mathematical and statistical concepts and the English terminology of the subject.
The module covers topics in algebra, calculus, probability and statistics.?Students will learn how to work with matrices in order to solve systems of equations.
They will also be introduced to differential and integral calculus and will learn how to solve optimization problems as well as various types of differential equations.
Students will further be introduced to the concepts of probabilities, random variables, various density functions, descriptive statistics and hypothesis testing.
A strong emphasis is put on the connection between the mathematical concepts taught and their application in the fields of economics, business and finance.
The module explores the world of politics.
It aims to provide participants with a knowledge of concepts, ideas and practices to enable them to evaluate political activities and outcomes.
This course also offers students the opportunity to discuss, measure and evaluate their own views on politics.
The first segment of five lectures and classes will survey key sets of ideas (ideologies) and concepts that have informed the analysis and practice of politics.
The second segment of two lectures will then concentrate on government and politics – or the practice and application of politics - by taking a look at the British political system.
The final segment of three lectures will look at politics in the international realm and in particular, the political relations between states.
This interdisciplinary module encourages students to develop the skills and vocabulary needed to successfully engage with English Literature and Art History programmes at degree level.
Having developed an understanding of the historical contexts of literatures in English and of art practices and institutions across Asia, Africa, Europe and the Americas, students will be enabled to break free from traditional Anglocentric and Eurocentric canons.
Through exploration and discovery, comparison and contrast, and deeper analysis and evaluation, it is hoped that a more profound understanding and enjoyment of art and literature will be cultivated.
The course introduces students to the discipline of history, helping them to understand different approaches, themes and schools of history and to develop an awareness of the craft of the historian.
It is a course for students who want to understand why the world is structured the way that it is.
This course will provide insights into the events, people and cultures that have shaped the modern world.
The course examines the history of the world since the eighteenth century looking at the rise and fall of political and economic systems in this period.
It will consider and attempt to explain the rise of European (and US) power in the world and examine the legacy of this imperial past.
Throughout the course we will examine the debates generated by historians as they attempt to explain these huge changes and students will be encouraged to think critically about the opinions offered by various thinkers.
Student are assessed through a variety of coursework activities including different forms of written assignment, including essays, research notes, literature reviews and response papers and oral presentations and discussions.
Students may be assessed in some modules through oral or written examinations.
Please note: this is a stand-alone foundation programme and is not automatically linked to a designated undergraduate course.
Therefore, it is not eligible for funding from Student Finance England (SFE).
You do not need an invoice to pay your fees - you just need to quote your student ID/reference number.
If you are sponsored by a funding or government body or Embassy, you must provide written proof from them that your fees will be paid, with the contact details of the sponsor, before enrolment.
If the sponsor does not pay, you are responsible for paying the fees.
All information on paying your tuition fees, including how to pay by instalments, scholarships and loans, can be found on our Paying your tuition fees support page.
You may be required to purchase books for some modules.
Students taking the World Art and Literature module may be required to pay for some gallery visits where there is an entrance charge.
Please see the full terms and conditions for Foundation.
William Hetherington is the academic lead at the Foundation College.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/soas-library:
Advanced Search
The SOAS Library is open 7-days a week, from 8am-11pm on weekdays, and 9:30am-10pm at the weekend.
Visit the SOAS Library and find out how to borrow books, get membership and use our study spaces.
Find out how the Library can support you in making full use of our services and facilities.
Explore our catalogue of over 1.3 million volumes housed in the SOAS Library, together with a major collection of e-books and e-journals.
The UK's leading collection of archives, manuscripts and rare books on Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
SOAS Library is one of the world's most important academic libraries for the study of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our library guide is an online resource that helps you find detailed information about the library collections, resources, services and your subject librarian for when you need further help.
The library is closed on bank holidays as well as Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Year's Eve and New Year's Day.
Sometimes we are open outside of the school closure dates, please email us if you're unsure or would like further information.
SOAS library will be closed for the Bank Holiday on Monday 25 August 2025 .
The library will operate normal opening hours, from 9.30am to 10pm, on Sunday 24 August and re-open at 8am on Tuesday 26 August 2025.
Co-creator intern Shloka Murarka describes her work with the SOAS Library in creating a 'radical reading list', highlighting independent publishing from around the work.
As part of the celebrations surrounding the SOAS Library’s 50th anniversary, we asked the SOAS community to share their memories of their time spent studying, researching, hunting for books, and “chair racing”.
Author Elaine Chiew will discuss the academic research she conducted as an early historian into the self-imaging of Chinese women in early Singapore photography as a limited exercise of agency that formed the background of her novel The Light Between Us.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/soas-library/soas-gallery:
‘After the Assembly: Constituting India’ commemorates the 75th anniversary of the Constitution of India, the longest living constitution in the global South.
The SOAS Gallery is currently closed while we install our next exhibition.
We will reopen on 17 July.
The gallery is closed on bank holidays as well as Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Year's Eve and New Year's Day.
The Gallery is also closed during exhibition changeovers.
The Japanese Roof Garden is accessible through the exhibition galleries and follows the same opening hours.
Be the first to know about new exhibitions, events, and more.
The SOAS Gallery is a vibrant space that hosts a changing programme of exhibitions from Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
We want to be open and accessible to all visitors to ensure that the widest number of people can enjoy the building, collections and exhibitions.
Browse our unique collection of artworks and objects, as well as our past exhibitions.
Explore all of our previous exhibitions

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/soas-library/special-collections:
One of the leading UK collections of archives, manuscripts and rare books on Africa, Asia, and the Middle East.
We make available over 3 kilometres of archives, 60,000 rare books, and manuscripts in over 140 languages to students and researchers globally.
How to book a visit, our opening times, and where to find us.
Find out more about our collections, which reflect the British interaction with Africa and Asia over the last 250 years.
Catalogues to help you locate the Special Collections material you may wish to use.
Opening SOAS Library's extraordinary collections to users around the world for learning, teaching and research.
Browse our past blog posts
Professor Niki Alsford unveils Formosa Church News, a missionary publication that became a platform for local voices, a tool for linguistic preservation, and a record of Taiwan’s evolving identity.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/why-i-chose-ma-global-media-and-digital-communications-soas:
Lilato Madiri
Published 3 July 2025
Since 2017, I have been working in community management, building digital networks and nurturing spaces for brands across various industries - engaging people at the intersection of culture, communication, activism, and commercialisation.
This involvement gave me first-hand experience of how digital media and online communities were reimagining the structures of voice, visibility, and power.
I didn't want to study media through a Western lens, so it was a clear yes to SOAS.
I returned to academia because I truly believed we were experiencing a turning point - the West was finally waking up to the realities that the global majority and its diaspora have long known.
That kind of collective rupture, particularly the heartbreak of 2020 and the Black Lives Matter movement, created a sense of urgency.
If I were going back to study, it had to be at one place and one place only.
I didn't want to study media through a Western lens, so it was a clear yes to SOAS and the MA in Global Media and Digital Communications course.
We're in a media moment like no other.
TikTok, clickbait headlines, AI-generated misinformation, "bros" with podcasts, Patreon, streaming: everything is contested, and everything is up for grabs.
Media power and resistance have always intertwined.
Look at who gets silenced and who gets platformed, and you'll understand a society's politics.
If the media is censored, so is dissent.
If the media is open, so is the path to liberation.
We are living through a profound media shift - one that is not only technological but also ideological, emotional, and political.
The stories we tell, the platforms we use, and the voices we hear (or don't hear) are all up for negotiation.
In such a moment, studying media isn't just relevant - it's essential.
Today, the vast majority of people access news through social media platforms.
TikTok, Instagram Reels, and short-form videos are overtaking traditional outlets in reach, particularly among younger generations.
But this shift isn't just about format.
It marks a deep change in how people encounter truth, how attention is engineered, and how narratives are manipulated.
We're not just reading the news; we're swiping past it.
We're laughing, crying, and scrolling through global crises without time to pause.
What used to be the domain of media professionals, fact-checking, source evaluation, and long-form analysis, is now interwoven with entertainment, algorithms, and virality.
And increasingly, even traditional outlets are adapting to these logics, employing clickbait headlines, meme aesthetics, and reactive content to stay visible.
Meanwhile, AI has introduced an even more insidious complication: what happens when you can't trust that what you're seeing even happened?
With deepfakes, manipulated clips, and AI-generated "news," the boundaries between real and fabricated are blurred.
Context collapses.
Memory becomes malleable.
And in this state of confusion, disinformation flourishes
This is why media literacy must become a priority - not just in universities, but in everyday life.
We need critical media education that teaches not just how to use media but also why it matters who creates it, who funds it, and who benefits from its circulation.
As a media student, especially one grounded in decolonial perspectives, I've come to see that power operates not only through what we are allowed to see, but through the frameworks we are taught to interpret these frameworks.
In a digital world moving at relentless speed, memory is at risk.
And when memory fades, so does accountability.
The danger isn't just forgetting the past - it's letting someone else rewrite it.
Censorship, silencing, and propaganda are not just things that happen "elsewhere." They're baked into the architecture of media itself.
Studying media through a critical lens helped me understand that censorship, silencing, and propaganda are not just things that happen "elsewhere." They're baked into the architecture of media itself - into what gets funded, whose stories get algorithmically boosted, and whose pain gets turned into content.
If media reflects a society's politics, then a society with restrictive, polarised, or manipulated media is likely experiencing the same at a governmental level.
Media doesn't just reflect the state - it often prefigures it.
There are so many accessible courses on how to go viral or how to profit from being online, but very few about how to understand media systems themselves.
That's why studying media now is about more than understanding content creation or communication strategies.
It's about understanding how power works.
It's about who gets to shape the collective memory of this moment, and how we resist attempts to erase, distort, or silence it.
Unfurling: a slow, radical untethering into something freer.
Header image credit: Camilo Jimenez via Unsplash
Lilato Madiri is pursuing an MA in Global Media and Digital Communications at SOAS.
Zimbabwean born, raised and based in the UK, she is passionate about diasporic media, decolonial storytelling, and digital community-building.
Outside of her studies, she is a Freelance Community Manager, and building NHAKA - a new-gen beauty space rooted in heritage and culture.
If you haven’t heard of UCAS Clearing before, fret not!
Here, SOAS Digital Ambassador Sinem shares her experience of the Clearing process and offers top tips of how to prepare.
MA Creative and Cultural Industries at SOAS University of London
MA Global Media and Digital Communications at SOAS university of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/why-i-chose-ma-human-rights-law-soas:
Anna Sandt
Published 21 November 2024
MA student Anna moved across the pond to pursue a human rights law degree at SOAS.
In her blog, she runs through the key reasons why, from learning about diverse global contexts to gaining hands-on work experience.
In the last year of my undergraduate degree, I knew that I wanted to pursue a higher degree in law, but also wanted the flexibility of a shorter program with classes that had a more interdisciplinary approach.
Embarking on the journey towards an MA in Human Rights Law at SOAS was driven by multiple compelling reasons that stirred my passion for the subject.
Renowned for its global perspective and commitment to social justice, SOAS stands as a beacon for those passionate about the human rights field.
Let's dive into the five key motivations that fueled my final decision to attend SOAS.
One of the main reasons I chose to attend SOAS was the opportunity to learn through global perspectives.
The curriculum and class discussions here truly offer an in-depth exploration of human rights through incredibly diverse cultural, historical, and geopolitical contexts.
The program challenges preconceptions and encourages a very nuanced understanding of complex issues on a global scale.
Having both academic expertise and real-world experiences, the lecturers at SOAS foster an environment of critical thinking, interdisciplinary approaches, and genuine commitment to effecting positive societal change.
During my time here, I’ve found that the teaching style at SOAS encourages students to explore perspectives that may be unfamiliar, as well as promotes a dynamic and intellectually stimulating learning environment.
The emphasis on hands-on experience was a primary reason why I chose SOAS.
Having the opportunity to work on actual cases alongside legal professionals has been such a rewarding experience that has led me to find my true passion and career goals.
The programs offered enable the practical application of classroom knowledge to real-world cases, bridging the gap between theory and practice.
SOAS isn't just where I study; it's where I've grown, personally and academically, fostering a profound sense of interconnectedness and shaping me into a more globally conscious individual.
Another reason I chose SOAS was the amazing networking opportunities.
SOAS provides opportunities for practical engagement, guest lectures, and networking events.
The campus is always busy with different events that are super informative and a great way to meet potential employers, renowned academics, as well as prominent politicians.
Last but certainly not least, one of my favourite parts about SOAS is the connections between current students and alumni because it offers a great platform for insight, mentorship, and industry connections.
I originally learned about SOAS from an alum, and I’m still so grateful for all the alums I’ve connected with.
SOAS graduates across the globe have successfully established themselves across various sectors, including law, international relations, academia, and policymaking.
Choosing SOAS for postgraduate studies has been a transformative journey, providing a rigorous academic foundation and opportunities to translate knowledge into tangible impact and build a network that extends far beyond the classroom.
Anna Sandt is pursuing an MA in Human Rights Law.
Her academic areas of interest are immigration law and women’s rights.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/beyond-west-end-soas-guide-londons-alternative-theatre:
Lilly Clausen
Published 26 March 2025
Alright, I guess I should just come out with it: I’m a theatre kid.
Or at least, I was .
I don’t perform nearly as often as I once did, but I like to think the bold, belting Elle Woods and Mayzie La Bird I embodied in adolescence still live inside me.
Not to sound too dramatic (thought that would be fitting), but nothing can compare to live theatre, from its addictive show tunes to its well-earned standing ovations.
Yet beyond entertainment, SOAS has reminded me that theatre can be a critical tool for challenging structures of power, changing minds, and, above all, creating community.
SOAS has reminded me that theatre can be a critical tool for challenging structures of power, changing minds, and, above all, creating community.
So, here’s a list of nearby theatres I’ve discovered through SOAS faculty and fellow peers—artistic institutions that not only put on fantastic productions but also inspire critique through stagecraft.
Formerly known as the Tricycle Theatre, the Kiln has been a home for both theatre and cinema since 1980, striving to “bring unheard voices into the mainstream.” I recently went with a few classmates to see their production of The Lonely Londoners , and I left the venue stunned, my mind replaying the imagined choreography over and over.
I’ve been looking forward to their upcoming production of Shanghai Dolls by playwright Amy Ngu ever since I arrived in London.
The play follows two Chinese historical figures—Madame Mao and Sun Weishi—who first meet at an audition for A Doll’s House .
But what makes this theatre truly stand out is its Conversations at the Kiln series, which offers Londoners the chance to hear from international artists about their creative processes and the political inspirations for their work.
This is easily the biggest theatre on this list—and the oldest too!
As they put it, “The Old Vic is for anyone, and always will be.
For generations to come.” Thanks to over two centuries of productions, its dramatic history includes air raids, the first stagings of Shakespeare's First Folio, and the career debuts of the likes of Judi Dench and Maggie Smith.
Recently, the Old Vic hosted Rami Malek and Indira Varma in Ella Hickson’s new adaptation of Oedipus , including Relaxed, Captioned, and British Sign Language (BSL) interpreted performances.
I probably shouldn’t play favourites, but at the recommendation of a few of my professors, I’ve managed to see every show in New Diorama’s season so far (at incredibly reasonable ticket prices), and I have no intention of stopping anytime soon.
[The show collaborated] with the Anti Raids Network—offering audiences practical lessons on resisting border enforcement within their communities.
Twice named Fringe Theatre of The Year, they’re known for producing politically poignant plays such as King Troll (The Fawn ) : “A dystopian tale about the corrosive impact of state racism and the monster within two migrant sisters.” I thought this show was especially remarkable given its collaboration with the Anti Raids Network —offering audiences practical lessons on resisting border enforcement within their communities.
The Bush Theatre first began with a theatrical adaptation of John Fowles’ The Collector in 1972.
Since then, it's become a hub for emerging and established playwrights alike in its new location in the Passmore Edwards Public Library.
One of their most unique projects?
A celebration of the 400th anniversary of the King James Bible, where they produced a play for each of its 66 books .
Beyond the stage, the Bush Theatre is very committed to serving its local community, running programs like a play reading club and a writing group—the sort of creative gatherings that one can find all around SOAS.
At Arcola , you’ll find a mix of new productions and reimaginings of the classics.
I’m especially fond of their pay-what-you-can scheme, ensuring that their performances are accessible to as many people as possible.
One of their most notable programs is the Arcola Lab , a residency that provides rehearsal space and showcases for ethnically diverse and refugee artists.
As Mehmet Ergen, Arcola’s Artistic Director, describes: “The diversity of artists involved in British Theatre is one its great strengths.
The difficulty of gaining a footing in the arts establishment if you are not from a narrow range of backgrounds is one of its great weaknesses.
Through Arcola Lab, we will bring more excellent art to more people by providing space and support for diverse artists.”
I’m also waiting not-so-patiently to see their “radical reimaging” of Simon Stephens’ play Heisenberg this year.
Whether or not you’re a retired theatre kid like me, I highly recommend a visit to at least one of these theatres.
Odds are that you’ll run into someone from SOAS in the audience!
A.L.
(Lilly) Clausen received an MFA in Writing from the University of San Francisco and a BA in International Political Economy from Sarah Lawrence College.
She is currently an MA candidate in Cultural Studies at SOAS, University of London, where she researches the publishing industry through the framework of late-stage capitalism.
When she's not lost in a good book, Lilly loves to sing, tap, and craft stories on the page.
The switch from school to university can be challenging, so making sure you’re prepared is vital.
Here are some tips to help you get ready for the exciting move this summer.
London is home to hundreds of plays and performances throughout the year.
Make the most of what's on offer on a student budget.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/my-favourite-study-spot-1-photo:
Imogen Ashfield
Published 19 March 2025
There’s no single ‘perfect’ place to study - some thrive in the quiet hum of the library, while others get energy from the buzz of cafés and common rooms.
As term two winds down and exam season approaches, we asked some our students to share their favourite study spots and give you an insight into some of their favourite spaces on campus.
Whether you’re looking for a change of scenery or need some motivation, let these snapshots inspire your next study session.
This photo was taken in the Senate House Library .
It is my favourite place to study when I have to focus.
It is really calm and studious, and as it’s on campus, I can go directly after my classes.
I always have my AirPods with me because listening to music really helps me to concentrate.
I like to take notes in my notebook, but I always have my laptop with me for proper research and redaction.
I can stay here for hours, so I always take my water bottle, and I usually go for a sweet treat or coffee break once in a while!
- Morgane, MA International Studies and Diplomacy
This is my favourite study spot in SOAS Library, on Level D by the window.
The natural light here is amazing, and the colour of the wooden desk with the greenery outside makes me feel relaxed.
There aren’t many distractions outside the window, and usually, it's very quiet.
Plus, it’s easy to find the study references I need.
It's an ideal place for me to concentrate and get work done.
- Linshu Shen, MA History of Art and Archaeology
With exam season approaching, I’ve been spending more time curating my desk space with items that help me feel both productive and comfortable.
My laptop and headphones are essentials for my study sessions, allowing me to block out distractions and set the right atmosphere to bring my ideas to life, whether I’m writing, researching, or revising.
Surrounding them are my agenda, where I keep track of deadlines and organise my to-do lists, and my notebook, which is perfect for when I want to put pen to paper, create mind maps, or simply exercise my creativity in a more tactile way.
My books, stacked nearby, are sources of inspiration and perfect for when I need a break.
Finally, to make my workspace feel more inviting, I’ve started adding personal touches, like a vase of colourful tulips, bringing warmth to my desk and serving as a reminder that a new season is just around the corner.
This space is my favourite study spot because it reflects who I am and leaves room for both creativity and structure.
- Adjua Dokponnou Atauri, BA International Relations
This is my favourite study spot.
This is Mecklenburg Garden at The Goodenough College.
It is really peaceful, with lots of birds chirping and lots of nice flowers blooming in the spring.
It is spectacular on a sunny day.
-Yovin, LLM
As much as I enjoy a cosy coffee shop , my best essay-writing happens at my desk, where I can sound out my syntax and make copious amounts of Earl Grey tea without judgment.
Fortunately, I live at Goodenough College - a postgraduate haven just 10-minutes from SOAS - so most of my neighbours are also buried under exams and existential crises.
My study setup?
Blue light reading glasses (because my screen time is appalling), an ergonomic keyboard (my wrists thank me), and, of course, my ever-changing laptop background.
I switch it up every week or so to keep things fresh.
(ps.
check out SOAS Dr Somnath Batabyal's recent novel Red River in my book stack!).
- Lilly Clausen, MA Cultural Studies
This is a study spot in the common area of Garden Halls, a University of London accommodation .
As a SOAS student, I love studying here, surrounded by students from different universities across London.
The curved booth is super cosy and makes it easy to stay focused.
It’s not a silent space, which is exactly why I like it.
I prefer a relaxed environment with a bit of background noise - it keeps me engaged without feeling isolated.
- Haodong Bai, MA Comparative Literature
Now it’s your turn - what’s your favourite study space?
Share it with us by tagging @soasuni on Instagram or emailing us at marketing@soas.ac.uk .
If you're looking for a change of scenery while studying, explore these iconic spots around the SOAS campus.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/get-your-caffeine-fix-explore-coffee-shops-close-soas:
Published 15 January 2025
If you need a coffee pick-me-up to get you through a busy day of lectures and studying, MA student Lilly is here to introduce the best coffee spots near the SOAS campus.
The defining lifestyle of any university student, whether undergraduate or postgraduate, can be summed up as follows: stifled yawns, syrup-slow blinks, and, for the most unfortunate of us, headaches made of hammers.
But at the risk of sounding particularly swotty (yeah, I’m picking up British lingo!), I must admit, I’ve never been happier to be so tired.
My chronic exhaustion feels not only justified but almost trivial, thanks to my fantastic classes and genuinely fascinating readings.
Nevertheless, sleep deprivation cannot be cured by a lecture or a tutorial, no matter how engaging they may be.
So, for those struggling to stay awake, I offer you the water of life: coffee.
The next time you find yourself in the SOAS neighbourhood in Bloomsbury, London, check out one of these local coffee spots to get your fix:
If you’re on your way to King’s Cross or St.
Pancras, this cute, cosy café is the perfect pit-stop for your commute.
The selection of pastries is small but tempting—as a Dane, I can attest that the Blueberry Danish is particularly lovely—and their espresso blend is one of my favourites.
This coffee shop chain has an unconventional, powerful mission: to reduce reoffending through speciality coffee.
In short, they support and train prison leavers by helping them find employment.
Their Bloomsbury location was actually the very first Redemption site!
For fans of ambience and aesthetics, Burr & Co.
offers a Victorian-inspired coffee house experience.
Since it’s connected to a restaurant, a hotel, and smack dab in an academic hub, it attracts students, tourists, and coffee aficionados alike.
Located in The Brunswick Centre, Fatty Cat is an artisan Asian bakery perfect for those looking for a good pastry with their cup of joe.
I’m especially fond of their batch brew coffee, though I’m still in the midst of taste-testing their wide range of sweet treats.
I’m always a sucker for a two-story coffee shop, and Store Street Espresso isn’t just a good spot for caffeine, but it’s perfect for study sessions whether you’re working solo or meeting friends.
The fact that it’s just a stone’s throw away from the Senate House is also wonderfully convenient.
Now, I’m not trying to promote the sleep-starved lifestyle, but hopefully, these comforting doses of our beloved bean juice will help us keep us energised as mornings grow frostier and afternoons dimmer this winter.
Until Spring arrives, may your yawns be few and your days be caffeinated!

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/accessibility-statement:
This website is run by SOAS University of London.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
We create content to meet the accessibility standards outlined in our technical accessibility statement .
We aim to create all content to be compatible with assistive technology.
You can change the colours, contrast levels, font styles and magnify the page to 300% without the text spilling off the screen.
Use browser plugins or assistive technology such as screen readers to list the headings and subheadings in the page and go straight to the heading you need.
Users of assistive technology such as screen readers can get a list of all the links on a page and understand their purpose from the link text.
Users navigating by keyboard can see the currently focused on interactive element such as links and form fields through a highlighted outline.
Use text to speech browser plugins or assistive technology to listen to content you select with the mouse or keyboard.
Screen reader users can listen to content, navigate the site and interact with menus.
My Computer My Way (MCMW) offer guides to using assistive technologies to use websites with a range of devices.
AbilityNet has advice on making your devices easier to use if you have a disability.
In addition, major operating systems produce the following guidance:
Our website is developed using valid HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to the standards laid out in the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.1) - Level AA.
The website content works with assistive technologies for example, screen readers or text only browsers.
We undertake accessibility audits of the website on a using WCAG 2.1 AA standards which guide our long-term audit and improvement plans.
We work to achieve and maintain WCAG 2.1 AA standards, but it is not always possible for all our content to be accessible.
Where content is likely to create a barrier, we will state a reason, warn users and offer alternatives.
If we have failed to identify a barrier, please contact us .
Our site includes third party content and functionality.
Depending on our relationship with the third party, we cannot always guarantee its accessibility.
Where we link to other websites that may offer benefits to our users we are not responsible for the accessibility of these or any other websites we don't manage.
We sometimes feature third party content or functionality on our website.
This may include:
Where we are legally required to feature third party content or functionality, we cannot reasonably accept responsibility for ensuring it meets accessibility standards.
However, where it is within our control, we will make every reasonable effort to work towards meeting accessibility requirements.
We often create content which is hosted on third party platforms.
This includes:
We are responsible for ensuring the content we supply meets accessibility requirements; however, we are not responsible for the accessibility of the platform itself.
For example, when we add video to one of our YouTube channels, we will ensure any subtitling, captions and audio-description are included as required.
However, we are not responsible for the accessibility of the video player itself.
Where we use rich media we make sure the media control buttons can be used without a mouse and are labelled for screen readers.
We aim to ensure that all video content has one or more of the following: close-captioning, a transcript or a summary of the key information.
Our website has some downloadable resources including Word documents and Portable Document Formats (PDFs): read about the accessibility of downloadable content .
Please contact us at webcontent@soas.ac.uk if you have any problems; be as specific and detailed as you can.
Please also tell us what you like and find useful.
The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) has useful tips on contacting organisations about inaccessible websites .
If you have reported a problem with our website, or asked for an alternative format, but you are not happy with our response, you can contact us at webcontent@soas.ac.uk to register your difficulty.
This helps us improve our systems.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations').
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
This page was last updated on 1 November 2022.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/information-compliance/freedom-information:
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOI) gives a general right of access to information held by public authorities.
It also requires each public authority to produce a publication scheme stating the information which it routinely makes available.
Similar rights in regard to information about the environment have been created by the Environmental Information Regulations 2004 (EIR).
SOAS is subject to FOI and the EIR.
These pages explain how the public can use FOI and EIR to obtain information about SOAS, and what staff need to do to ensure that SOAS meets its legal obligations in this area.
If you require access to information about yourself, please read our Data Protection pages instead.
Further information about your rights under the Freedom of Information Act and the Environmental Information Regulations is available on the website of the Information Commissioner.
The Publication Scheme describes the information which SOAS routinely makes available or intends to publish, and includes links to information which is available on-line.
We recommend that you consult our publication scheme before you submit an FOI or EIR request, as many policies, procedures and other items of information have already been published and can be found via the Scheme.
Explains how to submit an FoI or EIR request and how SOAS will process your request.
SOAS's procedures for handling appeals relating to FoI and EIR requests .
Explains the implications of the Freedom of Information Act and the Data Protection Act for committee secretaries and chairs , including what should go on open and reserved agendas.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/privacy-policy-relating-soas-website:
In this notice, the "Website" means the SOAS website at www.soas.ac.uk.
"SOAS" means SOAS University of London (School of Oriental and African Studies).
SOAS is committed to protecting your privacy and developing technology that gives you a safe online experience.
This privacy notice applies to the Website and governs data collection and usage.
The Website is operated by SOAS University of London (called SOAS in this agreement), who are situated at 10 Thornhaugh Street, Russell Square, London WC1H 0XG.
If you have any queries about the information in this notice, or about the way SOAS processes your data while you visit the website, please contact our Data Protection Officer by email at dataprotection@soas.ac.uk , or by telephone at (+44) 020 7898 4817.
We collect and store information from visitors to the Website when you complete online forms, make online payments, participate in discussion forums or communicate with us by email.
When you make a payment through the SOAS Online Store, we will collect and store bank card details.
The University is PCI DSS compliant.
We do not store credit/debit card details after authorisation.
When you visit SOAS’s Website, we will automatically receive and store certain types of information on our web servers.
We will keep anonymised details of your IP (Internet Protocol) address, browser type and operating system.
We will also keep a record of the pages you have visited on our Website.
Collectively this data is known as “web server logs”.
We only use this information to analyse activity of visitors to our Website and to improve the performance of the Website.
We also use "cookies" and "webbugs", which store information on your computer or mobile device based on your browsing experience, and allow us to improve your experience on our Website the next time you visit.
We aim to improve the website user experience by using Microsoft Clarity.
We capture data about your movement across the website and interactions with the website through cookies, and this helps us analyse user behaviour and improve site navigation and content discovery.
If you opt-in to analytics and performance cookies, we and Microsoft can collect and use this data.
For more information on what cookies we use, how we use them, and how you can remove them, please look at our Cookies and privacy page.
We use the personal data collected through your use of the website for the following purposes:
SOAS will process the data you provide for enquiries about study or applications to courses in accordance with our Course Enquirers, Applicants or Offer-holders Privacy Notice .
We will process data you provide for open days and other events because it is in our mutual interests to stay in touch about arrangements for the event and to record attendance.
When you apply for a short course at SOAS, you will need to provide some personal data to support your application.
We will process this data because there is a legitimate interest in the School managing the application efficiently.
If you apply and are offered a place on a course, then SOAS will process the personal data because we are taking steps to enter into a contract at your request.
We will process your personal data when you make a donation through our online giving page in accordance with our Alumni, Supporter and Donor Privacy Notice .
SOAS monitors usage of the website through cookies where this processing is necessary to support the legitimate interests of the School and visitors to the Website, insofar as it enables the School to improve the performance of the Website and optimise the experience for each visitor.
If you opt-in to receiving newsletters or other promotional material by email or text, we process your data with your consent.
You have the right to object to our processing of the data you provide us with at any time.
You will generally be able to exercise this right by unsubscribing from emails or turning off cookies in your browser settings.
If you are not able to do so, please contact our Data Protection Officer at dataprotection@soas.ac.uk.
SOAS will share personal data you provide through your use of the Website with third parties where you have given us your explicit consent, where it is necessary to provide you with a service, or where we are required to do so by law.
For instance, SOAS uses external companies to provide customer relationship management systems for individuals who express an interest in studying at SOAS, and out alumni community.
If you provide information through the website, for instance by registering for an open day, your information will be shared with the provider of our student recruitment system to the extent that they are a data processor, which means they will only hold and use the data in accordance with our strict instructions.
Where necessary we could be required by law to share your personal with regulatory bodies or law enforcement agencies, or we could be ordered to disclose your personal data by the courts.
We will only share your personal data with countries outside the European Economic Area when it is strictly necessary and in accordance with the following legal safeguards:
Some resources provided by SOAS for members of our community link to external websites, who will have their own policies informing you what information will be collected and how and why it will be used.
SOAS encourages you to review the privacy notices of all external websites you choose to link to from the Website so that you can understand how those websites collect, use and share your information.
Any third-party sites that you can access through the Website are not covered by SOAS's Website Privacy Notice and we accept no responsibility or liability for these sites.
You do not need to sign in or create a profile to use and navigate SOAS’s Website
The length of time your data will be held by SOAS when you use our Website depends on the purpose for which your data has been collected.
If you have applied for a course and are unsuccessful, your data will be retained for one year.
If your application is successful, your data will be retained in accordance with your student record, which is six years from the end of the academic year in which your relationship with the School ends.
If you make a donation to the School via the Website, the factual instance of your donation will be recorded and retained permanently in our donor and supporter database, otherwise your data will be deleted six years after the end of the tax year in which your donation was made.
If you apply for third party halls of residence through our Website, your data will be held for the length of the contract plus 3 months.
If you pay for a course through our Online Store, the financial transaction data including your personal data will be retained for 6 years from the end of the financial year in which the service or product was purchased.
You have the following rights under Data Protection Law.
SOAS must respond to any request you make in pursuance of your rights within one month of receipt.
If you think SOAS is processing your data unlawfully, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioner’s Office, which is the UK data protection regulator.
More information can be found on the Information Commissioner’s Office website .
We will review this notice on an annual basis, and will make updates as necessary to reflect any changes to the type of personal data that we process and/or the way in which it is processed.
This page was created in September 2007, and last updated in June 2020.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/modern-slavery-statement:
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
SOAS is committed to acting ethically and with integrity in all business relationships.
We seek to work with our suppliers to undertake due diligence in the supply chain, take mitigating steps to help manage the risks of slavery and human trafficking, particularly in higher-risk spend categories, and address any problems should they arise.
We fully support the government’s objectives to eradicate modern slavery and human trafficking.
PDF document, 177.78KB

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/contacts:
Find out how to reach our online student support services – we're here to help.
Visit the Accommodation pages .
Visit the Alumni pages .
Visit the Fees, Funding and Finance page .
If you need to contact the HR team, please log a call on the SOAS Service Portal .
If you are not a registered SOAS user, you can contact us by using this specific HR Contact Form .
Please ensure you provide as much detail as possible to enable us to solve the problem quickly.
If you need IT assistance you can contact the Service Desk.
Registered SOAS users need to access the SOAS Services Portal , you can find more information on the the IT support page .
Visit the Library and archives pages .
Visit the Scholarships page .
Visit the Student support pages .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/your-step-step-guide-clearing:
This step-by-step guide contains everything you need to know about what to do on Clearing day.
UCAS Clearing is for anyone who wants to study at University and who does not yet hold an offer.
To apply through Clearing, all you need is your results and an idea of what you want to study.
Before you get started, make sure you have the correct hotline number and know all the key hotline opening times and dates.
Clearing is really simple and if you're anxious about calling, don't worry - our friendly team is here to help guide you through the process.
This step by step guide will walk you through what you'll need to do once you have your results:
If we made you an offer through UCAS Clearing, you need to make SOAS your Clearing choice on UCAS Hub before your place is confirmed.
Just follow these simple steps and you'll have your offer accepted in no time.
Don’t worry if your UCAS Hub takes a while to update.
At busy times and over the weekend it can take up to 48 hours for your confirmation to update on UCAS.
Please call us if you have any concerns at all.
Remember that Clearing places are filled on a first come, first served basis.
Your Clearing offer email will state the validity of your offer.
Please make sure you follow the instructions carefully to add your Clearing choice.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/top-tips-clearing:
In short, clearing is a process where students get matched to university places that haven’t yet been filled.
You might be thinking that means the only places left are on courses no one wants – but trust us, this is not the case.
There are going to be places on some this year, and they’re likely to be quickly snapped up too.
In fact, clearing is a very popular choice for students – in 2023, nearly 55,000 students in the UK found their courses in this way.
Once you have your results, get in touch with us as soon as you can.
Clearing places can fill up quickly.
Being more proactive will improve your chances of getting the course you want.
Our Clearing at SOAS page will give you all the information and guidance needed to make a Clearing application.
If you are thinking of joining us through clearing – or any other university of course – get all your details together in advance ready for making your calls.
So that will include the phone numbers you’ll need (ours is 0203 912 6580 ), your results, including the full qualification name, your UCAS ID (if you have one) and a list of the courses you’re interested in in front of you when you contact our clearing team.
Sometimes there’s nothing better than just having a chat about things.
There are several ways you can find out more and ask your questions – there’ll be opportunities on our Instagram page and you can chat directly to our students to find out what they think about studying here.
Another way to find out more is to come along to one of our Open Days or take our campus tours .
At our Open Days you can tour our campuses, attend talks, speak with our academics, meet our technicians and quiz our students on life at SOAS.
On the campus tour you'll explore SOAS's Bloomsbury campus, visit our World famous library, take a look inside Senate House, and get a taste of London life at University.
Using UCAS Clearing Plus matches you to courses similar to your original choices at universities that have availability.
You'll be able to express an interest in courses you are matched to and tell UCAS if you’re happy to be contacted directly.
Clearing Plus is only open to those of you who are currently studying A-Levels, BTECs, Scottish Highers, Access to Higher Education Diplomas, or International Baccalaureates.
It’s important to note, however, that not all universities use the service, so you’ll be matched based on the assumption that you still want to study a similar course to the ones you originally applied to.
Your form tutors in college will be around on results day, and so will your friends and family.
Don't hesitate to ask them for some help when you're trying to get everything ready – second opinions can be really handy.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/clearing-advice-parents-and-guardians:
If your child’s results aren’t what they hoped, or they’ve changed their mind to switch course or even join university at all, Clearing is a great way to get on the next step of the educational ladder quickly.
In the past, clearing has been a tool for students who didn’t get the results they needed, to be accepted onto their firm or insurance choices.
Today, clearing is not only for this but also by students who’ve changed their mind on what course they want to study, by students who’ve made a late decision to join university and by those who have outperformed in their results and want to aim for a higher level degree.
While the main clearing activity will take place after A-level results day, your child can contact us to apply through clearing from July if they already have their qualification results.
If your child has missed the grades they needed for both their firm and insurance offers, they may still have been accepted by their firm or insurance university, so they should check first before they start applying through clearing.
If they are in the UCAS system, then they can release themselves into clearing, or can find out if they’re in clearing already by logging into their UCAS Hub .
If they’re not in the UCAS system, they can contact us directly.
If your child does need to find a course in clearing, they can start contacting universities directly – each university website will have details of their own hotline or online clearing form.
If they’re offered a place on a course and want to accept, they’ll either need to add the course as their clearing choice in UCAS Hub (if they’ve already applied via UCAS) or may need to provide details to be set up with UCAS.
They can only accept one choice.
Clearing moves at a rapid pace, so anyone who wants to take part should be ready to make calls and find out which courses are available at different universities quickly.
It’s never too early to prepare – whether it’s researching degrees, looking at alternative universities or making a list of other courses they’re interested in - just in case.
The sooner they know which course they want to go for, the sooner they can call – and we recommend doing this as early as possible.
The call into a clearing hotline can seem quite daunting, but we’ll put them at ease, guide them through the process and answer any questions they have to make sure what they’ve chosen is right for them.
Just make sure they have their qualifications to hand and that they know which course they want to apply for.
You can’t make the call on your child’s behalf (we need to speak with them directly), but you can help them make sure they’ve got all the basic information ready - their UCAS Personal ID, details of their qualifications (including A-level, AS-level, GCSE and equivalent results), login details for UCAS Track, and any questions they have about the course/university.
The call into our Clearing hotline can seem quite daunting, but we’ll put them at ease, guide them through the process and answer any questions they have to make sure what they’ve chosen is right for them.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/student-advice-and-wellbeing:
Here at Student Advice and Wellbeing, our aim is to help any SOAS student complete their course successfully through the specialist, professional services we offer.
A confidential service to students needing support for a range of difficulties related to wellbeing and mental health.
Free, confidential advice about finance, immigration and funding to enrolled students and applicants.
The Multi-Faith Chaplaincy at SOAS is committed to fostering a welcoming environment for everyone—regardless of your background, beliefs or identity.
At SOAS we offer a wide range of specialist disability and neurodiverse guidance, adjustment and continued support throughout your time with us.
Useful contacts for students in an emergency, including hospitals and dental care.
Registering with a doctor, student counselling and more.
Where to find childcare and how to apply for help with your childcare costs.
Student Advice and Wellbeing takes confidentiality very seriously.
Find out about our confidentiality policy.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/apply-soas:
Whether starting your university journey or looking to get back into studying, here's everything you need to know to apply to SOAS.
If you're unsure of how to apply or have any questions about the application process please chat with one of our students.
Find out how everything works at Clearing, from dates and where to get support, to tips on how to make the most of Results Day.
Widening access and participation at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/english-language-requirements:
If you have not yet taken an English language test, you can still apply for your degree, but we will include evidence of language requirements as part of your offer conditions.
In all cases we consider the most recent test evidence.
SOAS reserves the right to request additional evidence of English Language Proficiency.
You can demonstrate English language ability in several ways.
You do not need to provide evidence of your English language ability if any of the following apply:
Details of many of the English language qualifications that we accept with minimum scores for Undergraduate and Postgraduate applicants are provided below.
We consider these qualifications alongside other evidence of English language ability, such as your references, curriculum vitae or personal statement.
Please note that we do not accept composite test scores (such as TOEFL MyBest Scores) but we do accept IELTS One Skill Retake.
Please see the Doctoral School English Language Requirements for English admissions to research degrees, which are slightly different from those for Undergraduate and Postgraduate entry.
Please see the Online Learning English Language Requirements for English admissions requirements for Online Learning programmes.
We continue to accept the following online English language tests for September 2025 entry (2-year validity from September 1st 2023):
Please note we do not accept: Duolingo.
Pearson Academic Online or TOEFL Essentials, or Skills for English tests for taught programmes.
In addition to the tests listed above, we also accept a range of alternative qualifications to demonstrate evidence of English Language proficiency.
Generally, these have 5-year validity, but some may have a 2-year validity.
If you do not meet the English Language Requirements for your course in full, you may be offered a 4-week or 8-week Pre-sessional English course (which happens in the summer before the academic year starts).
We also offer In-sessional courses to support you when you start your academic year at SOAS.
In-sessional and Pre-sessional English courses are not available for Online Learning applicants.
Applicants who require a Student Visa must prove their knowledge of the English language when applying.
If you are a national of one of the Majority English speaking countries as defined by the UKVI, you may not be required to complete an additional English language test.
As a higher education provider, SOAS can assess your level of English using a variety of tests and qualifications.
However, you may be asked to provide evidence of a secure English language test (SELT) as part of your Student Visa application.
For this reason, we recommend all applicants who plan to apply for a Student Visa where possible choose one of the following approved SELTs :
As indicated, as an approved institution we are also able to accept tests and qualifications for exemption from the need to take UKVI SELTS, including for example, IELTS Academic, TOEFL At Home or IELTS Academic Online.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/disability-and-neurodiversity-support:
Disability and neurodiversity support at SOAS includes specialist guidance and support for disabled students, including advice on the facilities that are available to you and help to ensure that reasonable adjustments are made to make SOAS accessible.
We work with students who are disabled and/or have neurodiverse conditions.
This includes UG, PG, PGR students, distance learning students and students in the Foundation college.
The term “disability” is wide.
According to the Equality Act (2010), disability can include the following impairments:
If you have a hearing or sight loss or a severe mobility issue, please contact Disability & Neurodiversity team (DNT) via SID or disabilities@soas.ac.uk to let us know as soon as possible.
Students who use screen readers or having any difficulties using the registration portal can register by returning their supporting documents and completed Confidentiality Agreement.
If you aren’t sure if you are covered by this definition but are experiencing difficulties, please contact us by email on disabilities@soas.ac.uk for advice.
Word document, 37.46KB
Disability and neurodiversity support at SOAS can help you with:
Our learning advisers also offer one-to-one, personalised support sessions for students with SpLDs.
This is non-subject-specific support.
The learning advisers are not permitted to proofread but can teach you strategies for proofreading yourself.
The disability administrators can assist with the application process for the Disabled Students’ Allowance.
The administrators offer DSA drop in appointments on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
How to arrange a screening:
Please note: A dyslexia screening does not provide a diagnosis.
A full diagnostic assessment is required for diagnosis.
After you have completed the screening, we will inform you of your results.
If your results indicate a moderate or high probability of an underlying Specific Learning Difference, we generally recommend that you proceed to a full diagnostic assessment.
An educational diagnosis of ADHD will not result in medication.
It will only result in adjustments and support on your course.
If you wish to obtain a medical diagnosis, please speak with your GP.
If you require specialist support e.g.
assistance with access around the campus or halls of residence, a sign language interpreter or note-taker, please contact the Disability Advisors in good time before the start of your course .
This could include students who are Blind or with Visual Impairments, d/Deaf or Hard of Hearing students, students with Autism, students who use mobility aids, or other disabilities that may require specific support.
Please contact DNT to request an appointment with a Disability Advisor on disabilities@soas.ac.uk .
In the meantime, all applicants can review our Guide for Applicants with Disabilities.
When you complete enrolment at SOAS, you’ll be able to register with DNT by completing an online registration form and providing supporting documentation.
PDF document, 283.06KB
You should apply for accommodation as soon as possible to ensure we have available housing to meet your specific requirements.
The Disability and Neurodiversity Team is part of the Student Advice and Wellbeing Department and includes:
We use the feedback we get from students to inform the more strategic parts of our role, eg.
the creation of policy and working with other staff members to make SOAS more accessible.
Whether you are an existing student or applicant, we encourage you to declare any disabilities and contact us in advance to discuss your support requirements.
This will enable us to make reasonable adjustments for the duration of your studies.
We take confidentiality seriously and you can come and talk to anyone in the Disability and Neurodiversity Team on a confidential basis.
However, in order to make any reasonable adjustments it may be necessary for us to pass on information to relevant areas of the School community (such as your academic department, the accommodation office, registry and the examinations officer) or other agencies such as support providers and funding bodies.
This would never be done lightly; we would only reveal the minimum information which that person needs to know and disclosure would only be used as necessary to facilitate your support.
Under the Data Protection Act 1998 we are not able to pass on sensitive personal data including information relating to disability to other parts of the School without your explicit approval.
When you register with DNT, you will be able to complete a Confidentiality Agreement form as part of the process of arranging your Study Inclusion Plan (SIP) More info on Study Inclusion Plan .
The confidentiality agreement will cover any additional supporting document you may provide.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/campus-tours:
Join us for a campus tour so you can see our great facilities first-hand, and experience the vibrant and unique atmosphere that makes SOAS so special.
Campus tours are a great way to not only get to know the SOAS campus but also get a feel of the dynamic atmosphere created by our students.
On a tour you will experience the SOAS campus firsthand as our guides show you our fantastic lecture facilities, the world famous Grade 2 listed library, our on campus gallery, and student community spaces up close.
Complete our booking form and we'll then get back to you to confirm the details of your in-person tour.
On a campus tour, you'll have the opportunity to:
If you can't make one of our campus tours, you can check out our Virtual Tour to preview spaces on campus where students live, study and collaborate.
However, if you have any specific needs or require additional facilities, please email: study@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/research-fees:
Here you’ll find the annual fees for studying on campus research programmes such as MPhil/Phd.
How much you need to pay depends on whether you're assessed as a Home or Overseas student.
This is known as your fee status.
Please note that SOAS does not offer Student visa sponsorship for part-time programmes.
Fees are charged in each year of study on your programme.
The following tuition fees are for the 2025/26 academic year only and may increase by up to 5% in later years of your programme.
You’ll need to budget for these increases as well as fluctuations in your own currency.
Please note that the fees below are for the 2025/26 academic year only.
Tuition fees are charged in each year of study and are subject to annual increases of up to 5%.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/online-learning-english-language-requirements:
Details of many of the English language qualifications that we accept with minimum scores are provided below.
IELTS Academic*
IELTS Academic online* IELTS Academic for UKVI*
PTE Academic* (test centre only)
* normally 2 year validity
In addition to the tests listed above, we also accept a range of alternative qualifications to demonstrate evidence of English language proficiency.
Generally, these have open validity, but some may have a two-year validity.
In all cases, Online Learning students will need to meet the direct entry requirements for the alternative qualifications.
All applicants for postgraduate Online Learning programmes must meet the direct entry English language requirements listed above.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/undergraduate-funding/undergraduate-loans-and-grants:
If you’re studying on a full-time BA, BSc or LLB, HNC and paying the Home fee rate, you may be eligible for UK student loans to pay your tuition fees and contribute to your living costs.
The information on this page is about loans available from Student Finance England in the academic year 25/26.
Visit the website of the relevant funding body for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland .
Contact the Student Advice Service if you need help understanding what loans you can get or if you’re having issues with your Student Finance application and need support.
They can also advise on managing your money, accessing the SOAS Hardship Fund and eligibility for state welfare benefits such as Universal Credit.
Your eligibility for the loan depends on your residency, immigration status, age and previous study.
Refer to GOV.UK for the list of eligibility criteria.
This is paid directly to SOAS from Student Finance England to cover your tuition fees .
You can only receive a limited number of Tuition Fee Loans.
If you studied at university before, this could affect your entitlement to the Tuition Fee Loan even if you didn’t get a qualification or studied outside the UK.
If you left your previous course or had to repeat a year of study due to personal difficulties, you may be able to request an additional Tuition Fee Loan through the Compelling Personal Reasons (CPR) process.
If you’re eligible for full support, you can get a loan to help towards your living costs.
This is paid directly to you by Student Finance at the beginning of each term if you are fully enrolled.
The amount you get depends on whether you live with your parent(s) or not and part of the loan depends on your household income in the 23/24 tax year.
You can use the calculator to estimate what you can receive.
Your Maintenance Loan can only be paid out when:
You will be emailed when you have been fully enrolled and SFE should pay your Maintenance Loan 3-5 working days later.
Your parent(s) or partner can apply for a current year income assessment if they think their taxable income in 2025/26 tax year will be at least 15% lower than the 2023/24 tax year.
If you’re under 25 and a care leaver or estranged from your parents, you can ask to be assessed as an independent student and your parent(s) won’t need to provide their income details for your application to be means-tested.
Contact the Student Advice Service if you need help with your application.
If you have children or are in receipt of certain disability benefits, you may be eligible for a higher maintenance loan which includes a Special Support Element.
You will need to provide a recent benefit award letter and your child’s birth certificate (if relevant).
If you have children or dependent adult(s), you may be able to apply for supplementary grants to help with things like childcare costs.
Disabled Students’ Allowance helps to pay for any extra costs or expenses that you incur while attending your course, that arise from your disability.
Contact the Disability and Neurodiversity team if you need help in making your application.
Check if you can apply online or must complete a paper form and return by post.
You don't need to have a confirmed place at university to apply for finance but you do need to update your application if anything changes.
Apply early to avoid delays receiving your loan in September.
SOAS programmes will not be listed individually in the Student Finance course database, but under generic headings based on course length.
You must select the generic course title that relates to your specific programme to avoid delays in your application.
When completing your loan application do not enter the UCAS code.
Type ‘degree’ in the course title box which will bring up the available options.
Select the relevant generic course title - please refer to the examples to help with making your selection.
Do not enter the UCAS code on the course details page.
Instead, you should put the relevant generic course title in the course name box - please refer to the examples to help with making your selection.
When entering course details in your funding application please enter 'certificate' in the course title box and select the certificate you are going to study at SOAS.
Visit GOV.UK for full details on the interest applied to your loans and when you will start repaying your loan.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/soas-bursary:
At SOAS we wish to support all students to fulfill their potential.
The SOAS Bursary offers additional financial support for students with the greatest financial need.
Last update: 20 August 2025
These bursaries are not available during a student's repeat year of study.
You will not need to make an application for the SOAS Bursary.
Once you have applied to study an undergraduate course at SOAS, you need to make an application for student finance .
Provided you and your parents/guardians have consented to share your information on your Student Finance application we will assess you automatically based on your household income.
This will allow us to view your details on a portal at the Student Finance website.
Where a student is undertaking a programme of undergraduate study that would normally attract student finance, but cannot take up student loans for either tuition fees or maintenance support due to religious reasons, you can be income assessed without lending.
For guidance on this, please contact us at funding@soas.ac.uk .
The Student Finance portal will only provide the information we need to assess your entitlement to an Award.
To be eligible for a SOAS bursary, you must:
Meeting these listed criteria alone will not guarantee this award as these are limited in number.
* 'First’ means an applicant’s parents, step-parents or guardians did not attend university.
This is self-declared data which applicants include in their UCAS application form.
If you are the first generation in your family to attend a higher education institution you must declare this in your UCAS application to be considered for this award.
‘Low participation neighbourhoods’ are areas identified using data of the participation rate of young people in higher education by ward or region.
This information is included with an applicant’s UCAS application form.
There is a postcode lookup tool on the Office for Students website if you wish to check your postcode .
Notifications of bursary awards are sent from Student Finance and awarded students will normally receive these once fully enrolled.
The payment for each award are made in instalments.
SOAS will deposit the cash bursary directly into the student's bank account as follows:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/hardship-funds:
SOAS students experiencing financial difficulties can apply for a grant to help with the cost of living or childcare.
To qualify you must be studying a part-time or full-time on-campus programme.
We have different funds that support SOAS students in different situations.
SOAS Hardship Funds are designed to provide short-term financial assistance to temporary hardship.
If you need advice on your current financial situation, please book an appointment with the Student Advice Service to discuss your options.
Please note that SOAS Hardship Funds cannot help with paying tuition fees.
If you have a financial emergency, please contact the Student Advice Service via SID .
SOAS Hardship Funds for the 24/25 academic year are now closed.
If you’re facing a financial emergency, please contact the Student Advice Service for advice.
SOAS Hardship Funds for the 25/26 academic year will open in October 2025.
Before you start your application please read our SOAS Hardship Fund Guidance (PDF, 165KB) .
To apply, please complete the SOAS Hardship Fund application.
Please take a look at the hardship funds available to SOAS students.
If you find yourself in financial hardship or have above average study costs, you may be eligible to apply for a grant from the Access to Learning Fund.
If you're considering leaving higher education because of financial problems, you're particularly encouraged to apply.
Awards from the fund are discretionary, means-tested and we may not be able to meet all of your costs.
Early applications are recommended as funds are limited and can run out.
To be eligible to apply you must have Home fee status and be enrolled on a full-time or part-time on-campus programme.
You can normally apply to the Access to Learning Fund (ALF) once per academic year.
A second application to the fund will only be considered in exceptional circumstances.
Additional evidence will be required
The Fund cannot help with paying tuition fees.
If you're a full-time undergraduate student you may be apply for a tuition fee loan from Student Finance England .
If you're a postgraduate student, you may be eligible to apply for a Master's Loan or Doctoral Loan from Student Finance England.
Priority is given to the following groups of students when deciding how to allocate the funding:
To apply for the SOAS Access to Learning Fund please complete the SOAS Hardship Fund Application and upload the required documents.
Please use the statement section of the form to explain your current financial situation and how this is impacting on your studies.
Applications take 4 weeks to process and you will be contacted by email with the outcome of your application.
To be eligible to apply you must be enrolled on a full-time or part-time on-campus programme.
SOAS Additional Study Support Funds are awarded based on the following criteria:
SOAS has many diverse groups but would particularly like to support students:
Please note that meeting these listed criteria alone will not guarantee this award as these are limited in number.
To apply for the SOAS Additional Study Support Fund please complete the SOAS Hardship Fund Application and upload the required documents.
International postgraduate and undergraduate students who encounter emergency unforeseen costs or unexpected financial hardship may be eligible to apply for a small grant usually up to £700 from the SOAS International Hardship Fund.
You will need to be able to demonstrate that you had made reasonable provision for living costs and tuition fees before starting your programme, and provide evidence of your current hardship.
Students from the following groups would be considered a priority for assistance
To apply for the SOAS International Hardship Fund please complete the SOAS Hardship Fund Application and upload the required documents.
Any student who has childcare costs can apply to the Childcare Fund.
The fund is not means-tested, and provides a grant of up to £1000 towards the cost of Ofsted registered childcare.
The Childcare Fund is limited and distributed on a first come first served basis, so early application is advised.
The Childcare Fund is designed to help cover the cost of childcare whilst you study your programme.
As funds are limited, we will not fund the cost of tutoring or other extra curricular activities.
To apply please complete the SOAS Hardship Fund application, providing supporting evidence which indicates your childcare costs and birth certificate(s) of your child/children.
You do not need to provide any further supporting documentation unless you wish to apply for further support from the Access to Learning Fund.
Applications can take up to 4 weeks to be processed.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/student-support/student-advice-and-wellbeing/student-advice-service:
The Student Advice Service provides free, confidential immigration, finance and accommodation advice to applicants and enrolled students.
To find out more about how we offer advice please read our Conditions of Service.
PDF document, 106.68KB
We provide advice by email or you can request an in-person, online or telephone appointment.
Our working hours are Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm.
(excluding UK bank holidays and School closure days ).
You'll find lots of useful information and guidance in our Accommodation pages .
Budgeting, living costs and increasing income.
Banking

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/paying-your-tuition-fees:
Payment of tuition fees is a condition of enrolment and you must make arrangements about how your fees will be paid before or during enrolment.
We accept several payment arrangements which depend on whether you intend to pay tuition fees yourself or you have funding in place.
The Fees and Funding team can answer queries about payment methods, instalment plans , as well as SOAS administered bursaries and scholarships .
Information about paying your fees directly to SOAS and the available instalment plans.
Find out about the arrangement to pay fees when you have loan from the Student Loan Company (Student Finance).
Find out how to pay if your fees will be paid by an organisation or company.
Find out about our charging policy and when you can request a refund.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/paying-your-tuition-fees/self-payers-and-instalment:
You’re a self-payer if you, a family member or another individual pay your tuition fees directly to SOAS.
You must pay your fees to SOAS within set deadlines.
You're not a self-payer in the following scenarios:
You have three options to pay your fees:
You must pay 100% of your fees on or before online enrolment.
Please read the payment conditions for enrolment .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/study-abroad-and-exchange/inbound-students-study-abroad/study-abroad-entry-requirements:
You can demonstrate English language ability in several ways: see our English language requirements section for exceptions and alternative qualifications accepted.
If you do not meet the English Language Requirements in full, you may be offered an In-sessional English course or a four-week or eight-week Pre-sessional English course , depending on your test results.
Pre-sessional English is only available for September starters and is not included in exchange agreements (so will be at the student’s cost).
In-sessional courses are free and take place during the term time.
However, you may be asked to provide evidence of a secure English language test ( SELT ) as part of your Student Visa application.
Study Abroad or Exchange applicants who require a Student Visa and plan to take a Pre-sessional English course must provide a SELT test.
If you are not sure if you will require a pre-sessional course or ELAS, then we recommend that you take one of the following approved SELT English test, as this is the safest option:
Undergraduate applicants should have the equivalent of a British 2:1 in their current undergraduate studies.
For example, North American students should have a GPA of 3.3/4.0 and students from Norway should be receiving predominantly grades B and C.
Applicants with a GPA of 3.0, or equivalent, will be considered if they can demonstrate a strong academic motivation or have a higher GPA in their Major.
Please note that we do not offer a first year programme.
Undergraduate students can join SOAS in their sophomore/second year at the earliest.
Postgraduate students must have successfully completed an undergraduate degree with an overall grade that is equivalent to a British 2:1 .
For example, North American students should have a GPA of 3.3/4.0 and students from Norwegian institutions should have an average grade of B/C.
In addition to the requirements listed on our main English Language requirements page, we also accept a range of alternative qualifications to demonstrate your level of English language proficiency.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/summer-schools-entry-requirements:
All applicants must be a university student or a graduate at the time of attendance.
Professional experience can be acknowledged as equivalent to a university qualification.
Participants must be 18 or over at the time of attendance.
Fluency in English language is recommended for SOAS Online Academic Summer Schools.
As a guide, we recommend that non-native English speakers should meet the following scores:
If you are unsure whether you meet the above entry requirements, please contact us to discuss your application.
Applicants whose English language level does not meet our requirements may be interested in our subject based courses with English language support.
Enrolment of applicants who do not meet the entry requirements is at the discretion of SOAS – please get in touch to speak to us about your application and we will be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/alumni-and-family-discount:
The discount is open to Home and Overseas fee-status students.
You must have successfully completed one of the following programmes at SOAS:
You must have studied your programme on campus and not via online learning.
You do not need to apply, the discount will be applied automatically once you have enrolled.
Please deduct the discount amount when paying your tuition fees.
As a family member of SOAS staff or alumni, you may be eligible for 25% off your tuition fees in the first year of your programme.
Family member is defined as grandparent, parent, sibling, child or spouse.
If your family member is a SOAS graduate or alumni, they must have completed any of the following degrees at SOAS: Foundation, Undergraduate, Postgraduate Taught, or Postgraduate Research degree (summer school, short or online learning courses are not eligible.
Eligible students can apply after they accept their offer to study at SOAS by completing our Family discount application form .
You will be asked to provide documentary evidence of your relationship such as a photocopy of birth or marriage certificate to fees@soas.ac.uk .
If approved, the discount will be applied automatically once you have enrolled.
The reduction only applies to the first year of a full-time course or equivalent part-time enrolment (must be applied for within the academic year and will not be backdated).
Please note that you cannot receive the SOAS Family Discount if you have already received another discount from the University, such as the Alumni discount.
If you are uncertain about your eligibility or have any other queries about these discounts, please contact fees@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-funding/masters-loan:
If you’re paying the Home rate of fees and starting a part-time or full-time Masters in 25/26, you may be eligible for a Masters Loan worth a maximum of £12,858 to help fund your programme.
Contact the Student Advice Service if you need help understanding your eligibility for the Masters Loan.
The Fees and Scholarships team can help with questions about paying your fees to SOAS and liaising with Student Finance regarding your enrolment and the release of your loan.
If you have questions please email us at fees@soas.ac.uk .
Your eligibility for the loan depends on your residency, immigration status, previous study and age.
Eligible programmes at SOAS:
You can apply online or by post when Student Finance England opens for applications.
You only need to apply once even if your programme is longer than one year.
SOAS programmes will not be listed individually in the Student Finance course database, but under generic headings.
Your loan payments will be spread out across all the academic years of your course.
The loan is paid directly into your bank account in three instalments per academic year when you are fully enrolled.
For example, if you’re studying a two year Masters and taking out the maximum loan of £12,858, you’ll receive £6,429 in year 1 and year 2.
If you’re studying an on-campus programme you’ll be eligible to pay your tuition fees in instalments that align with your loan payments dates (if your annual fees are more than £1,500).
Find out about the deadlines to pay fees by and how to make your payments.
You can make your tuition fee payments via SOAS Web Payments .
Your Masters Loan payment may not cover the amount of tuition fees due to be paid, it’s important to budget for this when planning your finances prior to starting the programme.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-funding/doctoral-loan:
If you’re paying the Home rate of fees and starting a part-time or full-time MPhil/PhD in 25/26, you may be eligible for a Doctoral Loan worth a maximum of £30,301 to help fund your programme.
The information on this page is about loans available from Student Finance England for the academic year 25/26.
Contact the Student Advice Service if you need help understanding your eligibility for the Doctoral Loan.
The Fees and Scholarships team can help with questions about paying your fees to SOAS and liaising with Student Finance regarding your enrolment and the release of your loan instalment.
If you have questions please contact fees@soas.ac.uk .
You cannot receive the loan if you’re in receipt of certain types of research funding.
You only need to apply once even though your programme is longer than one year.
Your loan payments will be spread out across all the academic years of your course (excluding a writing up year) and paid directly into your bank account in three instalments per academic year.
For example, if you’re studying a three year Mphil/Phd and taking out the maximum loan of £30,301, you’ll receive £10,100 in years 1, 2 and 3.
This will be paid in three instalments per academic year as listed on your Student Finance schedule of payments.
It’s a contribution towards the cost of your study and you can choose to put this towards your fees or living costs.
Find out about the deadlines to pay fees by and how to make your payments  You can make your tuition fee payments via SOAS Web Payments .
Your Doctoral Loan payment may not cover the amount of tuition fees due to be paid, it’s important to budget for this when planning your finances prior to starting the programme:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/scholarships-bursaries-and-awards/external-scholarships:
These awards are not administered by SOAS.
Please contact the external organisation directly for information on scholarships and application procedures.
Applications are open for Commonwealth Split-site Scholarships for PhD candidates from low- and middle-income Commonwealth countries to spend 12 months at a UK university as part of their doctoral studies in their home country.
The scholarships are aimed at high-quality graduates whose proposed research has a developmental focus and who have the potential to become influential teachers or researchers in their home countries.
Split-site Scholarships are delivered through an existing institutional or departmental link between the candidate's home university and proposed UK university.
These are scholarships and funding search resources which are not administered by SOAS.
Please contact the external organisation directly for information on the funding offered.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/school-arts/department-history-art-and-archaeology/soas:
We are a transformational programme that aims to further the understanding and preservation of ancient to pre-modern Buddhist and Hindu art and architecture in Southeast Asia.
The Programme supported over 90 scholarships between 2014 and 2019 and funds three fully endowed academic posts at SOAS, as well as numerous research and publishing initiatives, conferences, summer programmes, lectures and workshops in London and Southeast Asia.
SOAS-Alphawood Programme is designed to strengthen SOAS’ research expertise and existing institutional links to create a vibrant network linking art, archaeology and heritage organisations in the Southeast Asian region.
We do this through three main streams of activity:
SOAS is delighted to announce that applications are now invited for a number of SOAS-Alphawood Scholarships to support Postgraduate Diploma and MA study in the Department of History of Art and Archaeology, School of Arts for the 2024-25 academic year.
SOAS is delighted to announce that applications are now invited for a number of Alphawood scholarships to support the SOAS- Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art studies in the College of Humanities – or the MA History of Art and Archaeology study in the School of Arts in the 2025/26 academic year.
The Alphawood scholarships form part of an academic programme which is generously supported by the Alphawood Foundation (Chicago).
The remit of the programme is to support and advance, through study and research, the understanding and preservation of Southeast Asian Buddhist and Hindu art and architecture from ancient to pre-modern times.
The remit includes study of the built environment, sculpture, painting, illustrated texts, textiles and other tangible or visual representations, along with the written word related to these, and archaeological, museum and cultural heritage studies.
Since 2014, Alphawood has provided for over 100 scholarships which supported Southeast Asian scholars' postgraduate study at the Diploma, MA and MPhil/PhD levels at SOAS.
Alphawood scholarships also provide support for our students to advance their English-language proficiency through dedicated courses at the SOAS Department of International Foundation Courses and English Language Studies (IFCELS).
The Alphawood scholarships commencing with the 2025/26 academic year will provide for:
Alphawood scholars are selected with the expectation that they, as alumni, will be in a position to apply the learning and skills they gain while on award to the benefit of the galleries, museums, heritage organisations, universities, government departments and other institutions in the Southeast Asian region in which they may go on to work.
To be considered for an Alphawood scholarship, you must have received an offer for your programme of study from SOAS by the time that the scholarships are awarded in March 2025.
All applicants are strongly encouraged to apply to SOAS for a place in the MA/Diploma programme as a first priority by 15 December 2024.
Once you have completed and submitted your application for admission to the MA/Diploma programme, you should then develop your application for an Alphawood scholarship by 21 February 2025 , as set out below.
The following eligibility criteria apply to all prospective applicants to the Alphawood scholarships scheme this year:
For the 2025/26 academic year, these Alphawood scholarships will be available to support one of the following programmes:
For direct entry to MA/Diploma programmes, candidates must meet SOAS’ minimum requirements and provide evidence of their English Language proficiency at the point of application.
This could be either:
Details of SOAS requirements are available here: English language requirements | SOAS .
Successful applicants who do not meet the minimum English-language threshold for entry onto the MA/Diploma programmes in September 2025 will not be eligible to take up an Alphawood scholarship at that time.
Instead, you may be offered English Language training depending on your individual needs.
Preference for training may be given to applicants that can evidence their proficiency in English Language within the last two years – as indicated by an IELTS or equivalent test result.
If you are not able to provide such evidence, please give a reason in the relevant section of your application form.
Applicants will need to prove their knowledge of the English language when they apply for a UK Student Visa (see Student visa : Knowledge of English - GOV.UK ).
Please note that examinations must be booked at a test centre that has been approved by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) .
Applicants are reminded that the examination should be valid for visa application purposes and should be issued with a UKVI reference number.
Results from other types of English Language examinations may not be valid for visa application purposes.
Successful applicants will be reimbursed for the cost of one English Language examination for UKVI test once arrived in the UK and after opening a UK bank account.
Alphawood scholarship applicants will need to submit official IELTS or equivalent results (dated from within the last two years) as a part of the application for admission.
Or provide a valid reason why this has not been possible.
Applications for award are assessed by a Selection Panel comprised of members of SOAS staff with pertinent academic and professional experience and convened as a function of the SOAS- Alphawood Scholarships Selection Panel.
The Panel will assess candidates on the information provided in both the Application for admission to the MA/Diploma programme (academic references, transcripts, personal statements and other relevant information) and that contained in the Alphawood scholarships application.
The Panel will assess applicants on the basis of the following criteria:
Applicants for both the Diploma and the scholarship should produce an original text of which they are the sole author.
Use of AI or large language models (such as ChatGPT) in preparing your application will be detrimental to your application.
Please be aware that all applications will be run through an AI detection tool.
In the past, we have received several applications that used AI, which were generic and uninspiring, and told us little if anything about the individual applicants.
If you make obvious use of AI and LLM to write your scholarship application we will reject your applications and ask you to reapply in a future year.
We want to hear your voice and engage with your ideas, reflections and proposals.
There are 2 steps to the application process.
First of all , candidates considering an application for an Alphawood scholarship are asked to complete their application for admission to the relevant MA/Diploma programme through the following:
Please read the relevant guidance on the SOAS site before you start your application.
All Alphawood scholarship applicants will be required to have an offer of admission in place by the time the SOAS- Alphawood Scholarships Selection Panel begin reviewing applications (February 2025).
As it may take several weeks to assess applications for admission and to offer a place in the relevant programme, we strongly recommended that applicants should complete and submit applications for admission to SOAS as early as possible – and by 15 February 2025 at the very latest.
Second, after submitting an application for admission to the MA or PGDiploma , as applicable, applicants should then apply for an Alphawood scholarship through the Alphawood Scholarships Application Form .
Please note that applicants should complete and submit this Application Form in one sitting.
It is not possible to save drafts of this form, nor to return to a partially complete form at a later date for revision.
As such, all applicants are recommended to make note of the questions and work on responses in a separate document until fully satisfied with the responses.
Applicants may then return to the Online Application Form to input and submit these final responses.
Applicants should use the Personal Statement section in their scholarship Application to demonstrate their interest in the objectives specified in the Alphawood remit, as defined above.
They should also demonstrate their intention to pursue employment, teaching, further study, research or to otherwise make a positive impact in areas of the remit after studying at SOAS.
The deadline for applications for an Alphawood scholarship for Diploma study this year is 21 February 2025 .
If you would like to be added to our newsletter mailing list, send us an email clearly indicating your email address, your first and last names and your home institution.
Southeast Asian art, history of archaeology, knowledge production, colonial collecting, restitution, historiography of Indonesia.
The Centre of South East Asian Studies at SOAS University of London.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/alphawood-online-scholarships-soas-alphawood-postgraduate:
SOAS is delighted to announce that the online pathway to complete the ‘SOAS- Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art' will be supported by a number of Alphawood scholarships in the 2025/26 academic year.
These scholarships are designed to increase access to the online offer by helping scholars to stay in their home country and study the SOAS- Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma remotely.
They will cover the cost of all tuition fees and provide a stipend to help with living costs while studying.
The Alphawood scholarship forms part of an academic programme which is generously supported by the Alphawood Foundation (Chicago).
The remit of the programme is to:
support and advance, through study and research, the understanding and preservation of Southeast Asian Buddhist and Hindu art and architecture from ancient to pre-modern times.
Since 2014, the Alphawood Foundation has provided for over one hundred scholarships which supported Southeast Asian scholars' postgraduate study at the Diploma, MA and MPhil/PhD levels at SOAS.
The Alphawood Foundation also provides support for our students to advance their English-language proficiency.
The Alphawood scholarship is designed to help students to stay in their home country and study remotely for the Online SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art .
This is an 120 credit programme consisting of three core 30 credit modules:
Together with two supporting courses from the following 15 credit options:
Please note that those Alphawood Scholars on the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art, who select the Independent Study Project as a supporting course, must ensure that the chosen topic engages with the Alphawood remit: ‘to further the understanding and preservation of ancient to pre-modern Buddhist and Hindu art and architecture in Southeast Asia’.
The Alphawood scholarship will provide for:
In addition to the main scholarship, those enrolled on the online SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art may be eligible to apply for an additional scholarship to cover the cost of studying the ‘Asian Art in the Museum’ course in London in July 2026.
The additional scholarships will cover all the costs associated with this course, including: tuition fees; travel costs; visa fees; accommodation; and maintenance (daily allowance for living costs).
Details of these scholarships will be provided to those enrolled on the online SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art in due course.
To be considered for one of the Alphawood scholarships, you must have received an offer for your programme of study from SOAS by the time that the scholarships are awarded in March 2025.
All applicants are strongly encouraged to apply to SOAS for a place in the online SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma programme as a first priority.
Once you have completed and submitted your application for admission to the Diploma programme, you should then develop your application for an Alphawood scholarship, as set out below.
For direct entry to the online PGDip programme, candidates should meet SOAS’ minimum requirements and provide evidence of their English Language proficiency at the point of application.
Successful applicants who do not meet the minimum English-language threshold for entry onto the online PGDip programme in 2025/26 will not be eligible to take up an Alphawood scholarship at that time.
Instead, you may be offered online English Language training depending on your individual needs.
Applications for award are assessed by a Selection Panel comprised of members of SOAS staff with pertinent academic and professional experience and convened as a function of the SOAS-Alphawood Specialist Scholarships Panel.
The Panel will assess candidates on the information provided in both the Application for admission to the online PGDip programme (academic references, transcripts, personal statements and other relevant information) and that contained in the Alphawood scholarships application.
The following section outlines the two step process for making applications for entry to the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma and the Alphawood scholarship.
Apply for the online SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art
First, all candidates considering an application for an Alphawood scholarship are asked to complete their application for admission to the online SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art programme through the link on the following page: Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art | SOAS
As it may take several weeks to assess applications for admission and to offer a place in the relevant programme, we strongly recommended that applicants should complete and submit applications for admission to SOAS as early as possible – and by 15 February 2025 if possible.
Apply for an Alphawood Scholarship
Second, after submitting an application for admission to the online SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma, applicants should then apply for an Alphawood scholarship through the SOAS-Alphawood Online PGDip Scholarship Application Form .
The deadline for applications for an Alphawood scholarship is 21 February 2025.
For more information about the SOAS-Alphawood scholarships at SOAS, please contact:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/commonwealth-shared-scholarships:
The Commonwealth Shared Scholarship Scheme is a joint initiative between the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission with funding from UK Department of International Development (DFID) and UK universities, to support scholarships for students from developing Commonwealth countries who would not otherwise be able to study in the United Kingdom.
The Commission funds the cost of tuition fees (at overseas rate), return airfares and other allowances and SOAS supports the student stipend for the award holders.
There are 3 scholarships available for the 2025/26 academic year under the following eligible programmes:
Applicants will need to apply via the Commonwealth Shared Scholarships online application system by 16:00 GMT 12th December 2024.
For advice on how to apply, please refer to the Applicant Advice Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK
In order to be eligible, applicants should:
Applicants must follow two steps in order to be considered for these scholarships:
Apply for your programme:
Apply for the scholarship by 4:00pm (GMT) on 12 December 2024
The scholarship shortlisting period is expected to be completed by the end of February 2025 at the earliest .
Shortlisted candidates will then be sent to the Commonwealth Shared Scholarships Commission for review and informed of this in March.
Successful awardees will be contacted by the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission by June 2025.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/dr-mai-yamani-scholarship:
Dr Mai Yamani Scholarships are open to applications from new international students and will provide tuition fees and support living and study costs.
We are pleased to announce that Dr Mai Yamani Scholarships are now open for the 2025/26 academic year.
These scholarships are open to new international students of all nationalities.
Priority will be given to students who are ordinarily resident in Palestine, Iraq or Yemen.
Each award will provide tuition fees in full and a stipend of up to £17,340 to support living and study costs.
There will also be one Dr Mai Yamani Scholarship available with accommodation provided by GoodEnough College.
This scholarship will cover tuition fees in full, accommodation and up to £3,340 to be paid to the awardee.
Preference will be given to
To apply for this scholarship, applicants should follow the following steps:
To apply for a postgraduate course, please see Taught Masters applications.
You must apply for this scholarship via the online application form by 12:00pm (midday UK local time) on 31 January 2025.
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed in May at the earliest.
Successful candidates will be contacted first, and once all awards have been allocated, unsuccessful candidates will be notified.
For enquiries regarding

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/economic-and-social-research-council-esrc-studentships:
SOAS is a member of the UBEL Doctoral Training Partnership (UBEL-DTP), alongside UCL, Birkbeck, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the University of East London.
The Partnership provides ESRC funding for over 40 new PhD studentships each year.
UBEL DTP Preliminary Applications for ESRC funding are open until Monday 2nd December 11:59pm (UK Local time).
Candidates should make an online application via the Survey Monkey Apply portal.
The application will consist of a preliminary form (including a proposed research summary) and equal opportunities information.
References and a full research proposal are not expected at this stage of the competition.
Prospective students should closely read the resources in the “Useful documents” section above, to help complete their application.
Studentship competitions for 2025 entry are subject to confirmation of ESRC funding.
Full information (entry criteria and pathways) and how to apply for the ESCR Studentships can be found on the UBEL DTP website.
Applicants who make a preliminary application for funding must ensure they apply to SOAS to study.
For further information, please see our page how to apply (research) .
Deadline for Full applications at 23:59
A full application will include a research proposal, training plan, references, further details about your supervisory arrangements and information about whether your research will meet ESRC steers (including an Advanced Quantitative Methods application if applicable).
Group Panel meetings take place.
The group panel will collaborate to assess the applications assigned to their group, using the scoring criteria available on the website.
Panel members are also asked to consider widening participation, ESRC steers and the UKRI international cap (no more than 30% of studentship awards).
Each group will nominate the top portion of candidates for consideration for an award.
A reserve list will also be considered.
DTP Board confirms studentship awards for 2025 entry.
The candidates nominated by each group will be considered as well as widening participation, ESRC steers and the UKRI international cap (no more than 30% of studentship awards).
For enquiries, please contact the Scholarships Office:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/felix-scholarships:
Thanks to the generosity of the Felix Scholarship Trust, Felix Scholarships are available to Indian nationals with first class degrees to pursue postgraduate studies at SOAS, University of London.
The Felix Scholarship covers the full cost of tuition fees, living costs and a return air fare.
The Scholarships Office will notify only those who have been shortlisted by the SOAS Panel by March 2025.
Shortlisted candidates will be invited for an online interview with members of Felix Trust between April and May 2025.
Please note that these interviews are not conducted by SOAS.
Successful candidates will be notified of the outcome by June 2025.
You must follow two steps:
Apply for your programme by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 31 January 2025.
Applicants must submit a complete online application for admission:
Applicants must have submitted a complete admission by the scholarship application deadline.
The panel will be considering your scholarship application TOGETHER with your online application for admission.
Please note that complete application for admission can take up to 4 weeks to be considered by the Department, although this duration can vary depending on the time of year.
You should be prepared to wait up to 6 weeks in busy periods.
Apply for the scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 31 January 2025.
You must apply for this scholarship via the online Felix application form
The donor for the Felix Scholarship wishes to remain anonymous.
The administration of the Scholarship is conducted by the three partner universities (SOAS University of London, University of Oxford and University of Reading), with the support of the Felix Trustees and their agents in London.
The Felix Scholarships Trust now have their own website, which provides information on the Scholarships, and allows Felix alumni to stay in touch.
For enquiries, please contact the Scholarships department: Email: scholarships@soas.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)20 7074 5090

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/felix-non-indian-scholarship:
Thanks to the generosity of the Felix Scholarship Trust, one Felix (Non-Indian) Scholarship will be available to a national from a developing country for entry in September 2025.
The award will be available to either a candidate with a first class undergraduate degree to pursue a Taught Master's programme or a candidate with a first class master's degree to pursue a PhD programme.
This scholarship is aimed primarily at candidates who are nationals of Afghanistan, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Palestine territories (West Bank and Gaza) living in their country of origin.
The Felix (Non-Indian) Scholarship covers the full cost of tuition fees, living costs and a return air fare.
Applicants must submit a complete online application for admission .
Apply for the scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 31 January 2025.
You must apply for this scholarship via the online Felix (Non-Indian) Scholarship application form.
The Felix Scholarships Trust 's own website provides information on the Scholarships and allows Felix alumni to stay in touch.
For enquiries, please contact the Scholarships department:
Email : scholarships@soas.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)20 7074 5090

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/joint-japan-world-bank-graduate-scholarship-programme:
The Joint Japan/World Bank Graduate Scholarship Program (JJ/WBGSP) is open to nationals of eligible developing countries with relevant professional experience and a history of supporting their countries’ development efforts who are applying to a master's degree program in a development-related topic.
Applicants should also hold a bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) at least 3 years prior to applying.
Subject to available funding, JJ/WBGSP offers scholarships for 41 Participating Master’s Programs in 24 universities in the U.S., Europe, Africa, Oceania and Japan in key areas of development, including economic policy management, tax policy, and infrastructure management.
Please note that if you are not admitted to one of these 41 Participating Master’s Programs, you are not eligible to apply for a JJ/WBGSP Scholarship in 2025.
We are delighted that our MSc Economics & MSc Development Economics (with Finance as an exit pathway) are on the list of their participating programs.
Full guidance on how to apply for this scholarship can be found on the JJ/WBGSP website .
The first stage of shortlisting is completed by SOAS University of London.
If you are successfully shortlisted, you will then be sent the link to apply via the JJ/WBGSP website.
Please note that the link to the JJ/WBGSP scholarship application form will only be communicated to you by the SOAS Scholarships Office provided you are shortlisted by the university in March.
Apply for one of the eligible course programmes
To considered for SOAS’ initial shortlisting, you will need to have received an unconditional offer for one of the eligible programmes of study and met the eligibility criteria by the 1st March 2025 .
Apply for the scholarship via the application link
If you are successfully shortlisted, you will be sent the link to apply by the Scholarships Office by 25 March 2025.
You will then need to complete your application by the end of Application Window 2, which lasts from 25 March to 23 May 2025 .
For more information about how to apply to study at SOAS and updates on your applicant, please contact mastersadmissions@soas.ac.uk .
For other queries on how to apply, please contact SOAS at scholarships@soas.ac.uk .
Please visit the World Bank Scholarship Program website for more details on how to complete your application.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/margaret-busby-new-daughters-africa-award:
The total value of the Margaret Busby New Daughters of Africa scholarship will be at least £30,000.
Tuition fees will be deducted from this amount and any remainder may be used towards maintenance.
Please note that accommodation is no longer available from Friends of International Students' House (FISH) and not provided with this scholarship.
Due to the competitive nature of the award only the successful candidates will be notified by the end of June 2023.
If you have not heard from us by then, you should assume your application was unsuccessful.
For guidance to apply for Postgraduate Admissions and information on what makes an application, please visit How to apply (PG).
You must apply for this scholarship via the online application form
Email : scholarships@soas.ac.uk Telephone : +44 (0)20 7074 5090

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/allan-and-nesta-ferguson-scholarships:
Two awards will be made by Allan and Nesta Ferguson, each have a total value of £32,500 which will be put towards tuition fees.
Please note that this award does not include maintenance support or accommodation costs.
The costs of living in London will need to be considered by applicants before applying for this award.
The Allan and Nesta Ferguson scholarship is awarded on the basis of academic merit.
Students offered an Allan and Nesta Ferguson Scholarship must take it up in the academic year 2025/26 and it cannot be deferred to a later year.
Any full-time Master’s programme in the College of Humanities excluding MA Buddhist Studies, MA Buddhist Studies with Intensive Language and MA Traditions of Yoga and Meditation.
The College of Humanities includes the followings departments.
Applicants should:
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by the end of April 2025, at the earliest.
Successful candidates will be contacted first and once all awards have been allocated, the unsuccessful candidates will be notified.
You must submit a completed online application for admission.
You must apply for this scholarship via the scholarship application form by 12:00pm (midday UK local time) on 7 February 2025 .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/beena-sondhi-scholarship:
The Beena Sondhi LLM Scholarship covers full tuition fees to study on the LLM in Human Rights, Conflict and Justice at SOAS, University of London.
The scholarship is open to applicants who have completed their undergraduate studies in India and who have demonstrated strong academic performance and a commitment to human rights and criminal justice.
It aims to support individuals who are not only academically outstanding but also deeply committed to using their legal education to bring meaningful change to marginalised communities through the practise of law.
There is one Beena Sondhi Scholarship available for the 2025/26 academic year which will cover the cost of tuition fees in full.
The selection committee strongly encourages applications from individuals belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, religious minorities and other marginalised groups who have historically faced systemic barriers in accessing higher education and legal professions.
The selection committee recognises the importance of diversity and inclusion in shaping the future of human rights law and criminal justice and is particularly interested in supporting scholars who seek to address injustices within these systems.
While prior work experience in human rights organisations, legal aid, public interest litigation, or advocacy is not mandatory, it will be considered an asset in evaluating the applicant’s commitment to the field.
Further information about the LLM Human Rights, Conflict and Justice can be found on the course webpage, including how to apply.
Academic references can be submitted as a non-required document when you complete your admissions application for your degree programme.
If you have already completed your application for admission, please email your reference to scholarships@soas.ac.uk instead.
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by the end of June at the earliest.
For enquiries regarding:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/camhra-masters-scholarships:
The Centre for Anthropology and Mental Health Research in Action (CAMHRA) is excited to announce its 2025/2026 Master’s Scholarship Programme (MA and MRes).
We're inviting applications from those seeking to pursue postgraduate study to develop anthropological approaches to mental health and mental healthcare.
Newly established within the SOAS Department of Anthropology and Sociology, CAMHRA is a globally oriented and locally connected hub for cutting-edge anthropological research, education, and public engagement on mental health.
Working with partners across academia, statutory healthcare, and policy, and alongside services users, CAMHRA contributes distinctly anthropological perspectives to a growing global understanding of how societies can understand and respond to mental distress and build effective systems of care.
Postgraduate study at CAMHRA is open to people from a wide range of professional and academic backgrounds.
Our cutting-edge MA in Medical Anthropology and Mental Health incorporates diverse perspectives from social, cultural, medical, and psychological anthropology and enables students to conduct their own original research.
The CAMHRA Master’s scholarship is also open to applicants to the MRes Social Anthropology.
This programme is for those who already hold a degree in BA and/or master's in social/cultural anthropology and wish to pursue postgraduate research on a topic in the field of anthropology and mental health.
The MRes is often undertaken in preparation for PhD research.
Further information about the:
CAMHRA Scholarships are designed to offer opportunities for people who would not otherwise study anthropology or ethnographic methods due to existing time, financial, and social constraints.
Specifically, we seek applications from candidates who are currently working in or have lived experience of mental health services; and those from underrepresented groups.
We hope to support such candidates in building distinctive anthropological research skills, and in applying them to their lives or professional contexts.
In your scholarship application, please specify the experiences that you bring to the programme, and the research project that you hope to conduct.
Each full-time scholarship covers 2025/26 tuition fees in full.
For part-time students studying over two years, the award will provide funding for 2025/26 and 2026/27 tuition fees.
The scholarship does not include a stipend for accommodation and living costs.
Join us on Thursday, 3 April 2025 at 1:00pm London time (BST/GMT +1).
Preference may be given to
To apply for this scholarship, applicants should complete the following steps:
Apply for your programme
Apply for the scholarship by 11:59pm UK local time on 30 April 2025.
You must apply for this scholarship via the online application form .
Shortlisted candidates will be invited to interview by June 2025.
Interviews will be conducted online.
Precise interview dates will be confirmed at a later stage.
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by the end of June 2025 at the earliest.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/hyundai-motor-group-scholarship:
Hyundai Motor Group is offering five scholarships intended to nurture talent from Africa at SOAS University of London.
These scholarships aim to cultivate experts for sustainable development in Africa and will continue to establish long-term collaboration models for the next generation of Africa.
The scholarships are designed to create meaningful change and empower students to find solutions to global challenges.
Scholarship recipients will be invited to participate in various networking events and seminars hosted by the donor during and after their studies.
They will also be able to participate in academic and networking activities as alumni of the Hyundai Motor Group Scholarship.
This network and collaboration model between Hyundai Motor Group and the scholars is designed to support this next generation of changemakers beyond their studies as they apply their expertise to careers across the African continent.
A Junior Internship Program for master’s students from Africa will also be launched at SOAS and scholars are welcome to apply for this opportunity in addition.
There are five Hyundai Motor Group Scholarships available for 2025/26.
Four scholarships are available for students beginning a master’s taught degree programme and one scholarship is available for research degree level study.
The value of the 2025/26 master’s award is £27,730 from which tuition fees will be paid in full.
If the tuition fee charge is less, the difference will be provided as a stipend.
The PhD award will cover tuition fees for three years of full-time study as well as the tuition fee for writing up in a 4th year.
An annual stipend (£22,780 in 2025/26) will be provided each year and paid in termly instalments.
You must apply for this scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 25 April 2025 via the online application form.
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed in June at the earliest.
For enquiries regarding your
MA student Francesca Nicol examines the colonial history and ecological impact of the houseplant industry, challenging the perceived 'green' image of houseplants.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/john-loiello-scholarship:
The John Loiello Scholarship was originally established by American Friends of SOAS (AFSOAS) , and is named after alumnus John Loiello , a founding Board member and benefactor of AFSOAS.
Now, thanks to the support of a generous individual and International Student House, the Scholarship has been reestablished and in 2025-26 is offering an American student the life-changing opportunity to study a full-time, one-year taught Master's programme at SOAS in London.
This award covers tuition fees in full and accommodation is generously provided by the International Students House (ISH).
This accommodation will consist of a standard single room with shared bathroom and kitchen facilities, and free brunch at weekends.
To apply for the scholarship, applicants must:
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by the end of May 2025, at the earliest.
Applicants should follow the following steps:
Please find guidance on how to apply for your programme and what makes a complete application.
You must apply for this scholarship by 12:00 PM (midday UK local time) on 7 February 2025 via the online scholarship application form .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/kamran-djam-scholarships:
Thanks to the generosity of the Fereydoun Djam Charitable Trust there are a number of Kamran Djam scholarships available for UK/EU and Overseas fee-paying SOAS students, covering the cost of tuition fees.
The MPhil/PhD scholarship is paid for 3-years.
The MA Iranian Studies is paid for one year (or 2-years if part-time).
The MA Iranian Studies and Intensive Persian for 2-years (or 4-years if part-time).
Apply for the scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 28 March 2025
You must apply for this scholarship via the online application form.
For enquiries regarding your programme application procedure please email mastersadmissions@soas.ac.uk (for master's programmes) or dsadmissions@soas.ac.uk (for research programmes).
For any enquiries regarding the studentship application procedure, please email scholarships@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/mongolian-art-and-archaeology-award:
Following the success of SOAS's recent study day in Mongolian Studies and looking to the growing strength of this scholarly field worldwide, the School of Arts invites applications for a postgraduate taught scholarship in the art history and/or archaeology of Mongolia, including the Mongol Empire.
The competition is open to any offer holder of a master’s degree programme in the Department of History of Art and Archaeology who qualifies for UK Home fees and will begin their MA programme either full or part time in the 2025/26 session.
There is one award available commencing in 2025/26 which will cover full-time Home tuition fees in full.
For part-time study over 2 or 3-years, this award will cover 2-years or 3-years of Home tuition fees respectively, subject to successful progression.
Further information about the eligible degree programmes within the department can be found on the Department of History, Art and Archaeology webpage.
Applications should take the form of a concise statement of purpose and career plans, outlining how you meet the eligibility criteria and outlining how the award would impact your studies.
Applications should not exceed 600 words and must be sent by email in PDF format to scholarships@soas.ac.uk by 14 August 2025 .
Please ensure that your Applicant ID and full name is included in your email and in the file name of your application statement.
The shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by the end of August at the earliest.
For enquiries regarding your:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/shapoorji-pallonji-scholarships:
The Shapoorji Pallonji Scholarships will provide a contribution to fees and living costs calibrated according to merit and availability of funds.
The MPhil/PhD scholarship is offered for 3 years.
Master’s scholarships are available for one year only (or over two years if part-time).
The SOAS Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies would like to spread the net widely and invites students who approach Zoroastrianism from different disciplinary backgrounds, for example, historical, linguistic, anthropological or from within the study of religions to apply.
New admissions (beginning in 2025/26) for full-time (1 year) or part-time (2 years) taught master’s degrees in the following subjects:
Full-time MPhil/PhD (new admissions, beginning in 2025/26) in the following subject areas:
Important: Applicants for the MPhil/PhD scholarships must have demonstrated in the research proposal of their application for admission that their research is in one of the following subject areas: i) Zoroastrianism, both ancient and modern ii) Zoroastrianism with Avestan, Pahlavi, Persian or Gujarati languages.
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by the end of May at the earliest.
Should no suitable candidates be nominated by the panel, this award will reopen for applications in April 2025.
Please check this webpage for updates during this period to confirm whether the award is open for applications or contact the Scholarships Team at scholarships@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/soas-future-leaders-scholarship:
Are you ready to lead change and shape a better future?
We are proud to launch the SOAS Future Leaders Scholarship.
A prestigious new opportunity for outstanding Master’s students beginning their studies in the 2025/26 academic year.
The SOAS Future Leaders scholarship is designed to support visionary students who demonstrate academic excellence, leadership potential, and a commitment to driving positive change in their communities and beyond.
We’re looking to recruit a cohort of scholars who reflect the full diversity and richness of the SOAS student body.
To achieve this, four scholarships will be awarded in each of SOAS’s three academic colleges —with two scholarships for a Home students and two for Overseas students in each college.
At SOAS, we challenge conventional thinking and empower students to question the global status quo.
This scholarship supports future leaders who are ready to confront complex global challenges and contribute to building more just, inclusive, and sustainable societies.
Each scholarship covers tuition fees in full.
To apply for a master’s degree programme, please see Taught Masters applications
You must apply for this scholarship via the online application form by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 15 May 2025.
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by the end of June.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/soas-grant-2024/25:
The SOAS Grant is designed to support the applicants who are academic achievers but in financial need.
There is one scholarship available valued at £24,000 in total and will act as a fee waiver.
Any amount remaining after tuition fees have been deducted will be paid directly to the student in three instalments across the 2025/26 academic year.
This scholarship is for one year only at full-time rate (or part-time equivalent).
You must apply for this scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 2 May 2025 via the online application form .
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed in June 2025 at the earliest.
The successful candidate will be contacted first and once the award has been allocated, unsuccessful candidates will be notified.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/anthony-dicks-memorial-scholarship:
There are a number of Anthony Dicks Memorial Scholarship available for 2025/26.
Each award provides £6,000 towards tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/bernard-buckman-scholarship:
The Bernard Buckman Scholarship was established in 1992 with generous support by Mrs Buckman in memory of her late husband who was a Governor of the School.
There is one Bernard Buckman Scholarship available for 2025/26 which will contribute towards the cost of tuition fees, valued at £6,000.
Further information about the MA Chinese Studies degree programme can be found on the course webpage, including how to apply.
You must apply for this scholarship by 12:00 PM (midday) UK local time on 2 May 2025 via the online application form .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/csjr-postgraduate-student-bursary:
The Centre for the Study of Japanese Religions offers a CSJR Postgraduate Student Bursary in Japanese Religions to be held at SOAS, University of London.
The total value of the scholarship is £5,000 for one year for full-time or part-time programmes, providing a contribution towards tuition fees.
If the successful candidate receives a grant to cover fees from another funding body, the bursary can be used towards maintenance.
Applications are invited from outstanding students of Japanese religions, regardless of nationality.
To apply for a:
Guidance for applying to a Research Programme and information on makes a complete application can be found on the How to Apply webpage.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/ds-cedep-online-distance-learning-bursary:
There are four DS-CeDEP Online Learning Bursaries of £3,000 each available for 2025/26.
Each award will act as a fee waiver towards tuition fees.
This bursary is available to students studying the following Online Learning programmes beginning in April 2025:
Apply for the scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 21 March 2025

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/eddid-financial-holdings-bursary-award:
EDDID is partnering with SOAS University of London and generously offering four bursaries of £2,000 each to master’s students in MSc Economics or School of Finance and Management courses.
Bursaries are offered to existing students in the current academic year 2024/25.
Two awards are based on financial need and two are based on academic excellence.
Anchored in Hong Kong, Eddid Financial is an all-encompassing financial group centered around fintech and dedicated to integrating cutting-edge artificial intelligence technologies and other latest technologies into its enterprise DNA.
The diversified businesses of Eddid Financial range from retail to institutional and include but are not limited to fintech, internet finance, wealth management, asset management, investment banking, and virtual assets.
Eddid Financial is committed to providing one-stop financial services and products to customers through high-quality investment solutions.
Members of the Group hold a variety of licenses and memberships across key financial markets.
These include Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) regulated activities ("RA") licenses for types 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9; SEHK and HKCC participant (OTP-C broker number: 0974 and 0977), Insurance Broker Company license; Trust or Company Service Provider License in Hong Kong.
Additionally, our fully owned U.S.
broker-dealer subsidiary, Eddid Securities USA Inc., maintains approved membership with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), the National Futures Association (NFA), and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), and the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (NQX), and is a registered broker dealer with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in the United States.
There is a two-step procedure:
Complete the application form by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 9 May 2025 via the online application form .
Email your two-page CV to the Scholarships Office ( scholarships@soas.ac.uk ) by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 9 May 2025 .
Please ensure that you provide your SOAS student ID within the email.
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by March 2025, at the earliest.
For any enquiries regarding the bursary application procedure, please email scholarships@soas.ac.uk
MSc Economics at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/global-excellence-scholarship:
SOAS University of London is offering 30 Global Excellence Scholarships to students from selected countries with excellent academic performance applying for postgraduate-taught courses.
The Global Excellence Scholarships are designed to recognise and support applicants, of selected countries, who have achieved excellence across a variety of different platforms – ranging from academia to extra-curricular activities and volunteering.
Each scholarship is valued at £8,000 and acts as a fee waiver.
Please note, if you have applied for a 2-year Master’s, the scholarship will be eligible towards the first year of tuition fees.
Applicants can apply for the Global Excellence Scholarship via the online form .
Please save a copy of your application form for your records.
If you wish to print a copy of the application form please do so before clicking SUBMIT.
If you applied as part of the earlier rounds of the Global Excellence Scholarship and are not successful, you will automatically be considered for subsequent rounds of funding.
Please do not submit more than one scholarship application.
The deadline for the
Successful applicants with an offer to study at SOAS will be notified within 10 working days of each deadline.
If you are successful and allocated the Global Excellent Scholarship, you will be required to pay the CAS deposit of £4,000 as part of the conditions to accept the award.
Please note that the CAS deposit is only refundable in a limited set of circumstances .
It is important to be mindful of this if you are accepting the Global Excellence Scholarship with a conditional offer.
Find tailored information relating to your domicile status.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/language-scholarship:
Thanks to the generosity of alumni who believe in the importance of studying languages at SOAS, a fund has been created to support language scholarships at SOAS for master’s students who would like to incorporate this option into their studies.
The language options can be one of the following: Amharic, Bengali, Burmese, Hausa, Hebrew, Vietnamese, Zulu - all at 1A or 1B level.
Each award provides £3,000 towards Home status tuition fees or £4,000 towards International tuition fees for the 2025/26 academic year.
Each award is for one year of study only, but those on part-time courses may reapply in subsequent years.
There are up to 10 Language Scholarships available for 2025/26.
To apply for a master’s degree programme, please see Taught Masters applications .
You must apply for this scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 14 August 2025 via the online application form .
The scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is expected to be completed by the end of August at the earliest.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/saraswati-dalmia-scholarship:
Saraswati Dalmia (1915—2010) was a scholar and a poet and belonged to the generation of women of the 1930s who contributed to the struggle for independence in India.
While she continued to do social service, in her poems she also encouraged and supported women to action with great intuition and intelligence.
Her inspirational writing in Hindi evolved new forms in prose and poetry.
After her marriage to the industrialist R.K.
Dalmia she also established a trust for the promotion of research and writing.
In her evolution as a significant writer, at a time when women were not encouraged to enter the public domain, her life acts as a beacon for the struggle to survive against tremendous odds.
This scholarship has been established with a donation by her daughter Yashodhara Dalmia, an art historian and an independent curator based in New Delhi.
She has written widely on Indian art and her several publications include Amrita Sher-Gil – A Life (Penguin/Viking, 2006), which is a comprehensive account of the life of one of India’s first modern artists.
Her book The Making of Modern Indian Art: The Progressives (Oxford University Press, 2001), is regarded as the definitive account of a seminal phase of Indian art history.
There is one Saraswati Dalmia Scholarship available for 2025/26.
The scholarship provides a contribution towards fees of up to £10,355.
This scholarship is for one year only.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/sasakawa-studentships:
The Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation is pleased to announce the twelfth year of the Sasakawa Japanese Studies Postgraduate Studentship Programme, designed to support the development of the study of Japan in the UK.
Launched and administered by the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation and funded by The Nippon Foundation, the Programme is providing up to 30 postgraduate studentships annually across the UK, each worth £15,000.
SOAS can nominate up to three students for studentships of £15,000 (untaxed), which will be paid to awardees in three instalments: £5,000 at the start of Terms 1, 2 and 3.
Important information for MPhil/PhD candidates and for 2-year full-time taught master's candidates: This studentship is for one year only.
Award holders are be welcome to reapply in open competition for this studentship (subject to availability) in subsequent years.
This scholarship cannot be held with a fully-funded scholarship.
Otherwise, this studentship is not a full scholarship and may be used to supplement partial funding from elsewhere.
Additional Criteria For New Admissions (starting in September 2025/26):
Additional Criteria For Current Students:
Please note that this scholarship does not cover funding or even allow for Pre-sessionals.
Candidates will be assessed:
Applications are considered by an assessment committee and the tantosha are notified informally in May with formal confirmation in June.
There may be some changes in circumstances with nominations unable to take up places.
In that case the assessment committee will assess other candidates from across the field of applications.
For guidance to apply for:
If you are currently enrolled on a SOAS MPhil/PhD or on Year 1 of a 2-year full-time SOAS Master's in 2024/25, do not complete step 1.
You just need to complete steps 2 and 3
You must apply for this scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 12 March 2025 via the online Sasakawa Studentship application form.
In addition to the online scholarship application form, new and current students should send an up-to-date CV to scholarships@soas.ac.uk after completing the above steps.
One academic reference will also need to be submitted to the same email address.
The reference form will need to be completed by your nominated referee and sent by your referee to scholarships@soas.ac.uk by the scholarship deadline.
Please download the reference form here:
Word document, 25.39KB
Please note that if all the required steps are not completed, you will not be considered for the award.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/sfm-academic-excellence-marketing-scholarship:
In the 2025/26 academic year, the School of Finance and Management is offering five scholarships of £5,000 each.
This award will act as a fee waiver towards tuition fees.
Apply for your programme.
Further information about the MSc Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Strategy , including how to apply.
Apply for the scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 16 May 2025.
Submit your two-page CV by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 16 May 2025.
Please email your two-page CV to scholarships@soas.ac.uk and ensure that you provide your SOAS student ID within the email.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/soas-great-scholarships-turkey-indonesia-kenya-2025-entry:
GREAT Scholarships 2025, launched by the British Council's Study UK campaign together with a number of other UK universities, supports students from 18 countries to access world-class UK higher education opportunities.
The Study UK campaign is offering scholarships from 71 UK universities to students across 18 countries around the world.
It offers an exciting opportunity for students from these countries to get financial support to pursue postgraduate study in the UK.
The scholarship programme offers awards of a minimum of £10,000 to students pursuing 1-year postgraduate study in the UK.
The scholarship amount will be deducted from tuition fees.
SOAS University of London and the British Council
To be considered for an award, applicants must:
Awards will be based on a combination of academic merit, and the information given on the application form.
To apply for this scholarship, please complete our online application form by 11 May 2025.
This is separate from your course application.
Please note that you must already hold an offer to study at the University in order to be eligible for the scholarship.
For enquiries regarding your programme application procedure please email mastersadmissions@soas.ac.uk .
If you have questions or would like to find out more, please contact as222@soas.ac.uk .
If you are successful and allocated this scholarship, you will be required to pay the CAS deposit of £4,000 as part of the conditions to accept the award.
The CAS deposit is only refundable in a limited set of circumstances.
It is important to be mindful of this if you are accepting this scholarship with a conditional offer.
BA Africa and Black Diaspora and...
at SOAS University of London
Course fees for language centre courses, SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/soas-masters-scholarships:
The SOAS Masters Scholarships are designed to recognise applicants with outstanding academic achievements.
There are 30 scholarships available for 2025/26.
Each award covers £5,000 towards tuition fees.
For two-year courses, the award will be split across both academic years and provide £2,500 towards tuition fees in both 2025/26 and 2026/27.
Apply for the scholarship by 12:00pm (midday) UK local time on 21 March 2025.
Update (12/06/2025): Due to a large volume of applications, the scholarship shortlisting and awarding period is now expected to be completed by the end of June at the earliest.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/soas-masters-scholarships-international-2025:
The SOAS Master’s Scholarships (International) are designed to recognise and award overseas applicants with outstanding academic performance.
SOAS is offering 150 International Master’s Scholarships valued at £5,000 and £8,000 in the form of tuition fee waivers.
Applicants will automatically be considered for both amounts.
Please note, if you have applied for a 2-year Master's, the scholarship will be eligible towards the first year of tuition fees.
Applicants can apply for the International Scholarship via the online form .
You should save a copy of your application form for your records.
If you applied as part of the earlier rounds of the International Postgraduate Scholarship and are not successful, you will automatically be considered for subsequent rounds of funding.
This scholarship is now open for 2025/2026.
The deadline for the:
This means that for the third round of scholarships successful applicants will be notified by Friday 11 July 2025 .
If you are successful and allocated the International Postgraduate Scholarship, you will be required to pay the CAS deposit of £4,000 as part of the conditions to accept the award.
It is important to be mindful of this if you are accepting the International Postgraduate Scholarship with a conditional offer.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/sochon-foundation-scholarship:
* 90 credits (including 60 credit dissertation and 30 non-language credits) should be in Korea-related subjects.
** 75 credits (including 60 credit dissertation) should be in Korean art history.
*** 90 credits (including 60 credit dissertation and 30 non-language credits) should be in Korea-related subjects.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/tallow-chandlers-and-mw-beer-scholarship:
The Tallow Chandlers and M.W.
Beer have generously provided SOAS with a scholarship for students enrolled in an eligible Master’s degree programme.
The total budget available is a maximum of £15,000 for 2023-24.
The scholarship is for full-time or part-time students.
The Scholarship may be held in conjunction with other scholarships.
However, please be aware that all financial support secured before 31 January 2023 must be declared in your application.
Any awards held will be taken into consideration on assessment of financial need.
Any full-time or part-time Taught Masters programmes.
The Scholarship will be awarded to a student whose dissertation will research the oil and edible fats industries.
Examples include the environmental impact of palm oil, biodiesel and sustainability or the commodities trading of oils and fats.
Due to the competitive nature of the award only the successful candidates will be notified by June 2023.
If you have not heard from us by then, you should assume that your application was unsuccessful.
For guidance on postgraduate admission and information on what makes an application, please visit how to apply (PG).
You must apply for this scholarship by 23:59 (UK local time) on 28 February 2023 via the online application form .
For enquiries, please:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/tibawi-trust-award:
Dr Abdul-Latif Tibawi left a gift in his will to establish a trust for a postgraduate award to assist Palestinians undertaking a postgraduate course at SOAS.
There are two Tibawi Trust Awards of up to £1,300 each, which may be used towards conference visits or fieldwork in the UK or overseas.
To apply for the award, candidates must be:
In order to be considered for the scholarship, you must have completed the Tibawi Trust Award online application .
Along with the completed application form your supervisor will need to email the scholarships office with a statement answering the following:
The above questions will need to be completed by your supervisor and received by the scholarships team in order for your scholarship application to be complete .
They will need to email this to the scholarships office, scholarships@soas.ac.uk .
Please note: the scholarships team will need to have received your supervisor's statement of support within one month of your application form submission for you to be considered for this award.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-life/finance/scholarships/tibet-foundation-award:
Through the generous support of the Tibet Foundation (London), there are four scholarships available in 2025/26 for the study of Tibet at SOAS University of London.
The Tibet Foundation awards are to be offered to students studying a taught master’s degree featuring one or more modules engaging with the arts, history, language or religion of Tibet.
Each award provides £2,500 towards tuition fees.
Full-time (1-year) taught master’s degree in one of the following subjects:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/soas-careers:
At the SOAS Careers service we empower all SOAS students and graduates to make informed career decisions which will enable them to realise their potential and make a positive difference in the world.
We do this through data-driven research, the expertise of our staff, and collaborations with SOAS colleagues, alumni, employers, and other external organisations.
All full-time and part-time SOAS students, online learners, and SOAS graduates are welcome to access a range of our services.
We offer a consultancy service to academic colleagues and work in partnership with them to deliver bespoke careers education for each department annually.
Services offered include:
If you are looking for information on how to recruit a SOAS student, please see Our services to employers section.
Get access to jobs, internships and volunteering opportunities through our bespoke careers management system.
Please note: we may occasionally close for staff meetings or training.
Please do phone or check our social media if you are making a special journey to see us.
SOAS Careers actively seeks to support all students and tailor our services to their needs through our Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Strategic Plan.
If there is anything we can do to make your experience with us a more positive one, please let us know.
If you would like to disclose a specific learning difficulty (SPLD), disability, impairment, or medical issue in confidence to one of our staff, please contact us via email at careers@soas.ac.uk .
As an employer, facilitate an event with SOAS to attract and engage potential candidates and develop a talent pipeline.
Career advice for SOAS alumni.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/msc-global-development-work-placement-year:
Home: £12,220 (+£1,385 placement year fee) International: £25,320 (+£1,385 placement year fee)
We will consider all applications with 2:2 (or international equivalent) or higher.
Afghanistan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or 3.0
Albania: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): First Level Diploma (Diploma e nivelit te para) (3 Years) from a recognised institution
Algeria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licence; Diplome de [subject area]; Diplome d'Etudes Superieures; Diplome de Docteur end Pharmacie; or Diplome de Docteur en Medecine from a recognised institution
Antigua and Barbuda: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.7/4, B-, 60% or Lower Second Class Hons
Argentina: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Titulo/ Grado de Licenciado/ Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6/10 or Bueno
Information for prospective students from Argentina
Australia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 / Credit / 60%
Information for prospective students from Australia
Austria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.5/5.0 and overall Pass (Bestanden)
Azerbaijan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (Bakalavr Diplomu) from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or 3.5
Bahamas: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Bahrain: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 74% or 2.67
Information for prospective students from Bahrain
Bangladesh: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from a recognised institution OR 4 Year Bachelor's degree from SELECTED institutions
Equivalent to 2:ii: Masters: 55% or 2.7.
Bachelor: 60% or 3.0
Information for prospective students from Bangladesh
Belgium: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licentiaat (Flanders) or Licencié (Wallonia).
Post 2005 Bachelor/Bachelier 180 ECT degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 60% or 12/20 (Flanders); or 65% (Wallonia).
Bachelor: 60% or 12/20
Information for prospective students from Belgium
Bolivia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado or Título de [subject area] from a recognised institution.
Minimum of 4 year
Equivalent to 2:ii: 67%
Botswana: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (minimum 5 years) or Master Degree from the University of Botswana
Equivalent to 2:ii: C / 60% / 2:2
Brazil: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Título de Bacharel / Título de [subject area] / Título de Licenciado/a (4 years) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6.5 or 65%
Information for prospective students from Brazil
Brunei: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (Honours) from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class Hons; 50% / 3.5 out of 5.0
Information for prospective students from Brunei
Bulgaria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 4.0/6.0
Information for prospective students from Bulgaria
Burkina Faso: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplome d'Etudes Approfondies.
Diplome d'Etudes Superieures Specialisees
Burma / Myanmar: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: B- or 55% or 3.0/5.0 or 2.5/4.0
Cambodia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from recognised institution
Cameroon: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplôme d'Ingénieur/ Diplôme d'Études Supérieures de Commerce (5 years) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 12 (assez bien) or 2.5.
70-74/ B+
Canada: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Canada
Chile: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Grado de Licenciado en [subject area] or Titulo (Professional) de [subject area] (min 4 years) from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 5.0/7
China Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4 years) 学士学位 from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70-75% or 2.5-2.9/4.0 (depending on university)
Colombia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado en [subject area] or Titulo de [subject area] (minimum 4 years) from recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Colombia
Croatia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Baccalaureus / Baccalaurea (Bachelor's degree) from a recognised institution
Cuba: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Titulo de Licenciado/ Arquitecto/ Doctor/ Ingeniero from a recognised institution
Cyprus: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Czech Republic: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (180 ECTS) from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from the Czech Republic
Denmark: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from the Denmark
Dominica: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Dominican Republic: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Título de Licenciado/Título de [subject] upon completion of 4-year Licenciatura
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65% or 6.5/10
Ecuador: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from recognised university
Egypt: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from recognised university
Information for prospective students from Egypt
Estonia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bakalaurusekraad from a recognised institution; University Specialist's Diploma; Professional Higher Education Diploma
Ethiopia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from recognised public or HERQA-accredited private institution
Fiji: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4 years) from the University of the South Pacific
Equivalent to 2:ii: B/3.0
Finland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor/Kandidaatti/Kandidat (180 ECTS credits) from a recognised institution
France: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Grade de Licence from a recognised institution OR three years of study from a grande école
Information for prospective students from France
Gambia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): 2-year Master's degree from recognised university
Georgia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (Bakalavris Khariskhi) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 71%/C/ Good
Germany: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (180 ECTS) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Befriedigend: 2.6-3.5/5.0
Information for prospective students from Germany
Ghana: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class Hons
Information for prospective students from Ghana
Greece: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Greece
Grenada: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Haiti: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Hong Kong: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Hong Kong
Hungary: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (Alapfokozat) or Diploma (Egyetemi Oklevél) from a recognised institution
Iceland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (Baccalaureus or Bakkalarprof) from a recognised institution
India: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (3 or 4 years) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Top unis: 55%, or 5.5/10.
All other: 60%, or 6.0/10; or 5.0/8.0
Information for prospective students from India
Indonesia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree or Sarjana I (S1) from a recognised institution
Iran: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licence/ Karshenasi (4-year Bachelor) from a recognised institution
Iraq: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4-year) from a recognised institution
Ireland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Israel: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Israel
Italy: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Laurea (180 ECTS) from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Italy
Jamaica: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Japan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): 学士 (Bachelor's degree) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70-75% / Good/ B or 2.7/ 4.0
Information for prospective students from Japan
Jordan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.5/4.0 or 70%
Information for prospective students from Jordan
Kazakhstan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's (Bakalavr Diplomi) or Specialist Diploma from recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Kazakhstan
Kenya: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Kenya
Kuwait: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree or specialist diploma (min 4 years) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.5/5.0 or 2.67/4.0
Latvia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bakalaura Diploms (Bachelor's) or Profesionālā Bakalaura Diploms (Professional Bachelor's) from a recognised institution
Lebanon: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree / Licence from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Lebanon
Liberia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from a recognised institution
Libya: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from selected institution
Lithuania: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors/Bakalauro (180 ECTS) from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Lithuania
Luxembourg: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Macedonia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Malawi: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from a recognised institution
Malaysia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Malaysia
Maldives: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the Maldives National University (MNU)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 50%
Malta: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree from a recognised institution
Mexico: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Titulo de Licenciado from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Mexico
Morocco: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licence/Licence d'Etudes Fondamentales/Licence Professionnelle from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Morocco
Namibia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Nepal: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree / Bachelor's (4-year) from select institutions
Information for prospective students from Nepal
Netherlands: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from the Netherlands
New Zealand: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (3 or 4 years) from a recognised institution
Nigeria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Nigeria
Norway: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors/Bachelorgrad (180 ECTS) or Candidatus/a magisterii from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Norway
Oman: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Oman
Pakistan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4-year) from HEC recognised institution or 2 year BA + 2 year MA from HEC recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Pakistan
Palestine: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (4-year) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 75% or or 2.7/4.0
Papua New Guinea: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's (Honours) degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Class II Division B
Peru: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado or Professional Title from a recognised institution
Philippines: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master’s from recognised institution or Centre of Excellence; or Bachelor's from prestigious institution or Centre of Excellence.
Poland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licencjat or Inżynier from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Poland
Portugal: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado (180 ECTS) from a recognised institution
Qatar: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.7/4.0 or 3.3/5.0
Information for prospective students from Qatar
Romania: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplomă de Licenţă/Diplomă de Inginer/Diplomă de Urbanist Diplomat from a recognised university
Information for prospective students from Romania
Russia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplom Bakalavra or Specialist Diploma from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Russia
Rwanda: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4-year) from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class Hons; 60%; or 13/20
Saudi Arabia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.5/5.0 or 2.7/4.0 or 70%
Information for prospective students from Saudi Arabia
Serbia and Montenegro: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Sierra Leone: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's Honours degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class Hons; 55%; 3.4/5.0; 2.75/4.0
Singapore: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Singapore
Slovakia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (Bakalár) from a recognised institution
Slovenia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diploma o pridobljeni univerzitetni izobrazbi (University Degree) or Diploma o pridobljeni visoki strokovni izobrazbi / Diplomirani (Diploma of Professional Higher Education) or Diplomant or Univerzitetni diplomant (first degree)
Solomon Islands: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4-year) from the University of the South Pacific
Somalia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Do not accept national qualifications for direct entry
South Africa: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4-year) from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from South Africa
South Korea: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from South Korea
Spain: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Título de Grado / Título de Licenciado / Título de Ingeniero / Titulo de Arquitecto from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Spain
Sri Lanka: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor Special Degree or Professional Degree (4-year) from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Sri Lanka
St Kitts and Nevis: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
St Vincent and thr Grenadines: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Sudan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (5-year) from a recognised institution
Sweden: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's Degree/Kandidatexamen/Yrkesexamen from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Pass OR Godkänd (with a minimum of 90 credits at Good - C)
Information for prospective students from Sweden
Switzerland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplom/Diplôme;Lizentiat;Staatsdiplom/Diplôme d’Etat from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Switzerland
Syria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (Licence/ al-ijaza-fi) from a recognised institution
Taiwan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Taiwan
Tanzania: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Thailand: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.6/4.0
Information for prospective students from Thailand
Trinidad and Tobago: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's Degree from UWI
Equivalent to 2:ii: B-, 60% or 2.5; or Lower Second Class Hons
Tunisia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplôme National d'Ingénieur/ Diplôme National d'Architecture/ Docteur en Médecine / Vétérinaire/ Licence/ Maîtrise from recognised institution
Turkey: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Lisans Diplomasi from a recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Top Unis: 2.5/4.0.
All others: 2.8/4.0
Information for prospective students from Turkey
Uganda: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Uganda
Ukraine: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree or specialist diploma from a recognised institution
United Arab Emirates: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from the United Arab Emirates
United States of America: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from the USA
Vietnam: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (4-year) from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Vietnam
Yemen: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from a recognised institution
Zambia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree from a recognised institution
Zimbabwe: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree (3 or 4 years) from a recognised institution
Information for prospective students from Zimbabwe
In addition to degree classification we take into account other elements of the application such as supporting statement.
References are optional, but can help build a stronger application if you fall below the 2:2 requirement or have non-traditional qualifications.
See international entry requirements and English language requirements .
The MSc Global Development with Work Placement Year programme provides a solid interdisciplinary social science formation in development theory and practice and develops students’ capacities for independent and critical analysis.
Development Studies is a dynamic field concerned with processes of change in the South — social and economic, political and cultural — and the major policy challenges they present to efforts to overcome poverty and insecurity.
For your placement year , you will have the opportunity to take part in a full-time, 10–12 month work placement at an organisation of your choice.
Please note: you will be expected to secure the work placement yourself, to be approved by the academic department.
The MSc Global Development programme attracts applications from students with a variety of academic and experiential backgrounds.
We welcome applications from those who have worked in a broad field of development, but also from students without relevant work experience who can demonstrate a strong interest in, and understanding of, development issues.
A good first degree in a social science is preferred.
Students must take 180 credits per year comprised of 120 taught credits (including core, compulsory and optional modules) and a 60 credit dissertation.
Completion of the placement year comes with an optional additional 60 credits (on top of the 180 mandatory credits that need to be completed for the MSc Global Development degree).
Open modules: Students can choose up to 30 credits from other Departments as open options.
All students enrol in the dissertation module.
The dissertation module, which is taken by all Master’s students, provides them with the opportunity to identify, develop and produce a research based dissertation related to the thematic area of their programme of study.
As well as receiving guidance from an academic supervisor, students will also benefit from regular dissertation meetings across the year in which they will receive teaching in the theory and practise of dissertation preparation.
Theory, Policy and Practice of Development brings a rigorous and critical understanding of development that engages directly with both mainstream and radical approaches.
The module analyses the birth of the idea of development, its relation to colonialism and racial capitalism and maps the evolution of development paradigms, their governance, effects, and impact on specific sectoral debates and contemporary issues.
The learning process is divided into four main learning blocks: historical evolution of development; the rise and fall of developmentalism; challenges to development; and sectoral approaches ranging from agriculture, informality to migration and the environment.
This course examines the political economy of development processes and the specific development policies and strategies undertaken in different regions and countries of the world.
The syllabus is designed to provide insights on the historical evolution of development debates, and an overview of the elements of theory and policy that are especially relevant to the study and practice of development.
The first term lectures cover some key foundational theoretical and analytical content of the political economy of development.
They illustrate different interpretations of political economy, and they critically examine the basis of paradigm shifts in development policy making.
Term Two lectures focus upon a range of specific topics fiercely debated in development policy circles, such as education and health, taxation, finance climate change,, poverty, labour markets, agriculture and rand ural livelihoods, trade and global production networks.
In addition to the above, the following is selected:
All MSc students in Development Studies are eligible to attend the one-term, non-assessed module Economics for Beginners, which introduces students to basic concepts in microeconomics, macroeconomics, development economics, and statistics and econometrics.
This course focuses attention to social movements in relation to civil society and to the development project itself.
It examines some current positions on theorising 'civil society' and 'new social movements'.
The module will familiarise students with the role gender plays in global development and with the history of gender and development.
It will train students to centre gender in the analysis of development processes and interventions.
Sessions in the module address issues of coloniality, sexuality, race, economic dependence and debt, violence, peace and security, food-systems and the ecology.
They explore their relation to intersectional inequality as well to gender and intersectional justice.
This module provides an introduction to development practice.
It examines some of the key challenges and constraints faced by development practitioners in the light of trends in development theory and policy, as well as some of the tools and frameworks commonly used in the world of development practice.
The module will offer an overview of the main research designs and techniques used in development research.
It will put emphasis on both the use of secondary sources (text, numbers, images, audio, etc.) and the process of collecting primary empirical material for analysis.
This course aims to provide a critical, historically informed and empirically grounded perspective on war to peace transitions.
It looks at the historical experience of countries emerging from war as well as contemporary examples.
It explores the continuities between war and peace, as well as the moments of rupture, and asks how an appreciation of these continuities and transformations can inform policies and strategies in countries emerging from conflict.
It also examines through case study material how liberal peacebuilding is ‘translated’ on the ground as it gets implemented (and resisted) through multiple, state, non state and private actors.
This module aims at providing a basic knowledge of the main predicaments facing development in the Middle East and North Africa region (MENA, encompassing all members of the League of Arab States, with Iran and Turkey for comparative purposes).
It follows the sequence of historical development: an assessment of the key features of pre-industrial society in the area and of the impact of European imperial domination sets the scene for contrasting responses to the challenge of modernity in the 20th century.
The major ideological undercurrents produced by this confrontation are examined: adaptation to vs.
rejection of ‘Western’ modernity within Islam; the rise of populist nationalism and the ‘socialist’ radicalisation of ‘developmentalist’ regimes.
Against the background of the ‘oil shocks’, MENA experienced economic liberalisation, with limited political liberalisation occasionally.
The post-Cold War U.S.
war drive turned the region into the central arena of the so-called ‘clash of civilisations’.
The region’s overall anaemic long-term growth performance—except Turkey—points to massive structural problems that constitute the main factors in the Arab uprising that unfolded in 2011.
The dynamics of this ongoing regional upheaval will be thoroughly examined.
This course examines global supply chain capitalism and maps its implications for development, with emphasis on the realms of work, gender, poverty, mobility, social reproduction, and labour standards.
The course examines the structure of different ‘global commodity chains’ (GCCs), ‘global value chains’ (GVCs) and/or ‘global production networks’ (GPNs), including those organising labour-intensive manufacturing like sweatshops, agro-food production like coffee, or the digital/platform economy.
It highlights linkages between the current structure of global production and that characterising the colonial/imperial era.
It explores debates on labour informalisation and feminisation; examines the global reorganisation of social reproduction at work in global chains; explains the relevance of labour mobility and forced labour; and analyses global labour standards and ‘modern slavery’ debates, mapping links between Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and the new ‘abolitionist industrial complex’.
The aim of this module is to enable students to understand and evaluate major policy debates on the role of agriculture in development.
To do so, the course will consider in some depth the relevant theoretical and empirical literature on: the necessary for structural change in agriculture-dependant societies; the operation of agricultural factor and commodity markets, including international markets; the nature of rural societies and the characterisation of farmers; the nature of food markets and the role of agriculture in improving welfare.
Both mainstream and heterodox approaches will be investigated.
This team-taught module aims to provide an understanding of how aid and aid institutions have impacted on developmental prospects and practice.
It explores the role, purpose, and complexities of aid in development through an examination of what forms ‘aid’ takes, and how this contributes to development; the role of specific types of organisations involved in delivering aid; the contexts in which aid is distributed; and the complexities and challenges involved.
Thematically, the course covers: firstly an exploration of key ideas and themes in aid and development; secondly, an examination of aid at differing organisational levels; and thirdly, an exploration of aid delivery and practice in specific contexts.
It will draw on experiences from a variety of contexts to provide a grounding in how aid and development are linked, and how ‘aid organisations’ function.
In this module we explore a wide range of policy processes around the world that shape the dynamics and impacts of international migration.
The module provides students with the opportunity to engage critically with the complex configurations of institutions, politics and normative claims that underpin migration-related policy (with an emphasis on contemporary policy developments, although these are situated in an historical perspective).
It also challenges students to explore alternative policy approaches.
In particular, we consider debates and initiatives relating to international labour migration and migrants’ rights; education, skills and mobility; various forms of economic and political transnationalism; and refugee movements.
Students investigate the positions taken by a variety of stakeholders, from migrant associations, NGOs, employers and trade unions, to emigration states, destination states, regional bodies and international organisations.
In this module, we are aiming for a participatory and intellectually stimulating learning experience.
The module engages with theories and approaches that are applied in the study of the working poor in the Global South - and to a lesser extent the Global North - and their collective agency and activism through labour movements, social movements and struggles grounded in both productive and reproductive sites of contention.
We begin with an exploration of the main approaches to labour and development in an historical context.
We then move on to analyse how neoliberalism and globalisation have incorporated the labouring classes of the South through processes such as informalisation and feminisation of work.
The module homes in on the strategies and campaigns of trade unions, labour organisations, social movements and environmental campaigns.
This module examines ‘water justice’ in the global South from a combined Development Studies and Law perspective.
It explores the themes of water rights / right to water, the modalities of access to water, and social movements on water issues.
This module examines ‘water and development’ in the global South from a combined Development Studies and Law perspective.
The three main themes in the course are the commodification/marketisation of water, the political ecology of water, and global water governance and conflict.
This module explores global health in relation to global development.
It considers the links between health, illness and poverty; the ways in which poverty, insecurity and inequalities create particular risks and challenges for individuals and communities; the challenges of responding to health crises and issues; and how global health fits within global development discourses, debates and issues.
It does so through a focus on three areas.
(1) The place of global health within global development, and key social factors impacting on health.
(2) Health systems for global health and development.
(3) Key issues in global heath.
The International Development Placement Module delivers a virtual placement with an organisation working on aspects of development.
The core activity is centred on students working in groups with development-orientated partner organisations (POs).
Each student will enter into a Placement Agreement with a partner organisation consisting of 40 hours of work spread over February and March in term 2.
Students will be allocated to Partner Organisations in teams varying in size from 2-9 students.
The growth of cities is a key features of our times.
Today more than half of the world population lives in cities, and developing countries have sustained decades of rapid urbanisation.
This module will explore the key academic debates on the relationship between cities and development; the key factors driving the growth of cities in developing countries, from colonial times to the present and its implications for development.
The module, taught through a weekly 1 hour lecture and 1 hour tutorialin term 1, will expose students to a number of theoretical approaches to the “urban” in developing countries, including political economy and postcolonial narratives.
Such theoretical debates will be used to make sense of a range of urban themes/sectors such as housing, crime, informal employment, transport, digital technology and migration.
This course explores feminist and gendered approaches to the study of global political economy.
First, the course explores feminist contributions to the study of the world economy and its intersecting inequalities, including during COVID-19 times, and illustrates feminist analyses of the global assembly line.
Second, it introduces social reproduction theorizations and illustrates processes of commodification of social reproduction under neoliberalism, by examining the rise and features of global care and reproductive chains.
Third, the course explores links between accumulation, gender, and race, by introducing gendered approaches to racial capitalism, coloniality, and indigeneity.
It analyses feminist intersectional, anti-racist and decolonial political movements including BLM; and introduces debates on abolition feminism and reproductive justice.
Finally, the course illustrates gendered approaches to agrarian change, food, and the ecology.
This module questions and investigates the way that forced migration takes place, is represented and is responded to at the international and national level.
It uses multidisciplinary approaches, drawing on anthropological, legal, sociological and developmental perspectives to interrogate the causes and consequences of forced migration, the labelling and control of forced migrant populations, the international legal and policy frameworks that contextualize protection and other responses to them.
Drawing particularly on examples from sub–Saharan Africa, it asks what options are open to displaced people in the context of political, humanitarian and developmental responses to them.
Whether we think about migration, development, geopolitics, or citizenship, all questions of our time seem to revolve around the conceptualisation, functions and effects of borders and bordering processes.
Borders are central to processes of social change, and the course identifies different approaches to studying borders’ significance in such processes.
Borders have also become a key site of policy and political intervention, and the course explores border management practices related to fostering, preventing or channelling the circulation of commodities and people.
Finally, the course reflects on the relation between borders, border management and inequalities.
Borders are gendered, racialised and power laden.
Yet, they are also sites of agency, resistance and subversion.
Borders are privileged sites of analytical enquiry, as they render concrete and reproduce selective opportunities, inequalities and contestations.
Students can take a maximum of 30 credits from the School-wide open options list, including languages.
Our teaching and learning approach is designed to support and encourage students in their own process of self-learning, and to develop their own ideas, responses and critique of international development practice and policy.
We do this through a mixture of lectures, and more student-centred learning approaches (including tutorials and seminars).
Teaching combines innovative use of audio-visual materials, practical exercises, group discussions, and weekly guided reading and discussions, as well as conventional lecturing.
In addition to the taught part of the masters programme, all students will write a 10,000 word dissertation.
Students develop their research topic under the guidance and supervision of an academic member of the Department.
Students are encouraged to explore a particular body of theory or an academic debate relevant to their programme through a focus on a particular region.
All Masters programmes consist of 180 credits, made up of taught modules of 30 or 15 credits, taught over 10 or 20 weeks, and a dissertation of 60 credits.
The programme structure shows which modules are compulsory and which optional.
As a rough guide, 1 credit equals approximately 10 hours of work.
Most of this will be independent study, including reading and research, preparing coursework, revising for examinations and so on.
It will also include class time, which may include lectures, seminars and other classes.
Some subjects, such as learning a language, have more class time than others.
At SOAS, most postgraduate modules have a one hour lecture and a one hour seminar every week, but this does vary.
SOAS Library is one of the world's most important academic libraries for the study of Africa, Asia and the Middle East, attracting scholars from all over the world.
The Library houses over 1.2 million volumes, together with significant archival holdings, special collections and a growing network of electronic resources.
If you would like some preparatory reading (although this is not necessary), a good starting point is to keep an eye out for the many development related blogs by academics, activists and institutions.
In addition, good book options include:
A degree from the Department of Development Studies at SOAS will further develop your understanding of the world and how society is organised, with specific focus on violence and conflict, the role of aid, refugees and forced migration.
Graduates leave with a range of transferable skills, including critical thinking, analytical skills and cultural awareness.
Recent graduates have been hired by:
Find out about our Careers Service.
East Asia, labour relations in China and Vietnam, trade union reform in China and Vietnam, labour and social movements in China, labour migration in China.
Border studies & border thinking, Migration governance and migration “crisis”, Refugee regime, Infrastructure, Postcolonial and feminist geographies, Time and temporalities.
What happens when public austerity meets private debt?
In South Africa, women carry the cost - in cash, care, and credit.
The BBC recently removed its documentary Gaza: How to Survive a War Zone from iPlayer, apologising for “serious flaws” in its production.
The past 16 months in Gaza have exposed not only the brutal reality of Palestinian suffering but also the moral failure of those watching.
In their new research initiative, The Centrality of the Margins, Xu Peng, Jonathan Goodhand, Patrick Meehan and Naomi Yonder ask what explains the concentration and resilience of scam compounds in these remote, war-affected regions.
This programme built on the 2019 Workshop ‘Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Research on Peace and Security: Publishing and Grant Writing Workshop for Early Career Researchers in Eastern Africa’.
Developing a shared and participatory global strategy for identifying and supporting migration research.
Collating and producing evidence and policy relevant knowledge to generate a better understanding of the drivers of instability, migration, and displacement in the greater Horn of Africa, and the dynamics of cross-border economies and centre/periphery relations.
A SOAS-led consortium researching into the role of illicit drug economies in conflict-affected borderlands of Afghanistan, Colombia and Myanmar.
Studying comparatively the impact of large-scale labour out-migration on agricultural and rural change in seven countries (Morocco, Ethiopia, Moldova, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, Thailand, PR China) to inform regionally specific combinations of rural development and migration policies.
Exploring evidence on the employment effects of firms investing in manufacturing and building infrastructure in African economies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/msc-economic-policy-placement-year:
Rwanda: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor (4-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class Honours or 65-69% or 14/20
Saudi Arabia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0 or overall 70%
Singapore: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: CAP 3.5/5.0 or 3.0/4.0
Slovakia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bakalár / Bachelor
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or 2.0 overall or C
South Africa: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor (4-year)
South Korea: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 2.7/4.0 or 3.0/4.3 or 3.3/4.5
Spain: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Título de Grado / Título de Licenciado / Título de Ingeniero / Titulo de Arquitecto
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6.5/10 or GPA 1.75/4.0
Sri Lanka: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor Special Degree or Professional Degree (4-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 55% or 2:2 or GPA 3.0/4.0
Sudan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor (5-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65%+ or B
Sweden: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree / Kandidatexamen / Yrkesexamen
Equivalent to 2:ii: B (90 credits) and C (90 credits) or Very Good (70 credits) and Good (110 Credits) or C (180 credits)
Switzerland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplom / Diplôme / Lizentiat / Staatsdiplom / Diplôme d’Etat
Equivalent to 2:ii: Overall 4.5/6 or 7/10 or 2.5/5
Syria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licence / al-ijaza-fi / Bachelor
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70%+ or 'Good'
Taiwan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 68-70% or GPA 2.8/4.0-3.0/4.0
Thailand: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 3.0/4.0
Tunisia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplôme National d'Ingénieur / Diplôme National d'Architecture / Licence / Maîtrise
Equivalent to 2:ii: 12 out of 20
Turkey: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Lisans Diplomasi
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 2.6/4 from the top universities and 3.0/4 from all others
Uganda: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 (Lower Second) or B or GPA 3.0/5.0
Ukraine: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree or Specialist Diploma
Equivalent to 2:ii: 8/12 or 3.8/5
United Arab Emirates: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 3.0/4.0 or 3.2/5.0
United States of America: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Vietnam: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (4-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: Overall score of 6.5/10
Yemen: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: Overall 'Good' (71-77%) or Aden University 80-83% (or 3.0/4.0)
Zambia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 65% or B or Credit or GPA 1.7/2.5 or 3.3/5.0
Zimbabwe: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 or 65%
Afghanistan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 80% or 3.3/4.0
Argentina: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Titulo / Grado de Licenciado
Australia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 or Credit or 65%
Austria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.5/5.0 and overall Pass (Bestanden)
Bahrain: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 75% or GPA 3.0/4.0
Bangladesh: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor’s from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology or Master's degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 60% or GPA 3.0/4.0
Belgium: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licentiaat or Licencié
Equivalent to 2:ii: 13/20 or 65%
Botswana: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (5-year) or Master's from University of Botswana
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 3.5/5.0 or 65% or B- or Good
Brazil: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Título de Bacharel / Título de Licenciado (4-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7/10 or 70%
Brunei: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class Honours with 50% overall
Bulgaria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 4.3/6
Cameroon: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplôme d'Ingénieur/ Diplôme d'Études Supérieures de Commerce (5-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 12-13 assez bien (fair); 70-74; or B+
Canada: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 3.0/4.0 or 74-77% or overall B
China Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (4-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 73% or 2.6/4.0 (C9 unis) 75% or 2.8/4.0 (Double First unis) 80% or 3.25/4.0 (all other unis)
Colombia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado / Titulo (4-year)
Croatia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Baccalaureus / Baccalaurea (Bachelor degree)
Equivalent to 2:ii: Overall score 3/5
Cyprus: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6.5/10
Czech Republic: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (180 ECTS)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 1.75/4.0 or High C 'dobre’ (good)
Denmark: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7/12 or 8/13 or grade C
Egypt: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or 3.0/4.0
Estonia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bakalaurusekraad / University Specialist's Diploma / Professional Higher Education Diploma
Equivalent to 2:ii: 4.0/5.0
Finland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor / Kandidaatti / Kandidat (180 ECTS credits)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3/5 or 2/3
France: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licence or Diplôme from a grande école
Equivalent to 2:ii: 11.5 out 20
Gambia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree (2-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 3.0/4.3 or 64% or B
Germany: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (180 ECTS)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2.6/5
Ghana: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 (Second Class Lower Division) or GPA 3.25/5.0 or 60%
Greece: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6.50/10
Hong Kong: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: Upper second class or GPA 2.7/4.0 or 75% or B Minus
Hungary: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor (Alapfokozat) or Diploma (Egyetemi Oklevél)
Iceland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (Baccalaureus or Bakkalarprof)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 7.0 out of 10
India: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: CGPA: 55-60% or 5.5/10 - 6.0/10
Iraq: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (Licence/Karshani)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 0.7
Israel: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or C+
Italy: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Laurea (180 ECTS)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 100/110
Japan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or C+ or 3.0
Jordan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.0/4.0 or 70%
Kazakhstan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors (Bakalavr Diplomi) or Specialist Diploma
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 3.0/4.0 or GPA 4.0/5.0 or B
Kenya: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 2:2 or 60%
Palestine (State of): Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree (4-year) from a recognised institution
Saint Kitts and Nevis: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from the University of the West Indies
Trinidad and Tobago: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplôme National d'Ingénieur/ Diplôme National d'Architecture/ Docteur en Médecine / Vétérinaire/ Licence/ Maîtrise from recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: Top Unis: 2.5/4.0 All others: 2.8/4.0
UAE: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
USA: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution
See international entry requirements and English language requirements
The MSc Economic Policy with Work Placement Year programme offers training in the understanding and critical evaluation of economic policy issues, design and solutions, their foundation in the evolution of economic theory and methods, as well as critical discussion of the application of policy design to real-world problems without requiring a first degree in Economics for enrolment.
It offers distinct core modules that enables you to engage with debates in economic theory and policy in advanced as well as developing regions.
It also provides a programme structure that develop qualitative and quantitative research capabilities.
Students on this programme can apply for a dissertation co-supervised with key international organisations, such as the International Trade Centre (ITC), the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the World Bank.
Masters programmes (with the exception of 2-year full-time MSc) consist of 180 credits, made up of taught modules of 30 or 15 credits, taught over 10 or 20 weeks, and a dissertation of 60 credits.
Completion of the placement year comes with an optional additional 60 credits (on top of the 180 mandatory credits that need to be completed for the MSc Economic Policy degree).
Most of this will be independent study such as reading and research, preparing coursework, revising for examinations and so on.
Also included is class time, for example lectures, seminars and other classes.
Some subjects may have more class time than others – a typical example of this are language acquisition modules.
At SOAS, most postgraduate modules have a one-hour lecture and a one-hour seminar every week, but this does vary.
This module aims to acquaint you with various issues bearing on research in the social sciences in general, and economics and political economy, in particular.
It introduces a range of approaches to research and seeks to help you understand the strengths and weaknesses of different methodological approaches.
The objective of the module is to equip you with the basic tools to undertake independent research and rigorously evaluate different research methods.
This course is designed to familiarize students with core policy and reform debates on current global economic governance, with emphasis on the following areas: international monetary and financial integration, international production, international trade and international competitiveness, and the role of labour in the global economy.
This is a series of seminars offered to our various MSc programmes to those students identified as needing extra support in mathematics and statistics.
It is not assessed and aims at providing the necessary basic knowledge for the core quantitative modules.
This is a session on essay writing for postgraduate students.
It is meant to provide guidance for essay assignments, in the form of both readings, organising, strucutring and writing essay-based coursework, specifically for Economics modules.
It is aimed to Postgraduate students as they come from different educational backgrounds and as means of providing them with a set of guidelines for essay writing.
This core module will be an introduction to concepts in probability theory and statistics and will not have specific adacemic requirements.
The purpose of the module is to enable students to take on Statistical Research Techniques in term 2.
In addition, it provides the basic knowledge required to study articles engaging in quantitative analysis.
This module seeks to provide foundations of economic theory across micro and macro for students without any prior disciplinary knowledge.
The course will introduce the most relevant economic theories across micro and macro to enable students to navigate broader economic policy debates that often draw on a set of analytical propositions across micro and macro.
Minimum of 45 credits to be selected from List A
This module consists of a survey of key approaches and issues in the political economy of growth and development.
The aim is to familiarise students with foundational and contemporary debates on growth and development theory and policy and to develop the analytical ability of students to engage with real-world growth and development questions.
The objective of this module is twofold: to provide an analytical training in the critical use of theories of international finance and to provide an opportunity for students to develop critical understanding of current policy debates on regional integration and globalisation, management of open developing economies with large external shocks, dynamics of currency and financial crises, management of exchange rates and capital accounts, international monetary and financial architecture, and other global economic issues.
Throughout the course, emphasis is placed on understanding theories as well as on evaluating these theoretical propositions in the light of empirical evidence and real world issues.
This course introduces students to the economics of institutions and the role of political economy in understanding institutional performance in developing countries.
This covers the growing interest and literature on governance, on the role of corruption and rent-seeking, the transition to capitalism and the institutions appropriate to that transition, the role of property rights and property right stability during this transition, the role of the state and of different strategies of catching up, the role of democracy and of authoritarianism in economic transitions.
This course provides an introduction to the post-1950 evolution of the main economies of the Asia-Pacific region (comprising Northeast and Southeast Asia).
It looks at macroeconomic issues, with a particular focus on growth, trade and investment flows, and fluctuations in economic indicators since the middle of the 1990s.
The objective of this course is to develop students’ understanding of the main economic relationships that arise between the financial sector and the ‘real economy’ in the course of economic development.
Evaluation Methods for Economic Policy aims to equip students with a deep understanding of the theoretical concepts underlying policy evaluation and the practical skills needed to evaluate economic policies.
Students will learn various advanced quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods approaches, examining their strengths and limitations in terms of internal and external validity.
The module emphasizes practical applications using open-source computer software such as R and RQDA, based on real-world economic policy issues and case studies from the Global South and Global North.
The module covers concepts and techniques for analysing time-series data and designing dynamic models, e.g.
stationarity versus nonstationarity, cointegration, exogeneity and simultaneity, model encompassing.
It is applied-modelling oriented and mathematical proofs and derivations are kept to a minimum.
This module provides students with practical experience in modelling economic relationships, and enhances their competence in critically evaluating research results, and carrying out good quality empirical work.
The final coursework is an embodiment of these training goals.
This course introduces students to economic perspectives on environmental and development issues.
It covers various macro and microeconomic issues as well as economics of climate change.
This module provides students with a thorough treatment of advanced microeconomic theories and related applied policy debates.
This course examines contending approaches to microeconomic theories and their applications focusing on the issues including, but not limited to, consumer behaviour, networks, business cycles, role of the state and micro-foundations of macroeconomic models.
Multiple analytical techniques -mathematical, descriptive, graphical, narrative, and historical- will be employed to explain the nature and scope of microeconomic problems and their policy implications.
Students are expected to understand and critically examine theoretical frameworks and arguments so that they can develop analytical skills to deal with real world applied problems.
Using a political economy and pluralist perspective, the module builds on and expands the Macroeconomics module of Term 1.
It provides a critical overview and in-depth analysis of macroeconomic theories and methods, focusing on a variety of issues that are at the centre of the contemporary debates on macroeconomic policies.
These include mainstream and heterodox macroeconomic modelling approaches, shadow banking and financialisation, distribution and growth, the macroeconomics of climate change, fiscal and monetary policies for climate mitigation, financial globalisation, crises and the role of gender in macroeconomics.
This course looks at the interaction between China's economic transformation and world development since the late 1970s until the present time.
The emphasis is on critically analyzing and assessing this interaction from alternative historical and theoretical perspectives.
The module introduces students to the topic of green finance and its potential contribution to a sustainable economy in the context of climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Specifically, the module supports students in understanding how climate and other environmental risks create potential financial risks in banking and capital markets and analyses the role of financial actors in driving and potentially mitigating these risks.
The business world has traditionally relied on accounting and finance practitioners to provide a summary of business performance in form of financial statements at regular intervals.
Also, quantitative business intelligence has traditional being an important field in accounting and finance.
While these two roles continue to be important, there is marked change in their nature, frequency, and potentials given the exponential growth in unstructured data.
Consistent with Moore's Law, there's also an exponential increase in computing power.
The current business environment, therefore, requires managers to know data analysis and programming to make sense of the huge volume of data.
The module, therefore, complements other modules on the programme, such as financial accounting and financial statement analysis, management accounting, and applied econometrics.
Up to 15 credits to be selected from List B
This course aims to develop an understanding of key issues in international business and management within a rapidly changing business environment.
It focuses on the structure and behaviour of large multinational companies and small international entrepreneurial firms.
This course expects to build up the knowledge and skills in international management field, which will contribute to the knowledge learning for related courses.
We live in an era of frequent and sometimes radical change in what governments do and how they are organised to do it.
Sometimes the changes are generated within countries as responses to social, political and economic developments and sometimes they originate outside the country.
The purpose of this course is to provide an analytical framework for understanding public policy and management in a variety of historical and comparative contexts.
It will give you the means to make your own judgements about appropriate ways to make public policy and organise and deliver public services.
The contents of the course include attention to different kinds of governments and rationales for intervention of the state in the economy and society, the process of policy-making, policy implementation and policy evaluation, the various forms in which public services can be organised and the principles and tools for aligning the behaviour of individuals to the pursue of public interest, decentralisation and change management.
This module will cover many aspects of public governance, accountability and transparency.
We will start the course by looking at the systems and processes of government, at the differences and relationships between the public and the private section, and at public policy decision-making.
We will turn our attention, then, to issues that arise from stakeholder management and risk management in government.
After the Reading Week, we will pay attention to issues related to fraud and corruption, internal control systems, auditing, ethics and integrity in the public sector.
We will conclude the course by looking at the role of policy and programme evaluation in government.
This module provides students with a basic conceptual framework and practical knowledge regarding finance and investments in emerging markets.
This module is concerned with the differences in financial systems between emerging markets and mature market economies; and how these differences explain the observed discrepancies in corporate financing behaviour between firms in emerging markets and those in mature market economies.
The aim of this module is to prepare students for understanding the changing dynamics of multinational enterprises (MNEs) and developing a critical perspective on the MNEs and their relationship with the external environment.
Placement Year and Research Project
The PG Placement module provides students with an opportunity to apply the academic knowledge they have gained in the first taught portion of the degree programme in a practical, professional setting.
The yearlong placement will enable students to develop their own work practice, teamwork and collaboration skills, critical analysis, problem solving, autonomy, and specific skills relevant to the host organisation.
Following the taught element of the PG Programme, students will undertake a 10-12 month placement in an organisation.
Upon completion of the placement, students will work on the dissertation or final project, applying the practical skills they have developed during the placement.
Students are required to submit a research project on a topic relating to Economics or Economic Policy.
Guidance on developing the research project will be given as part of Research Methods  during term 1, as well as through the supervisors who will be allocated according to their expertise.
The research project is carried out through Term 2 and into the summer period, and is submitted in September.
The MSc Economic Policy consists of six core modules and one optional modules, each worth 15 credits.
Two of the core modules cover economic theory and analysis, one of the core modules covers research methods, while the two other core modules give training in statistics.
In addition, the Research Project in Economic Policy accounts for 60 credits.
The modules are taught in seminar groups and lectures.
The degrees is awarded on the basis of assessed coursework, examinations and the dissertation.
The MSc is taught over a period of 12-months of full-time study within a structured programme.
In case of part-time study, the degree will be taught over two or three years.
For a two year study, four modules are studied each year, with the dissertation normally being completed in the second year, while the number of modules taken is decided in consultation with the programme convenor for a three year study.
All Masters programmes consist of 180 credits, made up of taught modules of 30 or 15 credits, taught over 10 or 20 weeks, and a dissertation/research project of 60 credits.
Economics graduates leave SOAS with a solid grounding in statistical skills and an ability to think laterally, take a global perspective, and employ critical reasoning.
Recent graduates from the Department of Economics have been hired by:
Lecturer in Economics
Professor of Development Economics
Teemu Lari interviews DLD Co-Director Ha-Joon Chang on the topic of ‘Economics, pluralism and democracy’ for the Erasmus Journal for Philosophy and Economics.
Economics can feel intimidating, often shrouded in complex theories and jargon.
However, the recently published article, Economics, Pluralism, and Democracy: An Interview with Ha-Joon Chang, offers a refreshing perspective that could help dispel these fears.
Are Randomized Control Trials truly a global solution to poverty, or do they mask deeper issues with superficial fixes?
Uncover the ethical and political flaws behind this "gold standard".
The rise of ride-hailing apps in Indonesia has absorbed informal labour into the gig economy.
Kafi Prasetya explores the labour conditions within this sector to assess their impact on the social welfare of the workers.
Economics PhD student Thabo Huntgeburth explores how AI may worsen the productivity slump, instead exacerbating wage inequality and economic stagnation.
This project develops an ecological macroeconomic model for the Philippines that allows BSP to analyse the interactions between climate change and the country’s macrofinancial system using scenario analysis.
This project develops a conceptual framework and a scenario analysis of (i) the transmission channels through which deforestation, land conversion and water stress interact with the macroeconomy and the financial system and (ii) the role that financial and monetary policies can play in helping address the environmental crisis.
This research project aims to conduct a thorough analysis of the dynamics influencing access to capital markets for developing and emerging economies, particularly under the strain of climate change-related vulnerabilities.
The Japan Economy Network (JEN) and SOAS University of London invite submissions of papers and extended abstracts for the Seventh Annual JEN Conference.
Accelerating action on climate change in Asia and the Pacific while maintaining fiscal sustainability over the medium-to-long term presents a critical challenge for policymakers.
SOAS to co-organise conference in Tokyo in July 2025.
Designing contextualised AMR awareness campaigns to promote transformational societal change
This project develops an ecological macroeconomic model for Albania that allows the Bank of Albania to analyse the effects of environmental change and environmental policies on the Albanian macroeconomy and financial system using scenario analysis.
Join us with Donghyun Park (Asian Development Bank) for the presentation of the second edition of the Asian Development Policy Report (ADPR) 2025, an annual flagship report of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) that addresses developing Asia’s salient development challenges, delves into the topic of Harnessing Digital Transformation for Good.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/msc-development-economics-placement-year:
Kuwait: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.0/
Latvia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bakalaura Diploms (Bachelor's) or Profesionālā Bakalaura Diploms
Lebanon: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree / Licence
Equivalent to 2:ii: 75% or Grade B-/C+ or GPA 2.8/4.0 or 14/20
Liberia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree
Libya: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor Degree from selected institution
Lithuania: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors / Bakalauro (180 ECTS)
Malawi: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70% or GPA 3.0/4.0
Malaysia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.0/4.0 or B (Class 2 Division 2)
Malta: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class with 65% or Category IIB
Mexico: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Titulo de Licenciado
Equivalent to 2:ii: 8/10 or 80%
Morocco: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licence / Licence d'Etudes Fondamentales / Licence Professionnelle
Nepal: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master's degree / Bachelor degree (4-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 70%
Netherlands: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 6.5/10 or GPA 3.0
New Zealand: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: Majority of credited modules B- or above
Nigeria: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: Lower Second Class or 55% or GPA 3.0/5.0 or 2.5/4.0 or 4.0/7.0
Norway: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelors / Bachelorgrad (180 ECTS) or Candidatus /a magisterii
Equivalent to 2:ii: Grade C (with at least 80 ECTS) at grade B or 3.2
Oman: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: 3.0/4.0
Pakistan: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor (4-year) / Master's from HEC recognised institution
Equivalent to 2:ii: CGPA 2.7 or 65%
Philippines: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Master’s from recognised institution or Centre of Excellence / Bachelor from prestigious institution or Centre of Excellence
Equivalent to 2:ii: Prestigous Universities: GPA 3.3/4.0 or 1.75/5.0 or Grade B or 83% Recognised Universities: GPA 3.5/4.0 or 2.0/5.0 or Grade B or 87%
Poland: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licencjat or Inżynier (3-year)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 4.25/5
Portugal: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Licenciado (180 ECTS)
Equivalent to 2:ii: 15/20
Qatar: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Bachelor degree
Equivalent to 2:ii: GPA 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0 or 70% or 7/10
Romania: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplomă de Licenţă / Diplomă de Inginer / Diplomă de Urbanist Diplomat
Equivalent to 2:ii: 8/10
Russia: Qualifications (Bachelor equivalency): Diplom Bakalavra or Specialist Diploma
We will consider all applications with a 2:2 (or international equivalent) in Economics and other Social Sciences (such as Politics, Sociology, Finance, Business, International Relations, Law), as well as Mathematics, Physics, Statistics, or Engineering.
Applicants with professional qualifications or relevant professional experience will also be considered.
Applicants will need to demonstrate they have studied Economic theory (including Macroeconomics and Microeconomics) and ONE of the following: Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Quantitative Methods (Statistics or Econometrics).
In addition to degree classification, we take into account other elements of the application such as supporting statement.
References are optional but can help build a stronger application if you fall below the 2:2 requirement or have non-traditional qualifications.
The MSc Development Economics with Work Placement Year is the flagship Master's programme offered by the SOAS Economics Department.
It combines the two core intellectual traditions nurtured for decades in our unique department: a pluralist approach to economics and a focus on real-world development issues.
If you are interested in understanding how the global economy works, what economic challenges and opportunities countries in the Global South face, and what to do about intensifying inequalities and ecological breakdown, this degree is for you.
In macroeconomics, you will engage with different schools of macroeconomic thought on issues like inflation, unemployment, inequality, money creation, climate change and macroeconomic policy.
In microeconomics, different theoretical perspectives on issues like market failures, risk, market structures and production are compared and contrasted.
In development economics, you are introduced to economic theories and policies for development through a historical, pluralist and decolonial approach.
The MSc Development Economics is a taught Masters degree.
It consists of eight modules delivered through lectures, classes, and tutorials and an 10,000-word dissertation.
The degree is awarded on the basis of examinations written in May and a dissertation which is submitted in September.
All students must complete the compulsory Preliminary course in Mathematics and Statistics which is taught over three weeks in August/ September before the start of the core modules of the MSc.
Completion of the placement year comes with an optional additional 60 credits (on top of the mandatory 180 credits that need to be completed for the MSc Development Economics degree).
A complete list of optional modules in the programme is listed below, not all of which are offered in any single year.
The information on the programme page reflects the intended programme structure against the given academic session.
If you are a current student you can find structure information on the previous year link at the top of the page or through your Department.
Please read the important notice regarding changes to programmes and modules .
The purpose of this course is to provide an overview of macroeconomic theory with coverage of important theoretical issues, methods and debates, and serve as reference for more applied or specialised modules of our MSc programmes.
This module surveys core theories and techniques in microeconomics.
It focuses on the key themes of relative price determination and strategic choice from the perspective of different traditions in microeconomics.
60 credits from across Guided Options lists.
To follow a line of specialisation of 30 credits, the remaining 30 credits should be selected from General and Regional Guided Options.
This course is about the economic structures, institutions and policy challenges in the countries of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA).
The module starts with a broad economic history of the region since the mid 19th Century and goes on to address selected aspects of economic policy in the contemporary period in areas related to natural and human resources.
Among the topics covered are: the oil sector, labour migration and capital flows, problems of industrialization in resource based economies, and population transition.
For the purposes of this course, the MENA region comprises the Arab countries, Iran and Turkey.
Placement Year and Dissertation
The dissertation is completed during the summer under the supervision of a member of the Department.
Supervisors are allocated by the Department based on approved topics and staff availability.
Supervisors provide guidance on source material, hypothesis formulation, research methods and structure but will not read complete drafts.
The MSc includes eight taught modules plus a preliminary course in Mathematics and Statistics and an 10,000-word dissertation.
The courses are taught in seminar groups and lectures.
The degrees are awarded on the basis of assessed coursework, examinations and the dissertation.
The MSc degrees are taught over a period of twelve months of full-time study within a structured programme.
In the case of part-time study, the degrees will be taught over two or three years.
Four modules are studied each year, with the dissertation normally being completed in the second year.
More information is on the page for each module.
Students are required to complete a 10,000-word dissertation in applied economics.
Our MSc programmes attract students with a wide range of backgrounds including many who have worked for a few years before coming to SOAS.
Our popular quantitative courses are designed to be accessible to all of our students including those with a relatively small quantitative component in their first degree.
They focus on applying basic methods used in empirical research and equip students to carry out their own high quality empirical work and critically evaluate research, with relatively little emphasis on advanced econometric theory and mathematical proofs.
The compulsory Preliminary Maths and Statistics course will be offered on the SOAS Moodle/BLE online platform.
The objective of the course is to review the basic quantitative skills assumed once formal teaching commences.
Students will be enrolled on the Module from July 2022 onwards.
Students will be required to take the course and complete the exam prior to their arrival at SOAS.
Limited support via office hours will be offered by the lecturer during September 2022.
The MSc in Development Economics - and the critical approach to economic and development issues it provides - is a gateway to various job opportunities in international organisations, governments, NGOs and private companies.
The advanced nature of the programme also serves as an excellent foundation for PhD studies.
Find out about our Careers Service

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/msc-finance-placement-year:
Home: £15,740 (+£1,385 placement year fee) International: £26,770 (+£1,385 placement year fee)
The MSc Finance with Work Placement Year provides you with the opportunity to study in the heart of London, close to one of the world’s premier financial centres with highly dynamic firms operating in Banking, Insurance, FinTech, and the financial services ecosystem.
You will be part of a highly international cohort of ambitious students seeking to make an impact in a global career in finance and financial management.
You will be able to study cutting-edge skills such as Analytics and new areas such as Green Finance, and add a new dimension to your global effectiveness skill-set by studying a language.
Additional opportunities to improve employability skills, including a virtual industry project where you work in teams to solve a real-world problem as student consultants.
The MSc Finance is a flexible option for those with or without prior background in finance.
The School of Finance and Management is excited to continue its collaboration with Practera, building on the success of the previous SFM Virtual Industry Projects.
These bespoke work-based learning projects are designed to grow your professional skills and network through working with a team of SOAS students to tackle a real-world business challenge.
Students must take 180 credits .
These are composed of 120 taught credits comprising core, compulsory, and optional modules and a 60 credit dissertation .
Completion of the placement year comes with an optional additional 60 credits (on top of the 180 mandatory credits that need to be completed for the MSc Financial Management degree).
Not all optional modules are offered every year.
Also note that where 15 credit modules are selected, these should be balanced between term 1 and term 2.
This module provides students with fundamental knowledge of the important components and structures of financial statements.
It aims to provide a grounding in analytical and numerical skills, professional ethics in the real world, share valuations, and assessments of the quality of corporate financial reports.
Four compulsory modules
This module provides students with fundamental knowledge in principles of international corporate finance and asset pricing to understand and analyse the major issues affecting the financial policies of corporation in capital markets.
This course is concerned with the decisions that firms make about financing their investment in a global economic environment.
You will study the principles underlying such decision-making, their application and debates over them in relation to the modern literature to develop analytical skills in a challenging global environment, and other complex specialised contexts.
This module provides students with fundamental knowledge about how to use financial tools to manage risk.
The risk tools of management covered by the module include portfolio analysis; bonds and the yield curve; financial derivatives (including forwards and futures); options (and how to use them to hedge) and Value at Risk (VaR).
This course provides an introduction to the applications of econometric methods in finance.
It examines how one can formulate the relationships suggested by financial and economic theory in mathematical and statistical format, how to estimate these models using sample data, and how to make relevant statements based on the parameters of the estimated models.
The course examines the assumptions that are necessary for the estimators to have desirable properties and the assumptions necessary to make statistical inferences.
In addition, the course explores what happens when these assumptions are not satisfied, and what one can do in these circumstances.
The course concludes with an examination of how to select an appropriate model for applications in finance.
The module provides a foundation for students to understand financial markets and financial instruments.
The module compares the different models of financial systems observed globally.
It covers the types and functions of financial markets; participants in financial markets (including financial institutions and government); and common financial instruments.
It introduces the main elements of financial markets, including the money market, bond market, stock market, and derivatives market.
It analyses the features of financial instruments, which correspond to each element of financial markets (bond, equity, futures and options), through real life cases in the financial markets.
A minimum of 30 credits to be selected from List A.
A further 15 credits can be selected from either List A or Open Languages.
The aim of this module is to introduce the philosophical, theoretical and practical bases of conducting academic research.
The advances in digital technologies resulted in various opportunities and threats to existing economic and societal systems.
More specifically, digitalisation restructures policymaking processes, regulatory governance, and poses significant structural challenges to public administration.
Besides, the rise of blockchain technology and distributed electronic ledgers add another dimension with the emergence of cryptocurrency and cryptoassets and their regulation.
In this context, this module examines the key concepts and theoretical frameworks at the intersection of digital government and regulation.
The module begins with presenting the key implications of digitalisation and the rise of disruptive technologies for public administration and public policy.
Next, the module studies blockchain infrastructure, regulation of disruptive technologies, fintech and regtech, and finally cryptoassets and central bank digital currencies
Fiscal governance consists of the systems, processes and tools that ensure the prudent management of financial resources in the public sector.
Fiscal governance is crucial to the long-term prosperity of countries as it relates to fundamental policy choices that are made about taxation, public spending and public debt.
In today’s sophisticated economic and institutional conditions, fiscal policies are made through complex interactions between central governments, central banks, sub-national governments, supernational organisations, the financial sector.
At the same time, inclusiveness in budgeting processes (e.g., citizen participation, gender equality in budgeting) and crisis preparedness (e.g., climate change, man-made disasters) have also become crucial.
In this context, this module examines the key concepts, tools and theoretical frameworks of public financial management.
The course begins with presenting what public financial management, main theoretical frameworks and the tools of public financial management.
The course then proceeds with the political and administrative dimensions of public financial management.
Empirically, the course will look at various current debates on fiscal governance, from the choice about what to tax and how much, to the relationship between public debt and economic growth, to the advantages of accrual accounting in the public sector.
In classes, students will be required to analyse and present assigned case studies.
Students will be expected to participate actively, where they will develop skills and capabilities about applying theories and methods to tackling fiscal governance issues.
This postgraduate module on Project Management provides students with an in-depth understanding of essential techniques and methodologies utilized in modern project management settings.
Students will explore the five key phases of project management: initiation, planning, execution, monitoring and control, and closure.
This module introduces students to the analysis of innovation within the context of systems of innovation.
It complements the course Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship, which is focused on the firm and entrepreneurial activity and characteristics, by considering the wider innovation system in which firms operate.
Key actors in the system include, firms, government agencies and organisations that comprise the science base e.g.
universities, research institutes and technology transfer organisations.
The Practical Industry Project has an embedded Practera Virtual Industry Experience component that sits at its centre, offering studens the opportunity to get valuable real-world industry experience through working in a team on a real-world client brief and then developing this further through an individual assessment component.
The Practera experience which sits at the centre of this module involves students working in groups of 5-6 students on.a specific client brief.
The managing of this portion of the module is entirely handled by Practera using their own management platform where students will be supervised and group meetings as well as client meetings take place.
Students work on the group project will be monitored by Practera, working closely with the module convenor.
This module is a final culminating piece of work for MSc programmes.
It is an extended work of 5,000 words (excluding the Bibliography and other items listed in the Word Count and Marking of Overlength Coursework Policy as falling outside the word count), based on an original piece of research undertaken by the student on a topic relevant to the aims and objectives of the MSc programme.
The module brings together theory, method, collection and analysis of empirical evidence in a small-scale research project, the findings of which are analysed and critically discussed.
The project typically involves addressing an issue of both theoretical and practical relevance.
It will entail the collection of primary and/or secondary data (of quantitative and/or qualitative sorts) through various means (such as, for example, interviews, focus groups, surveys, datasets, and simulations) and their analysis, as agreed with the supervisor.
The dissertation project is based on original research in a small-scale research project.
The project typically involves a literature review, data collection (including primary/secondary data and case studies), and the development and evaluation of an appropriate research design to address research questions.
Students are allocated a dissertation supervisor in Semester 2.
Students can take a maximum of 15 credits from the School-wide languages' open options list.
Masters programmes (with the exception of two-year full-time MAs) consist of 180 credits, made up of taught modules of 30 or 15 credits, taught over 10 or 20 weeks, and a dissertation of 60 credits.
Graduates from the School of Finance and Management leave SOAS with a coherent and solid knowledge of management and finance, with skills in statistics and computing, critical reasoning and analytical thinking.
Jaideep's research interests are in the field of risk management.
Shireesh Mohan Khare shares his experience of taking a career break to study MSc in Public Policy and Management and how it helped him in his role.
From a medical professional to a policy-maker, Hamzah's career has been dedicated to social responsibility and helping to bring conflict resolution and peacebuilding to Yemen.
A final-year student reflects on her time studying at SOAS, what she has learnt and how she has developed personally.
Family businesses can often be perceived as fragile and full of drama.
But can keeping it in the family offer competitive advantages?
Developing understanding of the Chinese financial system and its crucial role in supporting the future development and continued growth of the Chinese economy.
Assessing the role of fintech in the expansion of UK-India bilateral trade in goods and financial services.
Identifying workable policies to help make the financial sector an effective instrument in promoting financial inclusion and sustained growth in low-income countries.
Identifying and monitoring mega trends in global finance, allowing for dynamics of competitive conditions, which are engendered by the interplay between institutional economics and technological innovations.
The first systematic analysis of the relationship between climate vulnerability and the cost of capital in developing countries

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/msc-international-business-placement-year:
The MSc International Business with Work Placement Year programme provides you with the platform from which to understand corporate strategy and actions to address societal grand challenges in global markets, and to build up individual cultural intelligence in delivering effective communication, negotiation and work in a multicultural business environment.
This programme will help you establish or consolidate your career path in global firms, start-ups reaching out to international markets, or working for policy makers in international trade and investment.
Through interactive teaching and learning students are expected to develop their critical perspectives on the changing dynamics of multinational firms and small businesses and their relationships with the external environment.
The School of Finance and Management is excited to continue its collaboration with Practera, building on the success of the previous SFM Virtual Industry Projects .
These bespoke work-based learning projects are designed to grow your professional skills and network through working with a team of SOAS students to tackle a real-world business challenge.
The programme is open to graduates from any discipline.
Work experience is welcome but not necessary.
Completion of the placement year comes with an optional additional 60 credits (on top of the 180 mandatory credits that need to be completed for the MSc International Business degree).
The aim of this module is to introduce the key concepts of Human Resource Management (HRM) by examining the evolution, functions and processes of HRM within a theoretical and ‘best practice’ context.
The module then focuses on HRM from a global perspective and assesses the operation of HRM across distinct cultural and business contexts.
This module provides a framework for analysing decisions made by firms in an international context.
While the foundations of the course are concepts developed in economics, they will be combined with (and challenged by) insights from strategy, international finance, marketing, human resource management, and other areas.
The final aim of the course is to provide you with a critical understanding of whether and to what extent the ways economists have studied and modeled firms’ internationalization decisions offer any support in real world decision making.
Guided options - between 15 and 45 credits
This module is designed to develop cultural intelligence through a highly practical approach to enhance interpersonal and intercultural communication skills for future career in international teams and global business environment.
The body of the module examines the fundamental concepts of cultural, assesses the impact of cultural values in intercultural business environment and explores the the impact of cultural difference on international team effectiveness, business negotiations, communication, and personal presentation.
For international companies to achieve significant competitiveness in the marketplace, it is important that managers understand consumer behaviour.
This module, therefore, discusses the internal processes that occur within consumers´ minds as well as external processes that influence consumers’ experience, engagements and relationships with international companies/brands.
The dissertation project brings together theory and method in a small-scale research project, the findings of which are analysed and critically discussed.
The project is an academic piece of work, which is a reflection of an appropriate research design based on literature review and empirical study, either from preliminary or secondary data.
Students are allocated a dissertation supervisor in Term 2 and will normally receive three substantive supervision meetings, The role of the supervisor is to assist the student in refining the topic of research, approve the plan of work, advise on sources and help the student with such problems as may arise during the course of the research and writing.
In year one, students can take a maximum of 30 credits from the School-wide open options list, including languages.
Find out about our Careers Service .
Helen joined SOAS in 2002 and lectures on economic, business, labour and HRM issues in contemporary Japan (and within a broader East Asian context).
Her research interests focus on a broad range of topics relating to gender issues, employment and sport in Japan.
International and Chinese entrepreneurship, sustainable entrepreneurship, economic development and international business under climate change, internationalisation of emerging economy firms, creative industry and firm growth.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/msc-innovation-entrepreneurship-and-strategy-placement-year:
Entrepreneurship and innovation are key determinants of organisational performance.
As knowledge has become more central to business and organisational performance in the 21st century, catalysing creativity and managing innovation has taken on greater importance.
There is also a need to manage innovation to help resolve major challenges, such as, climate change, public health crises, financial inclusion, management of artificial intelligence, technology transfer and convergence.
This module introduces students to innovation management and entrepreneurship.
It focuses on the psychological antecedents and characteristics of entrepreneurship as a creative process that results in new products, new processes, new organisational forms and new markets.
It explores these concepts using different theoretical perspectives on how firms innovate and the factors shaping the innovation management process, including analysis of the sources of innovation (entrepreneurship), the selection of innovation projects, the diffusion of innovations, the role of internal and external variables and the importance of the firm’s institutional environment.
The overall objective of this module is to provide an informed appreciation of international marketing as an academic subject and management practice.
This module focuses on the central strategic issue in international marketing – standardisation versus adaptation and examines the topics of marketing competitive advantage in relation to changing consumer behaviour and customer relationships.
Digital technologies and technological innovations, including the Internet, e-commerce and social media platforms, are rapidly moving the balance of power in relationships, through customer engagement to a ‘customer led’ phase.
Technology has allowed ‘user (consumer) generated content’, however, this needs to be well managed in order to yield results.
The students will be exposed to a synthesis of well-established digital marketing theories and the most recent academic research on it.
This module aims at developing students’ understanding, knowledge and expertise in planning, implementing and managing successful e-marketing strategies.
Module draws specific attention to the role of online, mobile, and social media marketing techniques on contemporary marketing practices.
Students can take a maximum of 30 credits from the School-wide languages' open options list.
Masters programmes (with the exception of 2-year full-time MAs) consist of 180 credits, made up of taught modules of 30 or 15 credits, taught over 10 or 20 weeks, and a dissertation of 60 credits.
Industrial organisation and policy, innovation, sustainable development and corporate governance, including the governance and regulation of sport

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/msc-public-policy-and-management-placement-year-0:
The MSc Public Policy and Management with Year in Industry programme will develop your capacity to understand, analyse and manage organisations in the public sector.
The programme provides students with state-of-the-art knowledge of theories, doctrines, and techniques for making public sector entities perform efficiently and effectively.
You will develop practical skills to design and implement systems of public service delivery, to devise applications of digital technologies to public services, to lead innovation and change, and to manage public financial resources.
You will have the opportunity to learn about and discuss some among the crucial issues that government face nowadays, from healthcare to education, climate change to natural disasters, from migration to poverty reduction, and from the cultivation of capacity building to the development of digital strategies.
A wide range of optional modules will provide you with the opportunity to explore several public sector-related topics.
The programme aims to help students start a career in government and public sector agencies, or strengthen their prospects for an improved career trajectory.
This programme can be offered as part of a dual masters degree with Korea University.
Through the dual masters, students can spend the first year studying at KU and second year at SOAS or vice versa and gain a Masters award from each institution.
For more information and eligible programmes included in the dual masters, please see the SOAS-KU partnership on the Global Partnerships website.
Recent Finance and Management graduates have been hired by:
Public policy and management, especially in the political economy of regulation and regulatory reforms, public policy implementation, public management.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/requesting-cas/cas-request-form-new-students:
Please complete the form below to request a CAS for UK Student Visa

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/paying-your-tuition-fees/cas-deposit:
All students who require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) to study at SOAS will need to make a CAS deposit payment of £4,000.
This payment will count towards the tuition fees for your programme of study and is non-refundable (see further details below).
You will be asked to make this payment before a CAS can be issued.
Please pay the CAS deposit by Flywire .
This is typically the fastest and most efficient way to ensure your payment reaches SOAS in good time to process a CAS.
Postgraduate and Doctoral School offer holders can use either your application number or 6 digit student number.
(Please note student numbers for Postgraduate offer holders are only generated in the summer and may not be available to you at the time you request a CAS.
In this case, use your application number) Undergraduate offer holders will need to use your 6 digit student number.
You will need to select your country or region of payment which will then determine the method of payment options available.
You may be exempt from paying the CAS deposit if your tuition fees are fully funded by an official sponsor or scholarship, including:
You will be required to upload this evidence in official letter format when submitting your CAS request.
It is advised that you do not pay the CAS deposit whilst waiting for a decision on a pending scholarship application as the deposit is non-refundable.
NB: Please note that documentation which is accepted to waive your CAS deposit payment, may not be suitable to use as part of your visa application.
It is the applicants responsibility to ensure that UKVI visa requirements are met, and correct documents are submitted.
The CAS deposit of £4000 is non-refundable.
A refund is only possible in the following circumstances:
The deadline to request a refund of the CAS deposit payment is the 31 October of the year your academic programme started.
CAS deposit refund requests will be processed by the Admissions team prior to registration.
If you have enrolled and paid tuition fees, the CAS deposit refund is still subject to approval.
Please refer to the tuition fee refund and charging policy for the remaining fees you have paid.
If you have an approved deferred offer, and have paid the CAS deposit, the deposit amount will be offset against your tuition fees for the following year.
We will not issue a refund in this case.
To request a CAS deposit refund, please complete the refund request form below.
Evidence of payment such as a receipt or a bank statement showing payment from that account must be provided.
We will need the bank's SWIFT or BIC code.
Failure to do so will delay the refund or prevent it altogether.
If your refund request is approved, the deposit will be refunded to the bank account of the person or organisation who initially paid the deposit or credited back to the credit card used for the original payment.
Refunds will be paid in UK Sterling as per the exchange rates on the day of the refund.
Deposits will not be refunded under any circumstances if an applicant is found to have provided false information to SOAS, or if the Student Visa application is denied because the applicant breached immigration conditions, committed a criminal offence or used deception.
Please be advised, a £55 administration fee will be deducted from the refund.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/teap-english-academic-purposes-teacher-training-courses:
We are offering both online and on campus TEAP courses which give teachers from other English language teaching sectors an opportunity to familiarise themselves with the Higher Education context and EAP practices.
These short courses will concentrate on one skill area at a time and can be combined to build the introductory course above in full or in part.
They allow you to take a flexible approach to your participation according to your specific needs and as your time dictates.
We do not have fixed entry requirements, but we prefer participants to have some ELT or ESOL teaching experience with some training or a qualification to support this.
We do also consider applicants with relevant experience in educational management or curriculum development.
We also offer existing experienced EAP teachers the chance to enrich their current practice through exploring current trends in EAP and reflecting on new approaches with our TEAP seminars.
SOAS University of London is the only Higher Education Institution in Europe specialising in the study of Asia, Africa and the Near and Middle East.
Situated in Bloomsbury in the heart of London, it uniquely combines language scholarship, disciplinary expertise, and regional focus, with the largest concentration anywhere of academic staff focused on Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
SOAS research directly informs public thinking, government policy and issues affecting the lives of people globally, in areas such as democracy, development, economy, finance, public and corporate policy, human rights, migration, identity, legal systems, poverty, religion, and social change.
The SOAS library attracts scholars from around the world.
SOAS is among the world’s most international HEI with about 60% of students from outside the UK, five times the global average (source: QS).
The International Foundation Courses and English Language Studies department is part of the SOAS Foundation College, with a staff of 40+ teachers and subject lecturers.
They provide undergraduate and post-graduate foundation programmes for students who proceed on to bachelor, masters, or doctoral studies at SOAS University of London and other high-profile universities.
IFCELS, renowned for integrating academic subject study with language development, also runs the university’s pre-sessional English courses, various summer programmes, and in-sessional provisions in language and study skills support for degree students across all disciplines.
The five linked threads that run through the course are: academic writing, academic reading, academic speaking and listening, learner needs analysis with student conferencing and materials development.
We plan to resume our programme of TEAP courses in the Autumn 2024.
Please read the important notice regarding changes to programmes and modules .
The minimum required time to complete the TEAP course is 40 hours, but a recommended commitment is 50-60 hours during the month.
This is comprised of 16 live (synchronous) facilitated sessions, project tutorials and other contact time, plus 30-40 of asynchronous required preparatory activity, moderated forum contribution and project preparation.
The 90 minute live sessions will be held on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and some Fridays
Note that participants will need a capable device or computer with the capacity for good quality video and audio call connections, supported by an internet capacity of good bandwidth and speed to take part.
Headphone use is mandatory to avoid feedback and background noise.
Conducted over a two week period, this intensive TEAP course requires a full time commitment.
Sessions run from 9:15 am to approximately 4 PM Monday to Friday and are a mix of workshops and seminars as well as group tutorials and independent project preparation.
These short courses are conducted online and are of various lengths from between 16 to 12 hours of synchronous and asynchronous content .
They are based on our full length introductory courses and can combined to build the whole content; however, they present a more flexible option timewise and allow you concentrate on your specific training needs at a time.
For instructions on how to pay see IFCELS fees and application payment
A discount of 10% is available for SOAS staff and students, exchange students and alumni.
For further details and information on external scholarships visit the Scholarships section
Email: TEAP@soas.ac.uk
Global Development Studies - academic subject summer course at SOAS University of London
BA Chinese at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/esl-study-skills-academic-english-support:
English as a Second Language (ESL) Study Skills (formerly known as In-sessional) operates from Learning Teaching Enhancement in D18 library and from LTE intranet pages.
It helps International Students with Academic English, especially with the four skills of writing, reading, speaking and listening and with grammar.
ESL Study Skills works in partnership with Study Skills which provides academic support to all students at SOAS.
It also helps introduce international students to UK university learning, teaching and assessment approaches.
Some international students may be unfamiliar with the UK argument essay, or newer types of assessment- podcasts, blogs, book reviews or video essays, for example.
There are four main ways ESL Study Skills support is available once a student has enrolled:
More information can be found from the LTE intranet pages.
These are free of charge and non-credit bearing and no formal assessments are made.
They exist to support international students on their academic journey and are open to all students for whom English is not the first language.
Foundation Year, Undergraduate, taught Postgraduate, Online Learning, Postgraduate Research, Visiting Research are all eligible if the student is ESL (IFCELS students currently do not have access to these courses).
At -the start of term, the EAP (English for Academic Purposes) Lead at LTE will contact students who might be interested in taking these courses and invite them to apply.
If you are not contacted for some reason but want to attend, you can fill in the self-referral form.
The online workshops are advertised on the intranet pages and students are invited to register for these.
They will cover the four skill areas of writing, reading, speaking and listening as well as grammar.
These exist alongside the regular Study Skills workshops.
Workshops are a combination of lecture style input and workshop activities.
Q&A is encouraged.
The classroom based courses run five times a year.
These are for smaller groups of 10 students and take place in person on campus.
They are 2 hours per week once a week for 4 week periods.
They are accessed through e-mail invitation or by filling in the self-referral form.
Classes are designed to encourage free and open discussion with the teacher and other students, to stimulate questioning and critical thinking within a supportive environment.
They are a unique opportunity to meet and work alongside students from different disciplines, and backgrounds, which will often cross-fertilize.
Courses take place in blocks:
These courses do not run during reading weeks or holidays.
ESL 1-1 tutorials are offered to some students and others can apply for these using the self-referral form .
Students can take 2x 1-1 tutorials per term in focused 30-minute sessions with an Academic Tutor.
Online self-study provision is self-access and available from the LTE Sharepoint pages all year round and are open to all.
These are independent study lessons which take about 1-2 hrs to complete for each lesson, with 4-6 of these lessons per course.
Neil Robbie is available in D18 in the library in person at various times on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and is contactable via Teams (0207 898 4815).
Please contact Neil at lteinfo@soas.ac.uk prior to visiting to be sure of an appointment if you want to talk about what support you may need.
They are not timetabled like your other courses, so you need to make a note of any courses you are accepted on in your personal calendar.
You need to know your academic timetable in full before applying.
The courses aim to support you in your academic programmes so work around their structure.
Moodle offers a variety of online materials for I support which are accessible from the ESL Study Skills intranet pages .
These can be accessed once you are enrolled.
Also the Skills for Success Moodle pages and English for Academic Purposes Moodle pages are recommended for your independent learning.
Free ESL Study Skills courses are open to the following part-time and full-time SOAS student groups:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/english-language-skills:
This is a 3-week academic English course for students from pre-intermediate level and upwards.
It focusses on strengthening the main English language skills (reading, writing, speaking and listening) within a university context.
Students will also expand both general and academic vocabulary, as well as developing greater confidence in communicating effectively in English in the classroom.
Classes take place everyday from Monday - Friday, and are led by two English for Academic Purposes specialists who target literacy (reading and writing) and oracy (listening and speaking).
This course would be particularly beneficial for students currently taking degrees in their home countries, in addition to those thinking about future university study in the UK.
To get the most from the course we recommend that students have at least a pre-intermediate level of English, i.e.
IELTS 4.5 overall or equivalent.
Key skills taught will include:
This is a full-time course with classes every morning and afternoon, delivered by two specialists in English for Academic Purposes.
Students can expect to strengthen reading, writing, speaking and listening skills in an academic context, as well as expanding vocabulary and developing confidence in communicating more complex ideas.
The maximum number of students per class is 15.
You will receive a certificate for successful course completion.
Students will also have access to SOAS library including our wide range of e-books and e-journals.
*Compared to the cost of multiple individual blocks.
The reduced fees for multiple blocks above are available for 2 or 3 blocks booked at the same time.
For information, please visit Scholarships .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/advanced-reading-and-writing:
This is a 3-week academic English course for students at undergraduate or postgraduate level who already have at least an upper intermediate level of English (IELTS 6.5 in Writing or equivalent).
It focusses on developing and reinforcing the key literacy skills needed for successful degree study at British universities.
Students will strengthen their essay-writing, reading and critical thinking skills.
The extended writing process is a central component of this course and students will plan, draft and redraft their work.
The work done in the areas of reading and writing skills is closely inter-related.
Individual tutorial sessions are included in the writing classes to discuss feedback and address particular problem areas.
Daily live interactive classes are supplemented with guided independent tasks.
This course would be particularly beneficial for students beginning degree study in the autumn and who wish to get a head start on the rigours of writing at university level, as well as to develop effective strategies for meeting reading demands.
It would also suit those who are coming to study in UK from different academic backgrounds or who have been out of academic study for some time.
Students should be at an upper intermediate level of English at least, i.e.
minimum IELTS 6.5 overall with 6.5 in Writing (or equivalent).
This course taught me a lot on how a good research paper should be done.
I’m very confident that it will definitely help me in my degree.
Thanabodee Younghom (previous student
In the writing section, you will be learning about the style and conventions of academic writing at an advanced level.
You will be given the opportunity to put the skills you learn on the course into practice in two main ways:
You will need to read a number of texts to complete the longer writing tasks and will be given advice on how to do this effectively in both the reading and writing sections of the course.
Important notice
This is a full-time course with interactive live classes every day (mornings UK time), plus daily independent guided study.
The course is delivered by two specialists in English for Academic Purposes, with live lessons every morning (UK time).
By the end of this course it is expected that you will have:
All teaching takes place online using easy-to-use platforms.
You will need a computer with a webcam and mic.
For further information please see IFCELS frequently asked questions
The fee for any additional blocks booked after the initial application will be £1,800 for one extra block and £3,350 for two.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/ba-japanese:
Home: £9,535 International: £22,870
ABB
Contextual: BBB
Austria : Reifeprufungszeugnis / Maturazeugnis: four subjects at 1, 2, 2, 2
A Level equivalent : ABB Contextualised offer : BBB
Belgium : Diploma van Secundair Onderwijs: 75% (7.5/10, 15/20) overall
Bulgaria: Diploma za Zavarsheno Sredno Obrazovanie: 5.3 and 5.0 in two State Maturity Exams
Canada: High School Diploma : 80% with 5 acceptable Grade 12 subjects (most territories).
British Columbia: AABBB in Grade 12 courses.
China: Senior Secondary Graduation Certificate + Gaokao : 78% overall in Gaokao PLUS 85% overall in Senior Secondary School Graduation Certificate (year 11 and 12)
Croatia: Matura Certificate : 4.5 overall with 5 in 1 Higher level subject
Cyprus: Apolytirion with 2 A-Levels : Apolytirion 18/20 + A-level grades BB
Czech Republic: Matura Certificate : 1, 2, 2, 2
Denmark: Studentereksamen; Hojere Forberedelseseksamen; Hojere Handelseksamen; Hojere Teknisk Eksamen : 7 plus 10, 7, 7 in three Level A subjects
Information for prospective students from Denmark
Estonia: Gümnaasiumi lõputunnistus with the Riigieksamitunnistus : 4.0 with 85%, 80%, and 80% in 3 state exams
Finland: Ylioppilastukint / Studentexamen : four subjects at 6, 5, 5, 5
France: French Baccalaureat or Option Internationale du Baccalauréat (OIB) : 13/20
Germany: Abitur : 1.8
Greece: Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio with Pan Hellenic exams : 18/20
Hong Kong: Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education : 544 in two electives and one core (all other subjects grade 3)
Hungary: Matura (Erettségi) : 4.5 overall
Iceland: Stúdentspróf : 7.5
India: Standard XII : 75% (CBSE, CISCE, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra & West Bengal boards), 80% (all other state boards)
Ireland: Irish Leaving Certificate : H1, H2, H2, H3, H3
Israel: Bagrut : Overall grade of 7, 80% with 3 subjects at 5-unit level
Italy: Diploma Consequito con L’Esame di Stato : 80% overall
Latvia: Certificate of General Secondary Education : 88% in four State subject exams
Lithuania: Brandos Atestatas : 8.5/10 and 90%, 85%, 85% in three State Exam
Malta: Advanced Matriculation Certificate : AB (Advanced) + BBB (Intermediate)
Netherlands: Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs : 7.5 overall with 8, 8, 7, 7 in four subjects
Norway: Vitnemål vidergaende opplaering : 4.3 overall
Poland: New Polish Matura : 75% in three Advanced Level subjects
Portugal: Diploma de Ensino Secundario : overall 17.5/20
Romania: Diploma de Bacalaureat : 8.5 overall
Singapore: Polytechnic Diploma (Nanyang, Ngee Ann, Singapore, Temasek and Republic Polytechnic) : GPA 3.3
Slovakia: Maturitná skúška / Maturita / Vysvedčenie o maturitnej skúške : four subjects at 1, 2, 2, 2
South Africa: National Senior Certificate : 77666
Spain: Curso de Orientación Universitaria / Título de Bachillerato : 7.5
Sweden: Slutbetyg / Examensbevis från Gymnasieskolan : A in 1200 credits and no grades below D / 18 / mainly B overall (MVG/VG)
Switzerland: Federal Maturity Certificate : 4.5
Tanzania: Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education : ACSE with BBB in 3 principle subjects
Information for prospective students from Tanzania
Trinidad and Tobago: CAPE : Six CAPE units with grade 2 (+two double-unit courses)
Turkey: Lise Diplomasi : 78-83% (depending on high school)
USA: High School Diploma plus ACT, SAT, or AP exams:
High School Diploma GPA 3.0 plus SAT 1280 or ACT 27 and 2 AP's at 4,4 or
High School Diploma GPA of 3.2 plus 2 AP's at 4,4 or
High School Diploma GPA 3.4 plus SAT 1300 or ACT 29 or
2-year Associate degree GPA 3.1
See undergraduate entry requirements and English language requirements for international and alternative entry requirements.
The BA Japanese programme provides you with the highest level of competence in all aspects of the written and spoken language, as well as an introduction to both classical and modern Japanese culture.
From the study of contemporary Japanese society, film and popular culture to pre-modern literature and history, the BA Japanese is suitable for both absolute beginners as well as those with some prior knowledge of the Japanese language.
If you already have prior knowledge of Japanese, you must sit a placement test in welcome week which will determine your entry level.
Further information about these placement tests will be sent out to successful applicants before the start of the academic year.
Students will spend the third year of study in Japan furthering their language proficiency and understanding of Japanese society and culture.
Students take 120 credits per year composed of core, compulsory and guided modules.
The objective of this module is to develop beyond pre-intermediate language competence in both productive (speaking/writing) and receptive (reading/ listening) skills in preparation for the year abroad in Japan in Year 3.
Besides the four skills mentioned above, students will develop knowledge of Japanese customs and cultures and the ability to engage with people appropriately, appreciating cultural understanding and diversity.
?Its focus is to consolidate their basic grammar and use it to speak and write about their experiences and opinions.
Students should also be able to read upper beginner level materials on various topics.
This module follows the J200 Intermediate Japanese A module and will develop further students' intermediate language competence in both productive (speaking/writing) and receptive (reading/ listening) skills in preparation for their year abroad in Japan in Year 3.
Besides the four skills mentioned above, students will also develop knowledge of Japanese customs and cultures that would help them to integrate into their relevant community in Japan and the ability to engage with people appropriately, appreciating intercultural understanding and diversity.
Its focus is to consolidate their pre-intermediate level knowledge of grammatical structures and vocabulary so that they can use them to read and write intermediate level materials on various topics.
Students should also be able to communicate in situations which they might frequently encounter when they go to Japan.
J100 entry take 60 credits of language
This module aims to develop a basic elementary level of interactional competence by using productive (speaking/writing) and receptive (reading/listening) skills in Japanese on concrete and familiar everyday topics.
In addition to the four skills mentioned above, acquiring transferable skills such as translation to and from Japanese/English also form a part of learning Japanese at this module.
Students are also expected to learn essential customs and Japanese cultures through the engagement of language activities and appreciate the importance of intercultural understanding and diversity in everyday contexts and develop cultural awareness in Japanese cultures.
On completion of this module, students should be able to convey very simple information about themselves, their family and friends.
This module aims to develop an elementary level of interactional competence by using productive (speaking/writing) and receptive (reading/listening) skills in Japanese on predictable and familiar everyday topics.
Students are also expected to learn appropriate customs and Japanese cultures through the engagement of language activities and appreciate the importance of intercultural understanding and diversity in everyday contexts and develop cultural awareness in Japanese culture.
They will learn to engage in everyday activities in simple Japanese, such as describing future plans, exchanging direct information, expressing requests, basic opinions or preferences about everyday topics in immediate environment by using appropriate speech styles.
On completion of this module, students should be able to exchange simple information about themselves, their family and friends in more detail with reasoning or explanation and compare different information.
Japanese manga and anime, as well other popular products, have firmly taken hold of global popular culture.
In addition, Japanese food, such as sushi and bento have become a staple for many busy people in London and elsewhere in the world, leading to the image of Japan as a cool country with great food.
The Japanese government has therefore proclaimed the Cool Japan initiative in the effort to brand Japan and lift it to the public consciousness around the world.
However, many of these images are formed by the media, some within Japan, some outside of Japan.
Looking at Japan via the various channels of its consumption – manga, anime, media and food – this module aims to analyse how the various aspects of our ‘imagination of Japan’ come together, working outhow some of our stereotypes are formed.
It will enable student to understand how the concept of ‘Japan’ came about.
Students thinking of writing an ISP on popular culture/media or any other topic in relation to the topic of the module in their final year are strongly encouraged to enrol in it.
This module supports students with their transition to Higher Education.
It delves into the study of Humanities, with a focus on questions concerning the colonial genealogy of Humanities and the ways of decolonising Humanities, and skills acquired in the various disciplines in the college.
Students learn to identify and describe the skills they acquire in this module and during their studies in the Humanities.
Students are introduced to research, reading, listening, writing, performance and communication skills through multiple disciplinary lenses, addressing the planetary questions of this age.
They compare different disciplinary approaches and are encouraged to reflect on interdisciplinary approaches to studying the Humanities, grounded in different regions.
This enables students to make more informed decisions in the designing of their individual educational journey.
Students practice their skills and reflect on their skills through real-world projects, drawing on critical content from all disciplines in the College of Humanities at SOAS.
This is the first of a pair of modules that introduce students to some of the major topics and approaches in the study of East Asian civilization, from prehistorical times to the early modern era.
Taking a thematic approach, East Asian Civilizations A addresses the key issues of prehistory, rulership, religion, the world of sinographs, and otherness in China, Korea, and Japan.
Together, these units give students a grounding in some of the major commonalities and intersections that exist across East Asia through to the early modern period, while also allowing them to see how local dynamics and priorities affected social and cultural forms in each state.
Take 30 credits from J100 List A
This module introduces students to key topics in global linguistic diversity, enabling students to put into a global context the language, region or culture that their degree programme focuses on.
This module provides a basic introduction to linguistic analysis, giving students the tools to think analytically and formally about the structure, meaning and sound patterns involved in language.
The focus is on the way in which data leads to questions, which lead to answers, which lead to further questions.
We examine a wide range of core topics from different grammatical systems of the world's languages, focusing on African, Asian and Middle Eastern language datasets.
On successful completion of the module students will:
•	Understand the different tools and methods used in linguistic analysis •	Show familiarity with a variety of datasets from a range of typologically different languages •	Show familiarity with the most frequent grammatical phenomena in the world’s languages •	Provide basic analyses of grammatical structures from a range of familiar and unfamiliar languages •	Provide translations into formal logic of simple syntactic structures
This module introduces students to the history of the part of the world that was profoundly influenced by the Chinese cultural sphere through a gendered lens.
Chronologically, it covers the periods of early state formation and the rise of the first unified empires, the centuries of political and religious plurality of the first centuries of the common era, and the heyday of Chinese civilization following the 'reunification' in the Sui/Tang and the social and economic transformations of the Song dynasty.
We will look at this history through the experience of women from different walks of life and study how women were represented in different kinds of texts, from the Classics to biographies of exemplary women and tales of the strange.
This perspective will provide a focused and engaging way to learn about the ideological foundations and hierarchical and patriarchal social structures that supported the expanding Chinese states.
This course introduces selected popular music cultures of the world, examining case studies from Asia, Africa and the Middle East, as well as diasporic and globalised styles.
Each lecture will introduce: representative musical styles with their characteristic sounds, instruments and forms; the cultural contexts within which they have developed; relationships between music and global and local forces including political power structures, gender, nationalism, tourism and globalisation; the roles of musicians and those working in music industries; circumstances surrounding musical performance, recording and dissemination of music.
This module will examine the social and historical context of the recent boom in South Korea's popular culture, both domestically and internationally.
It will look at the role of rapid economic development and the transition from dictatorship to democracy in providing the conditions for the creation of a ruthless and highly successful system of cultural production.
This module takes its title from the book China in Ten Words by contemporary Chinese novelist Yu Hua.
It is designed to introduce students to a range of key concepts in the study of China and Chinese cultures.
The second of a pair of modules, East Asian Civilizations B continues with a thematic approach to the study of premodern East Asia, with units on Buddhism, warfare, and gender, law, and hierarchy.
The structure of the module encourages students to compare the civilizations of China, Korea, and Japan so that they can see their commonalities and intersections as well as identify the particularities of each that arose from local contexts.
Take three modules from J200 List A
If J200 was completed in Y1, please select Japanese 4.
In this module, students will learn how to communicate effectively and appropriately in a variety of contexts, styles, and modes.
Students engage in communication on both personal and social topics, using complex oral and written texts.
They also learn Japanese customs and culture and compare them with those they are familiar with, appreciating the importance of intercultural understanding and diversity.
In this module, students will learn how to communicate effectively and confidently in a variety of contexts, styles, and modes.
Students engage in communication on both concrete and abstract topics, using complex oral and written texts.
They develop a deeper understanding of Japanese customs and culture and compare them with those they are familiar with, appreciating the importance of intercultural understanding, diversity, and global citizenship.
The module is designed to offer a critical overview of changes occurring in the late 20th century Japanese culture and society.
The module will prepare students for the year abroad, by providing an overview of issues facing contemporary Japanese society.
Available to all students and subject to student's language level, placement test and/or convenors' approval
The primary objectives of the course are: to give students a basic understanding of the linguistics of the Arabic dialects, and of the theory and practice of Arabic dialectology; to give them a solid foundation for future in-depth study of Egyptian and/or Levantine Arabic; and to give them the tools to enable them to independently acquire communicative competence in other Arabic dialects they might encounter in the course of their studies and beyond.
This module examines issues surrounding the practice and activity of translation and offers students the opportunity to develop their skills and methods in translating texts from Korean into English.
The syllabus combines practical translation exercises with critical analyses of context, strategies, methods, and their socio-political and cultural implications.
Through weekly seminars, the module convenor will introduce topical issues and students will be assigned different text types in Korean to translate into English to discuss in class.
Informal presentations will form the basis for group discussions on translation method and technique, and for sharing constructive feedback.
Diligent assignment preparations and active seminar participation will also help students expand their knowledge of Korean grammatical structures, text styles, vocabulary, idioms and expressions.
Please note that students must have advanced language proficiency in Korean to follow the module content (see Prerequisites).
This module will introduce students to the history of Chinese characters and their use in Korea as hanja.
Students will learn how characters are formed and how to use hanja dictionaries.
From week two, each lecture will introduce a set of hanja characters related to a certain topic and students will be required to achieve both passive and active knowledge of these characters.
The material for each week will consist of exercises prepared by the convenor and a text that exemplifies the use of the characters in question.
This module is an introduction to Classical and Literary Chinese, the standard written language of China from around the 5th century BCE through to the early 20th century CE.
The majority of this course will be based on reading, translating, and discussing selections from some of the most important philosophical texts from the Spring and Autumn era (770-481 BCE) through the Han period (206 BCE-220 CE) – written in the ‘Classical Chinese’ emulated by later writers.
We will discuss grammatical and philological issues primarily in English and most of our translation work will be from Classical Chinese into English.
This module examines issues surrounding the practice and activity of translation, and offers students the opportunity to develop their skills and methods in translating texts from Chinese into English.
This module aims to develop and consolidate students' advanced Japanese language knowledge and skills, including listening, speaking, reading and writing skills.
It also aims to allow students to develop advanced mediation skills both from English to Japanese and from Japanese to English.
The focus is on developing advanced transferable skills around language and communication that can be used in society and will increase students' employability.
This module examines issues surrounding the practice and activity of translation, and offers students the opportunity to develop their skills and methods in translating texts from Japanese into English.
This module aims to develop and consolidate students' advanced Korean language knowledge and skills, including listening, speaking, reading and writing skills.
It also aims to allow students to develop advanced mediation skills both from English to Korean and from Korean to English.
The module aims to develop students’ language skills through grammar work, translation, prose composition, and conversation at the lower-intermediate level.
Previous knowledge of the language is consolidated and developed by further class work on linguistic structures, sentence construction, and conversation.
Students are introduced to a wide range of language using diverse materials from contexts such as journalism, literature, recorded conversations, social media and so forth.
Regular homework tasks reinforce the class learning, encouraging students to read, write and speak the language with more accuracy and confidence.
The module aims to develop students’ language skills through grammar work, translation, prose composition, and conversation at the intermediate level.
Chinese for Business This language application module is designed for advanced Chinese learners seeking to develop well-rounded language skills.
Under the teacher’s guidance, students will conduct independent research, participate in peer discussions, and utilize various generative AI tools to complete assignments  in Chinese.
By working with AI tools and engaging in language practice activities—such as reading, discussions, translation, listening to guest speakers, and presenting their own projects—students will enhance their language skills comprehensively.
Additionally, the module aims to cultivate critical skills in the use of AI tools, preparing students for future research and professional work.
This is a basic introductory language acquisition module for absolute beginners in the written and spoken language.
The module covers several basic constructions of the language, enabling students to acquire basic skills in reading, writing, comprehension and speaking.
At the end of this module, successful students will be able to function at Lower A1 of CEFR or Band 1 of HSK.
This module aims to introduce students more basic vocabulary and grammar points at beginner and elementary level.
At the end of the semester, successful students are expected to be able to read and write simple texts and communicate on basic everyday topics and function at A1 of CEFR or Band 2 of HSK.
In this module, students will learn how to communicate in very simple Japanese on concrete and familiar everyday topics.
Both spoken and written Japanese will be taught from the very first day.
On completion of this module, students should be able to convey very simple information about themselves, their family and friends, their belongings etc., and ask questions about others.
They will also learn to socialise with Japanese-speaking people in familiar everyday contexts.
From the beginning, they will be exposed to Japanese cultures as reflected in various situations and expressions used therein.
Korean 1A is available to students on a wide variety of programmes across SOAS.
This module aims to offer opportunities for students to acquire introductory/basic communicative knowledge and skills needed to participate in the target language community so that they can apply these in the context of their academic or professional needs, regardless of their degree programme.
Successful students will gain the ability to read and write short simple texts, and communicate on simple everyday topics.
Korean 1B is available to students on a wide variety of programmes across SOAS.
Successful students will gain the ability to read and write short simple sentences consisting of past and future tense, and honorifics, and communicate on familiar topics concerning their everyday life.
This is a basic language acquisition module for students who have already studied the Language A equivalent in the previous term, or who have equivalent knowledge.
Students are therefore assumed to have some basic knowledge of the language or its script.
This module develops knowledge of some of the several basic constructions of the language, enabling students to develop their skills in reading, writing, comprehension and speaking.
Successful students will gain the ability to read and write simple texts, and communicate on everyday topics.
Emphasis will be placed on good pronunciation and on the social and linguistic conventions of everyday conversation.
This is an introductory language acquisition module for absolute beginners in the written and spoken language; students are not assumed to have any previous knowledge of the language or its script.
This is a basic language acquisition module for students who have already studied the language 1A equivalent in the previous term, or who have equivalent knowledge.
This is a basic introductory language acquisition module for absolute beginners in the written and spoken language; students are not assumed to have any previous knowledge of the language or its script.
It develops knowledge of some of the several basic constructions of the language, enabling students to develop their skills in reading, writing, comprehension and speaking.
This module covers several basic constructions of the language, enabling students to acquire basic skills in reading, writing, comprehension and speaking.
This module develops knowledge of several basic constructions of the language, enabling students to develop their skills in reading, writing, comprehension and speaking.
This is a basic introductory language acquisition module for absolute beginners in the written and spoken language; students are not assumed to have any previous knowledge of the language.
Successful students will gain the ability to read and write short simple texts and communicate on simple everyday topics.
Persian 1 B
Hebrew.
Hebrew 1 B
Bengali Language 1
Bengali Language 1 B
Hindi Language.
The module covers all the major tenses and significant grammatical constructions of the language, enabling successful students to develop their skills in reading, writing, comprehension and speaking.
Urdu Language.
This is a basic introductory language acquisition module for absolute beginners in the the language; students are not assumed to have any previous knowledge of the language or its script.
The module covers several basic constructions of the language, enabling students to acquire basic skills in reading, writing,and comprehension.
Successful students will gain the ability to read simple original texts and to write short simple sentences.
Sanskrit Language 1 B
Indonesian Language.
Vietnamese Language.
Burmese Language 1 A
Burmese Language 1 B
Thai Language.
Arabic 1 B
The course provides students with intermediate knowledge of Turkish and practice of using Turkish in a variety of everyday and more specialised situations, including the understanding and expression of opinions and different points of view.
Texts for study are selected from newspapers and magazines, scholarly articles and literary works (short stories and excerpts from novels).
The course provides teaching and learning of intermediate level Turkish language with emphasis on practical written and spoken Turkish.
The course covers complex points of word and sentence structure as well as textual relations in Turkish writing and discourse.
Ottoman Turkish Language A
Ottoman Turkish Language B
The module provides for the teaching and learning of upper-intermediate level Persian language with emphasis on practical as well as nuanced written and spoken Persian.
The course introduces complex sentence structures including conditional sentences, as well as more use of abstract or technical terminology in Persian writing and discourse.
By the end of this module students should be able to relate detailed experiences, as well as discuss and understand concrete and abstract topics, in both spoken and written language with ease and confidence.
The course provides for the teaching and learning of lower-intermediate level Persian language with emphasis on practical written and spoken Persian.
The course introduces complex sentence structures including relative clauses, as well as more focused use of idiomatic structures in Persian writing and discourse.
By the end of this module students should be able to describe experiences, events, plans, hopes and concerns in both spoken and written language with ease and confidence.
Arabic 5 A
This module aims to utilize students' knowledge of syntax to develop their ability in comprehension and grammatical analysis as well as composition and translation into Arabic.
The module is based on the reading and discussion of three types of written language: various literary texts, Arabic journalism and selected texts for translation.
The module also caters for the oral aspect of language learning.
This is a high advanced language acquisition course.
This is a lower advanced language acquisition course that will reinforce competence in grammar and syntax, widen active vocabulary, and simultaneously develop listening and speaking skills.
Letter writing skills will be introduced.
Oral competence is developed in conversation classes and by using audio-video material.
This module is a continuation of Arabic 1 B.
It completes the coverage of the grammar and syntax of Modern Standard Arabic at an intermediate level and trains students in reading, comprehending and writing with the help of a dictionary more complex Arabic sentences and passages.
This module is a continuation of Arabic 2 A.
This is an intermediate language acquisition module, and builds on knowledge acquired in Arabic 1A, Arabic 1B, Arabic 2A, and Arabic 2B.
Students study authentic Arabic texts of various writing genres and gain further knowledge of grammar (syntax and structure).
The module develops students' competence equally in reading, writing, listening and speaking skills.
This is an upper intermediate language acquisition module that builds on Arabic 3A, providing students with a firmer foundation in Arabic grammar, and training them in the active use of the language through writing exercises that draw on and reinforce a number of skills including knowledge of grammar, syntax, phraseology and general and specialised terminology.
Writing skills will also be further built through targeted translation exercises.
The module also includes an oral component where students are trained in speaking the colloquial register of the language
This module offers training in practical translation from and into Swahili.
Students will acquire advanced skills in translation by familiarising them with the process, techniques and strategies of translating.
Students will be able to develop their abilities to a high level of proficiency while acquiring valuable practical experience in translation.
This module combines an intermediate-advanced approach to Arabic dialectology with instruction in two different Arabic dialects at an intermediate level.
It is specifically intended to prepare students for a period of study in an Arabic-speaking country.
Each week students have a one-hour lecture on the Arabic dialects from a theoretical point of view, a one-hour lesson focusing on listening comprehension, and two hours of tuition in Arabic conversation.
Where teaching capacity allows, students will have the opportunity to choose which of two widely spoken Arabic dialects (typically Egyptian and Levantine) they wish to focus on in the conversation classes.
The primary objectives of the module are: to give students an in-depth understanding of the linguistics of the Arabic dialects, and of the theory and practice of Arabic dialectology; to bring them to an intermediate level in the dialect they choose to focus on; and to give them the tools to enable them to independently acquire communicative competence in other Arabic dialects they might encounter in the course of their studies and beyond.
This is an intermediate language acquisition module that complements Arabic 3 A and B, and/or Arabic 4 A and B, by familiarising students with pre-modern genres and styles of Arabic writing through reading authentic classical Arabic biography, history and travel.
Course readings and discussions are guided by, but not exhaustive of, or exclusive to, the following major themes:
1.
Excerpts from Arabic biography Sira, ?adith and biographical literature.
2.
Classical Arabic travel writing, including geographical exploration, pilgrimage, the journey in search of knowledge, and adventures at sea and in the desert.
Classical Arabic accounts of cities, regions, holy sites and scholarly networks and assemblies.
3.
Universal histories and regional histories.
The module will be focused on the teaching and learning of Persian language at lower-advanced level with emphasis on practically competent aural and oral skills, as well as nuanced writing ability and dexterity in reading comprehension.
The course will explore complex grammar of formal modern Persian alongside vernacular use of the language through practicing and performing a variety of tasks such as translations of intricate texts, composition and gathering of information from a wide range of material and demonstrating confident spoken interaction and production.
This course introduces students to the academic study of the core language of Zoroastrian religion and philosophies.
It will enable them to assess primary sources critically and assess views voiced in the secondary literature.
This module is concerned with Avestan, the language of the earliest Zoroastrian texts.
Building on Avestan 1, it is designed to provide students with a clear understanding of the basic principles of the Avestan language in a way that enables them to translate simple Avestan texts and to analyse their grammar.
Students who complete the course successfully will be able to handle simple primary sources of the Zoroastrian religion in the original Avestan and to assess critically translations made by various scholars.
This module is for students who have successfully completed Chinese 2B or equivalent to progress in the learning of Chinese.
It will introduce more vocabulary, grammar points, and sentence structures at higher elementary level.
At the end of the semester, successful students are expected to be able to read and write short texts, communicate on everyday topics; and function at Lower B1 of CEFR or Lower Band 5 of HSK.
This module is for students who have successfully completed Chinese 3A or equivalent to progress in the learning of Chinese.
It will introduce more vocabulary, grammar points, sentence structures and linking words at lower intermediate level.
At the end of the semester, successful students are expected to be able to read and write short texts, communicate on familiar topics; and function at B1 of CEFR or Band 5 of HSK.
This module is for students who have successfully completed Chinese 3B or equivalent to progress in the learning of Chinese.
It will consolidate grammar points, sentence structures and linking words at lower intermediate level and enable students to progress to intermediate level.
At the end of the semester, successful students are expected to be able to read and write short texts, communicate on familiar topics; and function at Lower B2 of CEFR or Lower Band 6 of HSK.
This module is for students who have successfully completed Chinese 4A or equivalent.
It will introduce more vocabulary, set expressions and linking words enabling students to progress in reading, writing and speaking from lower intermediate level to intermediate level.
Upon successful completion of this module, students are expected to be able to read and write texts on a wide range of subjects; interact with native speakers on familiar topics with a degree of fluency and function at B2 of CEFR or Band 6 of HSK.
In this module, students will learn to communicate in simple tasks that require a direct social exchange of information on relating to matters of immediate needs, events, activities and experiences.
Students also practice in describing aspects of their background and matters in area of their immediate and academic interests.
The module aims to develop elementary level of interactional competence by using productive (speaking/writing) and receptive (reading/listening) skills in Japanese.
In addition to four skills mentioned above, acquiring transferable skills such as translation to and from Japanese/English also form a part of learning Japanese at this module.
They will also learn to engage in everyday activities in simple Japanese such as talking about self, talking about holidays or talking about future plans and receiving and making invitations.
In this module, students will learn to communicate in relatively simple tasks that require a social exchange of information relating to matters of immediate needs, events, activities, and experiences.
The module aims to develop higher elementary level of interactional competence by using productive (speaking/writing) and receptive (reading/writing) skills in Japanese.
The objective of this module is to prepare students to understand the main points on familiar matters regularly encountered in contexts such as university, leisure, etc.
Students will also learn fundamental Japanese customs and cultures and appreciate the importance of intercultural understanding and diversity.
The objective of this module is to prepare students to understand the main points on familiar matters encountered in contexts such as university, leisure, etc.
It builds on knowledge gained in the pre-intermediate level.
Students will also learn fundamental Japanese customs and cultures and develop intercultural understanding and diversity.
In this module, students will learn to communicate in some simple and slightly complex tasks that require a direct social exchange of information on relating to matters of immediate needs, events, activities and experiences.
Students will also develop some integrated language skills for effective everyday communication.
This module is aligned with CEFR (A2) and the International Standard Curriculum for Korean language (Level 2).
In this module, students will learn to communicate effectively and fluently in a range of slightly complex tasks that require a direct social exchange of information on relating to matters of immediate needs, events, activities and experiences.
Students will also enhance their integrated language skills for effective everyday communication further.
All rounded skills will be demonstrated in various language tasks that students produce to consolidate the learning process independently or in groups.
During the course, student will also develop knowledge and understanding, intellectual skills, practical skills, key/transferable skills.
Students will acquire comprehensive knowledge of Korean with interactive and creative language learning modes in diverse formats.
This module is designed for students who completed Korean 3A module or achieved equivalent to lower intermediate levels previously.
It aims to help students further develop their language skills and intercultural awareness.
This intermediate-level course prepares students to engage in more extended and natural conversations in Korean, also helps students to understand moderately complex texts relatable and learning experiences are integrated to develop natural interactions in Korean.
This module is for students who have successfully completed Chinese 1B or equivalent to progress in the learning of Chinese.
It will introduce more basic vocabulary, grammar points, and sentence structures at elementary level.
At the end of the semester, successful students are expected to be able to read and write simple texts and communicate on basic everyday topics and function at Lower A2 of CEFR or Band 3 of HSK.
This module is for students who have successfully completed Chinese 2A or equivalent to progress in the learning of Chinese.
At the end of the semester, successful students are expected to be able to read and write simple texts and communicate on basic everyday topics and function at A2 of CEFR or Band 4 of HSK.
Take a minimum of 2 modules and a maximum of 4 modules from List B
This module introduces students to the creatures and worlds of East Asian mythology that have had a powerful hold on the cultural imagination in the past and the present.
From sacred mountains and warring monkey kings to tiger spirits, demons, and restless souls, we will examine the origins of various myths, their sources and evolution over time, as well as their historical and cultural significance.
Through a thematic approach that focuses on Sacred Geographies, Animals and Mythology, and Ghosts and the Afterlife, students will learn about influential myths that animated China, Korea, and Japan as well as gain an appreciation of how they differed in each society.
The module is designed to offer a critical overview of East Asian cinema, and its interregional flows from the beginning to the present day.
It will be looking at how actors and directors travel across the region.
The module is designed to provide an overview how imperialism from within East Asia itself as well as the outside, has shaped the region.
This module allows students to synthesise their learning in a single project that demonstrates their fulfilment of the programme’s learning outcomes.
It integrates their academic knowledge with experiences beyond the classroom and combines their developing knowledge, skills, and personal interests.
The project is conceived, designed, and carried out independently, with support and supervision.
15-60 credits from List D
This module provides students with a critical understanding of the development of contemporary musical styles, scenes, and listening practices in 20th and 21st century China, Japan and Korea.
We explore transnational flows of sounds, commodities and ideas; digital mediation and creativity; DIY and underground scenes and mainstream markets; focusing on the relationships between music and political power, national and local identities, gender and performance, idols and fans.
This course is designed to develop students’ understanding of key moments in modern Japanese history from the collapse of the Tokugawa hegemony (the 1850s) to the end of World War II (1945) in regional and global context.
It examines social and political epochs such as the rise of the Meiji government, the social and political contexts of modernisation, the process of nation-building, the establishment of an overseas empire and the rise of militarism, and the Sino-Japanese and Pacific Wars.
The complex linguistic system serving the marking of social relations in Japanese is examined in this course through studies in the sociolinguistic, pragmatic and indexical traditions.
Students are guided to go beyond a superficial reading of linguistic meanings and appreciate the broad sociocultural significance of keigo (honorifics) and other ‘politeness’, identity and relational markers.
This module offers an overview of key works and themes in modern Japanese literature.
By exposing students to methods, cultural movements and texts, the module aims to showcase and problematise the multiplicity of literary voices that are part of the Japanese literary domain.
For this reason, while the module provides students with the theories, knowledge, and skills to analyse and discuss fundamental texts in Japan’s literary history, it also considers works that articulate the experiences of marginal" or peripheral identities, with topics ranging from modernism to queer writing, from atomic bomb literature to that written by ethnic minorities."
Focusing primarily on the Asia-Pacific War, this module critically explores the multiple ways in which memories have been created, circulated, and consumed in Japan, the Koreas, and the Sinophone area.
Choose at least 15 credits from List C
The module will give an introduction to pre-modern Japanese grammar and expressions as well as providing an overview of its relevance in the context of contemporary Japan.
Students will read a variety of texts from the Heian, Kamakura, Muromachi and Tokugawa periods.
Most modules are taught through a combination of lectures and tutorial delivered across the week.
Lectures are led by an academic while tutorials are sessions in which students are expected to present reports and take a lead in discussions.
Depending on the size of the class, some intermediate and advanced level modules are less strictly divided between a formal lecture and a tutorial discussion, and instead, the topic is briefly introduced by the lecturer, followed by a seminar discussion.
Advanced level modules, which are usually taught in one two-hour bloc, often take this format.
The assessment procedures involve coursework assignments, tests and unseen examinations.
They provide students with opportunities to demonstrate their knowledge and understanding of the content and systems taught in lectures, tutorials and the literature.
All full-time undergraduate programmes consist of 120 credits per year, in modules of 60, 30 or 15 credits.
They are taught over 10 or 20 weeks.
The programme structure shows which modules are taught over one term or the full year.
It also shows which modules are compulsory and which are optional.
Most of this will be independent study.
All students spend their third year in Japan at one of the Japanese universities listed below, following successful completion of their second year.
Students will study a combination of language and non-language modules, and must pass 75% of them in order to proceed to Year 4.
Please note that not all universities will have places available every year, and that each university has a limited number of places.
Students indicate preferences, but final allocation will be determined by the department.
See undergraduate fees for further details.
Graduates from the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures develop competencies in intercultural awareness, analysis and communication.
Demand for specialists with advanced proficiency in the languages of China, Japan and Korea has significantly increased in recent years, and graduates with these skills are highly sought after by employers.
Recent graduates have been hired by organisations including:
Dr Satona Suzuki is currently a senior lecturer in Japanese and Modern Japanese History at SOAS University of London.
BA Chinese and Politics student Jess Keighley describes her experience studying at SOAS, her year abroad in Taiwan and her time competing at the international Chinese Bridge Competition.
Since graduating with a first-class BA in Linguistics, Karolin Abbas’s career shows how a linguistics degree opens doors to unexpected and impactful careers.
Marjan shares his transformative experience studying Arabic in Jordan for a year abroad, from settling in to exploring the rich culture and history of the country and making friends from around the world.
As part of this project we will run two writing workshops in Kenya for Early Career Researchers in linguistics to work with experienced editors, improve writing skills and strengthen scholarly networks.
Variation in Swahili: contact, change and identity investigates different ways in which Swahili is spoken, how its varieties are influenced by other languages, and what this means for speakers and their identities.
Examining transnational film practices in China against the backdrop of the shifting global order from 1949 to 1989.
A biography a town and the diverse people that made it, from Korean workers to Russian engineers and Japanese scientists.
Exploring how Islam and Muslims are represented and perceived on UK university campuses.
Exploring multilingualism’s revolutionary potential and creative force in language, literature, thought and the visual arts.
Countering the identification of world literature with English by highlighting the multilingualism and the many factors that contribute to regional and transnational literary fields.
A far-reaching and sustained study of key authors, texts, and topics from around the world and throughout history.
Investigating the phenomenon of "prominent internal possessors" from a theoretical and cross-linguistic perspective.
The BARAZA Annual Swahili Studies Conference is a 1-day gathering addresses the language, literature, translation, culture, philosophy, and diaspora of the Swahili-speaking peoples of the world.
BA Korean at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/mba-30:
Scholarships/bursaries available.
See below for more details.
International applicants to the MBA 30 course must fulfil the same English language requirements that are required for international ODL students .
The MBA 30 is a 4-week ‘mini MBA’ course that aims to equip students with the fundamental knowledge and to expose them to practical experiences to design and run businesses in an intense study format consisting of two days of on campus classes and 6 half-days of online classes.
Originated by registered charity Black British Initiative in association with the Stephen Lawrence Day Foundation, the programme recognises race is a protected characteristic under the 2010 Equalities act and is designed to address issues of equity and equality.
This mini-MBA is unlike anything you’ve seen before—a dynamic, fast-paced course designed to deliver the most essential and practical business insights in record time, recognising time and costs are barriers to entry for micro and small businesses.
Offered by the School of Finance and Management at SOAS University of London, the program boasts world-class academics and an array of distinguished guest speakers from top-tier companies and consulting firms.
This isn’t just theory—it’s a transformative experience, grounded in the challenges Black entrepreneurs face and designed to break through those barriers.
You’ll master leadership, marketing, and decision-making while gaining razor-sharp analytical skills that will help you stay ahead of market trends.
With a focus on strategy and innovation, this program arms you with the tools to scale your business while building a network of invaluable contacts.
You’ll walk away with more than just new knowledge.
The MBA 30 delivers:
This program combines academic rigor with real-world applications.
Supported by prestigious sponsors like NatWest, Vodafone, and others, MBA 30 sets a powerful example of how corporate and educational worlds can unite to uplift talent and drive change.
Take this unique opportunity to rewrite your business story.
The MBA 30 is about action, growth, and community.
Apply now and begin a transformative journey that will shape your business for years to come.
The MBA 30 course consists of sessions with SOAS academics and invited guest speakers over the course of 8 days over 4 weeks.
The sessions are ordinarily taught on Mondays and Thursdays (save on holidays).
The first and the last days are taught on campus, while the others online.
Below is a high-level description of the course outline:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges-schools-and-departments/college-humanities/school-languages-cultures-and-linguistics:
Our expertise in the languages and cultures of Africa, the Near and Middle East, and Asia, will open the doors to some of the most economically vibrant, and culturally exciting regions of the world through the study of literature, TV and film, food, fashion, and computer games.
We see knowledge of the languages of these regions as central to our understanding of culture.
Our remit also, therefore, includes the study of linguistics.
Our Departmental Centres of Translation Studies, of Islamic Studies, and of Cultural, Literary and Postcolonial Studies are home to postgraduate taught programmes and research degrees, focusing on literature, religion, cinema and popular culture.
The School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics offers unparalleled disciplinary expertise and access to language study for anyone interested in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our world-class scholars lead their fields in the study of literature and film, linguistics and poetry, and our students graduate from their language programmes prepared to work all over the world.
If you have ever wanted to understand culture, history, and society in depth, or if you dream of working in Africa, the Near and Middle East, and Asia, our degrees will provide you with all the tools you need.
We offer a full range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes on Africa and the African diaspora, the Middle East, China, Japan, Korea, South Asia and Southeast Asia that will provide you with a wealth of transferable skills, paving the way for exciting career opportunities with both domestic and international companies operating in the regions we teach and research.
Our degrees offer both intensive and less intensive language study options, allowing you to gain an advanced level of proficiency in Chinese, Japanese, Korean, or Arabic, or in a language you might not find at other universities such as Swahili, Amharic, Indonesian, Hindi, Persian, or Turkish.
Our four-year undergraduate degrees and intensive language MA degrees include periods of study at one of our partner universities, providing a rich, immersive learning experience.
Academic expertise at the School covers a range of topics and disciplines.
Research at the School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics is driven by a focus on the languages, cultures and texts of the regions on which we work and we engage in the study of literature, linguistics, cinema, visual culture, community engagement, medical humanities, gender studies and a range of interdisciplinary concerns.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/term-enrolment:
See our timetables below for the full list of scheduled courses.
Arabic short courses timetable for language centre courses, SOAS University of London
Mandarin Chinese short courses timetable for language centre courses, SOAS University of London
Japanese short courses timetable for language centre courses, SOAS University of London
Korean short courses timetable for language centre courses, SOAS University of London
Timetable for short courses: Amharic, Bengali, Filipino (Tagalog), Hindi, Indonesian, Persian, Sanskrit, Swahili, Tamil, Tibetan, Thai, Turkish, and Vietnamese.
Bengali Beginners online course at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/soas-language-centre:
SOAS Language Centre offers a comprehensive range of language opportunities designed to make language learning practical, fun, and accessible to people at all levels of ability.
Courses are open to all adults aged 18 and over, students and non-students.
Learners 16+ are also welcome, subject to parental consent.
If you're looking for focused, flexible learning, we offer one-to-one or small group sessions tailored to learners’ needs, goals, and schedules.
Tailored tuition in one-to-one or small group classes at the Language Centre, SOAS University of London.
Teachers from the SOAS Language Centre share their favourite tips for learning a language and sticking to it, from building confidence and setting goals to getting creative in your everyday practice.
MSc student Alex is working towards becoming fluent in Chinese (Mandarin) and hopes to use his new communication skills when travelling and working.
Thailand is known for its whole host of different festivals, with Loy Krathong being one of the biggest celebrations of them all.
We've put together a brief overview of the festival and how it's celebrated in Thailand.
Enhance your language teaching skills with our CPD course (SOAS Language Centre)
Arabic (Levantine) Advanced online course at SOAS university of london
Japanese Pre-Intermediate online course at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/how-apply-short-language-courses:
Enrolling now for our October - December 2025 courses.
Please see our term enrolment for our scheduled courses.
All complete beginners can book Beginners 1 courses directly via the online store .
As you already have some language knowledge, to assess your level please request an informal language placement test with a Language Specialist who can advise on which class may be best for you.
You are advised to complete the placement test request as soon as possible to avoid disappointment.
To request an placement test, please complete the relevant form:
To request an placement test, please complete and return the relevant form:
Once you have been recommended a class, you may enrol and pay in any of the following ways:
Students are required to first check their level using the course overview/structure information on the language short course pages .
You can book Beginners 1, Beginners 2 and Beginners 3 course levels via the online store once enrolment opens.
Please note that students are responsible for checking their level prior to enrolling on any course.
If you are still unsure, please contact us .
Students enrolled in the current term will receive an email with a rejoining link to the next term of study.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/soas-alphawood-postgraduate-diploma-asian-art:
The SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art at SOAS University of London offers a unique programme renowned for its excellence.
We lead you on a journey of object-based study through lectures and contributions from a wide range of leading scholars, curators, and art market professionals.
We have a formal association with the British Museum and the Victoria and Albert Museum, which allows us to offer exceptional access to the collections and curatorial expertise of both institutions.
The Postgraduate Diploma will appeal to all those with a serious interest in Asian art, regardless of your personal, professional or academic background.
It is also a proven pathway to further postgraduate study in Asian art and careers in museums, the commercial art world and academia.
Students can study with us in-person, online or a combination of the two.
For more information, please view our prospectus:
PDF document, 25.74MB
Candidates are expected to hold a good undergraduate degree in any subject or equivalent experience.
Prior knowledge of Asian art history or archaeology is not a requirement, though candidates are expected to have an interest in the area.
All international applicants must be able to show that their English is of a high enough standard to successfully engage with and complete the course.
Find out more about SOAS' English language requirements including details regarding exemptions and alternative forms of evidence.
Please apply by completing our online application form .
You must also submit:
The SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art offers ten immersive modules, each eleven weeks in length, either in-person or online.
You can take any number or combination of modules and you can begin the programme in September, January or May.
Our in-person modules require full-time attendance in London and feature on-site visits to museum galleries and reserve collections.
Our online modules are accessible from anywhere in the world and also allow you to study alongside other commitments.
They feature bespoke contributions from museum curators bringing the artworks of museum galleries and reserve collections to you virtually.
We also offer three supporting courses.
Analysing & Exploring the Arts and an Independent Study Project in Asian Art History are available both in person and online and run alongside each term.
Asian Art in the Museum is an intensive two-week, in-person immersion in object-based study of Asian art run during SOAS’ Summer School each July, based at our London campus.
The SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art programme offers two qualifications:
The supporting course Analysing and Exploring the Arts is compulsory for both qualifications and will be taken alongside your first module.
You can select either the Independent Study Project in Asian Art History or Asian Art in the Museum as your second supporting course.
Fees are calculated based on a single in-person module fee of £5,770 and a single online module fee of £3,375 and can be paid on a module-by-module basis.
A single module fee includes the two supporting courses, Analysing and Exploring the Arts and an Independent Study Project in Asian Art History.
Selecting Asian Art in the Museum as a supporting course, as an alternative to the Independent Study Project, requires a supplementary fee of £950 (£970 in 2025/26).
It can be possible to combine online modules with in-person modules as part of this programme (subject to visa requirements).
This will result in a variation to the above stated total fees, which we will be happy to discuss with you prior to or on receipt of an application.
Fees may be subject to annual increases.
Successful applicants must secure their place on each module by making a £500 deposit payment, which will be credited towards your module fee.
The remaining module fee must be paid four weeks prior to each module start date.
If you are beginning your studies with Asian Art in the Museum, you will be required to pay a £2,290 fee towards this course (the cost of taking it independently).
This will be credited to your total fee and deducted from your initial module balance so that only the £970 supplementary fee is applied.
A 20% reduction in tuition fees is available to all students who have an Undergraduate degree in any subject from SOAS, but no higher qualification.
(Please note that you cannot receive the SOAS Alumni discount if you have already received another discount / scholarship from the University.)
We also offer spaces on the programme to those who are not seeking an academic qualification.
Those who choose to audit the course enjoy full access as a SOAS student but are not required to complete the assessments.
Auditors pay the full module fee.
Malcolm is the Director of the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art and Senior Lecturer in Arts Education.
Dr Melissa Carlson researches the development of Southeast Asian modernism in the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries.
Dr Ivy Yi Yan Chan is the co-convenor of the Arts of China module at the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art.
Ms Chiara De Nicolais is a co-convenor of the Arts of the Islamic World module of the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art at SOAS.
Dr David Francis completed his PhD at the Institute of Archaeology at University College London in 2020.
Japanese woodblock prints, Contemporary reworkings and interpretations of Ukiyo-e, Meiji nostalgia
Phyllis Lau-Casson is a co-convenor of the Arts of Southeast Asia module of the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art.
Kiyoko is an art historian specialising in post-war Japanese art.
Born and educated in Tokyo, she took a curatorial role (1983-1991) at the Hara Museum of Contemporary Art, Tokyo: at the time a pioneering art museum promoting contemporary art in Japan.
Dr Natasha Morris is a Lecturer in Islamic Arts and a convenor of the Islamic Art module of the Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art at SOAS.
Dr Sandra Sattler is a module co-covenor for the Arts of India, Arts of the Buddhist World at the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art.
Dr Peter Sharrock is a co-convenor of the Arts of Southeast Asia and Arts of the Buddhist World modules of the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art, as well as Director of Regional Partners, Summer Schools and Alumni Liaison for the SOAS-Alphawood Group.
Dr Emily Shovelton is a specialist in art from the Islamic world, with a particular interest in Persian manuscripts and Persianate culture in India.
A transformational programme that aims to further the understanding and preservation of ancient to pre-modern Buddhist and Hindu art and architecture in Southeast Asia.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/online-postgraduate-diploma-asian-art:
Offered as part of the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art programme, the Online Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art brings our esteemed programme to you, wherever you are in the world, for flexible, full-time study via an entirely online/distance learning programme.
We lead you on a journey of exploration supported by lectures and contributions from a wide range of leading scholars, curators, and art market professionals.
Our online pathway offers you flexibility in how and where you study, while retaining our object-based approach.
Your online learning will be supported by a range of bespoke, professionally produced videos, shot in situ at the museums we work with.
You are supported by online platforms and technologies that allow you to engage deeply with the objects you study.
You can choose to either complete your full programme online, or to augment your online experience with an intensive two-week supporting course offering museum-based study in London ( Asian Art in the Museum ).
Our programme will appeal to all those with a serious interest in Asian art, regardless of your personal, professional or academic background.
It is also a proven pathway to further postgraduate study in Asian art history, and to careers in museums, the commercial art world and academia.
For more information please view our online prospectus .
All international applicants where English is not their first language must be able to show that their English is of a high enough standard to successfully engage with and complete the course.
The SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art offers four immersive, online modules, each eleven weeks in length.
You can begin the programme with any module, in September, January or May.
Analysing & Exploring the Arts and an Independent Study Project in Asian Art History both run online alongside each term.
Asian Art in the Museum is an intensive two-week, in-person immersion in object-based study of Asian art run each July, based at our London campus.
We also offer six in-person modules and it can be possible to combine online modules with in-person modules as part of this programme (subject to any visa requirements).
Fees are calculated based on a single online module fee of £3,375 and can be paid on a module-by-module basis.
Selecting Asian Art in the Museum as a supporting course, as an alternative to the Independent Study Project, requires a supplementary fee of £970.
It can be possible to combine online modules with in-person modules as part of this programme.
You cannot receive the SOAS Alumni discount if you have already received another discount / scholarship from the University.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/find-course/art-nature-and-society-contemporary-china:
This online specialist short course will offer you an ecocritical approach to contemporary Chinese art.
It will also examine how art intersects with the current socio-political climate in China.
It will explore how perceptions of the natural and human environments have been visualised and have changed in relation to destruction, economy, society, politics, ethnicity, consumption and taste.
You will first take a look at how artists have aestheticised ecological decay by drawing on Chinese pictorial traditions in relation to the philosophy of nature or ziran in Chinese.
You will then turn to how artists and curators rethink the representations of waste in exhibition spaces.
To effectively mobilise public participation in socio-environmental transitions, participatory art has been created to transform the power of art into action.
The rise of digital communication via the internet and social media enables the wider public, including the Chinese diaspora, to engage with social, political and environmental issues.
You will end with how international artists and designers have undertaken creative projects to achieve environmental sustainability.
This eight-week course, given by art historians, curators, artists and sociologists, is designed for those interested in how nature and society have informed artistic practices.
You will encounter a broad range of paintings, installations, landscape architecture, performance art, digital media and curatorial practices within socio-environmental contexts in China and identify the key debates associated with these subjects.
Contributors to the programme will offer insights on various topics across art historical and geographical boundaries from an interdisciplinary perspective.
This online short course is offered by the SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art and convened by Dr Xinrui Zhang (Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Humanities Research Centre at the University of York).
The course features eight online lectures delivered via Zoom every Friday (typically at 1pm, UK time).
Each lecture is followed by an extended Q&A session.
All lectures will also be recorded and made available for registrants to view in their own time for a limited period.
PDF document, 249.55KB
Registration fee: £375
Please refer to our registration terms and conditions before registering.
Bursaries are available for permanent residents of the following countries: Brunei, Cambodia, East Timor, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar/Burma, Singapore, Thailand or Vietnam.
Those interested are required to complete a short application form , stating how attendance of the course will positively impact their professional, academic or personal development.
Successful applicants will receive a fully funded place on the course.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/application-form-cefims-online-programmes:
You will automatically receive an email when you submit your application to let you know we have received it.
Your application will be reviewed by our academic staff.
We aim to respond to you within 10 working days.
If your application is successful, we send you a conditional offer and will ask you to submit your supporting documentation, including your transcripts and ID.
Your application will remain valid for three months once you have a conditional offer.
However, we recommend submitting your documents immediately.
Unconditional offers are valid for one year.
Once we have received your documents, we will either request further details or give you an unconditional offer.
We will send you an offer email within five working days of receiving your documents.
Before you take up your place, please look at the University of London regulations and the University of London terms and conditions .
We will email you when an enrolment period opens inviting you to register on your programme.
When you complete the enrolment form, you will select your module for the session and make payment.
You are now a SOAS University of London student
Please refer to the Online and Distance Learning Key dates to view specific session dates.
All distance learning applications must include a 500-word personal statement.
You should give your reasoning for wanting to study your selected programme and why you want to study with the Centre.
You should also provide an account of your academic background and present job or career.
It does not matter whether your interest in studying is for career advancement or personal interest, but it is important that we are convinced of your commitment to a sustained programme of study
For all distance learning programmes we require supporting documentation giving evidence of the following:
For details about the acceptable forms of evidence, along with information about getting your documents verified, please visit Online and distance learning how to apply .
It is your responsibility to arrange for all the necessary documentation to be obtained in support of your application.
We cannot undertake this on your behalf.
Please note that, if necessary, we reserve the right to verify your qualifications with the relevant awarding body and to request further information from you about your background.
All supporting documentation must be received by the application deadline.
Please email your supporting documents to dladmissions@soas.ac.uk
We encourage you to apply as early as possible to secure your place.
Please look carefully at all parts of the form and allow at least 30 minutes to complete the form; you will not be able to save your progress.
All applications will be carefully reviewed and we aim to contact you with a decision within 10 working days
Once your application has been reviewed, you may be made a conditional offer.
A firm offer will only be made once we have received your supporting documentation as specified in the conditional offer.
We will keep you informed of the process in writing.
Fields marked with * must be completed.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/information-compliance/programme-disclaimer:
Information concerning the accuracy of this website, and changes or withdrawals to programmes, courses and modules.
SOAS is committed to providing an innovative, inclusive and high-quality curriculum, meaning that we regularly review our modules and programmes to ensure they offer the best possible student experience.
Please note that modules need a minimum number of students to run.
Should the module not run, current students will be notified of an alternative.
We will notify applicants if there are any changes to core or compulsory modules, including cancellations, with details on alternatives.
SOAS's commitment is to an inclusive curriculum reflecting the best practice in learning and teaching.
Programmes and modules are amended to reflect developments in the subject area, research, teaching practices and on the basis of student feedback.
They are also subject to the availability of specialist staff.
As a result of this, the School cannot guarantee that modules/programmes will always be reconsidered in the context of new evidence.
The School is committed to enabling students to undertake any planned years abroad, however, specific destinations may be altered if circumstances change (e.g.
the safety of travel to the advertised country).
On these occasions, matters are outside of the School’s control and any changes made will be to ensure the safety and wellbeing of students.
The School will notify and support the students to identify an alternative option.
The School will update the online programme and module information as soon as possible to reflect the most up to date information.
Please do not hesitate to contact the relevant department if you have any questions about the programmes or modules on these pages.
The Student Protection Plan is a document that is approved by the Office for Students (OfS) that every university is required to publish on its website.
If you require further information or confirmation of any matter, please contact the Academic Department or the following:
All offers of admission to pursue a programme of study as a registered student of SOAS are made by the Registrar or their officially authorised deputy.
No promise or purported offer made otherwise has any validity.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/fee-status:
Your fee status determines how much tuition you pay and the financial aid you are eligible for.
There are two fee statuses: Home or Overseas.
Whether you pay a home or overseas fee depends on whether you meet certain criteria set by the UK government.
All universities in England use the same assessment criteria, provided by UK Council for International Students' (UKCISA) .
SOAS decides your fee status based on the information you give us on your application.
We will let you know your fee status in your offer letter, but we may need to ask further questions.
In order to be eligible for home fee status, students usually must be a:
The full guide for students paying home fees starting courses after 1 August 2021 is available to view: UK Council for International Students' (UKCISA) .
All students who are not classified as having home fee status will be classified as overseas.
An overseas fee status will usually be because:
If you are unsure about what your fee status is, visit UKCISA for further guidance.
Assessments are based on the information you provide at the time of your application.
If you believe that the fee status you have been given is incorrect, you must complete a Fee Status Questionnaire prior to enrolment providing any relevant supporting evidence.
On receipt of the completed questionnaire and evidence, we will review the decision on your fee status and inform you of the outcome.
It is important to resolve any queries about fee status before enrolling in a programme as fee status will not usually change during the programme.
The outcome of your fees questionnaire will be based on the information and documentation you have provided.
If you feel that an incorrect decision has been made, please contact the relevant admissions team in the first instance.
There are some rare situations where your fee status may change after enrolment - you will need to review the SOAS fee status assessment policy and procedures (MS Word) to see if you qualify.
If a student is eligible to have their fee status reassessed during the programme, the new fee status will apply from the start of the next academic year.
A completed fee status appeal form (PDF, 36.9KB) should be sent to fees@soas.ac.uk .
Appeals are assessed by the fees team and the decisions of the Panel are final.
Please note that reassessment is not applied retrospectively.
Due to the implications of Brexit, there are many changes affecting EU nationals starting UK university courses from September 2021.
An up-to-date guide with specific details on fee status and access to funding for these students can be found on the UKCISA website .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/undergraduate-fees:
Here you’ll find the latest tuition fees charged for studying on-campus programmes at undergraduate level.
These fees include:
Home fees are capped by the Government.
The Government may raise the cap during the course of students’ studies.
If the fee cap rises, SOAS may increase the fee in line with the cap.
Overseas fee payer rates are subject to increases of up to 5% in subsequent years of study on the same degree programme.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/student-fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/postgraduate-taught-fees:
Annual fees for studying on campus programmes at postgraduate level.
These fees include for:
There are different tuition fees for the following programmes and the rates for these can be found on the corresponding programme page:
Read more about your fee status.
[Link to Fees status page]
The following Home and Overseas tuition fees are for the 2025/26 academic year only and may increase by up to 5% in later years of your programme.
Students studying programmes longer than 1 year (i.e, part time over 2 or 3 years) will be charged a fee in each year of study.
Students studying two year full-time programmes will have 2 years of full-time fees.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/fees-funding-and-finance/funding-your-studies/about-us-loans:
Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans (formerly known as Stafford Loans) and Plus Loans are available through the Direct Loan programme operated by the US Education Department.
Direct Loan are educational loans to assist US citizens with the costs of studying.
You should consider the Subsidized and Unsubsidized Direct Loans first as usually this is the cheapest way of borrowing.
If you need additional funding you should then consider a Direct Plus Loan.
Most students will need a combination of Direct Loans (Subsidized/Unsubsidized/PLUS loans) to cover the full Cost of Attendance.
Students studying less than full time will be eligible for a corresponding percentage of their living costs.
The maximum total borrowed from Direct and private loans cannot exceed the annual maximum Cost of Attendance of the institution (your place of study).
For US Federal Aid application details please see How to Apply for a US Federal Loan .
Only on-campus degree students are eligible for Federal Direct Loans at SOAS.
Students studying online or by distance-learning, or at certificate or diploma level are not eligible.
The School Federal Direct Loan Code is G06694 listed under ‘School of Oriental and African Studies - University of London'.
If you have any questions about US loans please contact the Fees and Funding Team by emailing funding@soas.ac.uk .
The Cost of Attendance (CoA) is the amount it will cost a student to go to SOAS, if you are attending School at least half time.
The CoA is the estimate of tuition and fees, cost of food and housing (living expenses), cost of books, supplies, transportation, loan fees and miscellaneous expenses.
The CoA is set by SOAS but may be adjusted downwards by the student to reflect their specific needs.
You may borrow up to the CoA set by the School, but not exceed it.
Your dependency status can affect the amount of funds you can receive.
The Student Aid Index (SAI) affects Direct Subsidized & Unsubsdized loan eligibility (undergraduates only) and is based on the information provided in your FAFSA about you or your family’s income for the year prior to the year for which you are requesting the loan.
This is the amount of funding that the U.S Department of Education expects you and your family to contribute towards funding your studies
Other Financial Assistance (OFA) is any other institutional funding you are expecting to receive to fund your studies.
This includes scholarships, grants, bursaries (except Veterans Affairs Benefits).
You are required to inform the SOAS Funding Office about any institutional funding you have secured for your studies at SOAS.
Below is the Cost of Attendance 2025/26.
Please email funding@soas.ac.uk once you have applied for your FAFSA.
Please note funding is not guaranteed and there are further eligibility checks that take place at the institution.
Please note that funds are not disbursed before the course start date and until you are fully enrolled at the school.
Other essential costs may be included but are subject to approval by the School and must be in line with the relevant guidance and regulations.
Please note that funds are not disbursed before the course start date.
Loan periods covered for academic year 2025/26 are as follows:
Students who are only due to enrol for parts of the academic year will be subject to a lower Cost of Attendance.
The actual GBP (Sterling) you receive will vary as it is dependent on the exchange rate from USD to GBP at the time of the disbursement.
The rate applied will be a retail rate and not the interbank rate.
The US Federal Government calculates and sets the interest rates for Direct Loans on an annual basis starting from July 1 each year.
For more information please visit studentaid.gov .
Federal student loans have an origination fee; therefore, the amount you may receive as a disbursement may be slightly lower than the amount you accept.
Different loan limits apply to the different types of loans.
Details can be found below.
Loan Entitlement
The following formulas are used to calculate loan entitlements:
*Within maximum annual and aggregate loan borrowing limits.
These policies must be read in conjunction with SOAS regulations and policies:
The following policies apply specifically to students in receipt of Federal Student Aid:
SOAS University of London publishes information about financial assistance available to current and prospective students on its website.
This includes information on:
Prospective or current students who require assistance with regard to US Federal Student Aid should contact us at funding@soas.ac.uk .
The programmes offered by SOAS University of London can be found on our website.
To be eligible for US Federal Student Aid, US students must have a high school diploma or equivalent.
The following programmes are not eligible for US Federal Student Aid:
SOAS also delivers several programmes in partnership with other institutions.
At present, these are also not eligible for US Federal Student Aid.
SOAS operates a Satisfactory Academic (SAP) policy which should be read in conjunction with the relevant regulations (taught degree or postgraduate research degree regulations).
Tuition fees are published on the SOAS website .
SOAS operates a Return of Title IV policy which provides details on the calculation for any student who withdraws from their programme of study and the return of ‘unearned’ loan funds to the U.S.
Department of Education.
SOAS University of London is based in Central London: 10 Thornhaugh Street Russell Square London WC1H 0XG
Oversight over all loan counselling in relation to US Federal Student Aid rests with the Academic Registrar.
Studentaid.gov is a useful tool and source of information for students interested in and in receipt of Federal Student Aid.
This includes tools to complete:
The London Metropolitan Police publishes information on crime and crime rates.
The SOAS Student Advice and Wellbeing Team support students who have personal safety concerns.
SOAS University of London fully complies with data protection laws .
The School is committed to not misrepresenting in the following three areas:
This is overseen by two senior governance bodies at the School, both are accountable to the Board of Trustees:
SOAS is registered with the UK’s higher education regulator, the Office for Students, and is obliged to maintain the conditions of registration which among other things include:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/fees-funding-and-finance/funding-your-studies/about-us-loans/apply-us-federal-direct-loan:
You should have accepted an unconditional offer for a place on an on-campus degree at the School and be an eligible US citizen to apply for a US Federal Direct Loan.
You can complete steps 2, 3 and 4 in any order.
You must complete step 1 before step 4.
Go to studentaid.gov and register so that you can use the online tools.
Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to obtain your Student Aid Report (ISIR).
Please read the 'Comments' section on the ISIR to ensure that your data is complete.
The ISIR provides the data for your eligibility assessment at the institution
SOAS Federal School code is G06694
Next you should complete direct loan counselling via studentaid.gov .
We also recommend that you complete the Annual Student Loan Acknowledgement for Federal Student Loans.
Depending on your circumstances, you may also need to complete PLUS Credit Counseling.
E-sign the Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Master Promissory Note (MPN).
This is the contract you sign agreeing to the terms of your loan.
If you are applying for a Direct Plus Loan complete the Plus Request Process and e-sign the Plus MPN.
Email funding@soas.ac.uk if you are a new student to submit a ticket on SID if you are a returning student to tell us that you would like to apply for a loan.
We will then check and confirm your eligibility for Direct Loans.
We will send you an e-mail with a Cost of Attendance (CoA) that includes your OFA and SAI.
At this point you can choose to decrease the amount you wish to borrow but not increase.
It is your responsibility to inform us if you are notified of/receive a scholarship, external award of bursary after your eligibility has been assessed.
Once all checks have been completed and your eligibility confirmed, we will originate your loan and provide you with a Loan Notification letter that can be used to apply for a CAS and exempt you from paying a deposit, if your tuition fees are covered in full by the loan.
This letter will also be used to support your visa application.
We will issue you with a loan notification of student loan for visa purposes as part of your application for your UK Student Route visa.
This letter is issued specifically for visa application purposes and is an acceptable form of evidence of your student loan for your Student Route visa application so that you meet the requirement to prove you have sufficient funds.
This is part of an arrangement between UK universities and UK Visas and Immigration.
The UK visa authorities may require you to submit the original documentation.
If your circumstances change before you arrive for the start of your degree then you must ensure you contact funding@soas.ac.uk as soon as possible.
In many circumstances it is possible to change the loan amount later on (up to the Cost of Attendance).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/teaching-timetable:
Web timetables are updated constantly and kept up-to-the-minute with any changes.
They always take precedence over downloaded and printed copies.
Students and Staff can access the Timetable using Publish .
Login will be using your usual SOAS details.
Once logged in, you can ‘Subscribe’ via the icon in the top right corner of the Desktop site.
If you cannot access your personal timetable you can look up the timetables of individual modules as a Guest on Publish.
If you have any queries about the modules appearing on your timetable please contact Student Information Desk (SID) for help.
If you have any queries about your timetable, please contact your Department Manager in the first instance.
For timetable changes, Heads of Department and Department Learning and Teaching Convenors may complete the timetable change request form .
To inform us of your teaching constraints, please submit the staff constraints form .
All submissions will require approval from your Head of Department.
If you are looking to book a room at SOAS, access the room bookings portal .
For room booking inquiries, please contact the Room Bookings team in the Estates department at roombooking@soas.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/governance/policies-and-procedures/degree-regulations-policies-and-procedures:
This is the repository for the regulations, policies and procedures that govern SOAS degrees.
Cohorts will normally be governed by the regulations that come into force for their year of enrolment.
When referring to the documents, please ensure you are looking at the section that reflects your start year.
For information on regulations covering academic years prior to 2019/20, please contact the Quality Assurance Team at qa@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/alternative-accommodation-options:
Whilst the majority of SOAS students choose to live in halls of residence, there are other options that meet particular needs.
Private renting, living at home, living with a host family, becoming a property guardian or offering homestay support through a homeshare programme, can all reduce accommodation costs drastically.
However, utilities and other bills may be added to your rental fees, so please consider these when you are making your decision.
The University of London Housing Services has a property database with private landlords, letting agents, private halls and other providers of private housing.
They also provide free legal advice on a range of issues such as deposit or disrepair disputes, and a contract checking service for SOAS students.
The University of London Housing Fair takes place around May and September every year.
Please visit their Events section for next coming up dates.
It is the responsibility of the student to make all the necessary checks before entering into agreements with private landlords.
Staying with a host family is a popular option with students moving away from home for the first time and international students who wish to experience British family life or practice their English language skills.
The family may be an older couple whose children have left home, a younger couple with children at home, a single parent or a single person.
Often, accommodation in homestays is catered, with meals being shared with the host family, however self-catering may be arranged.
Location - as the centre of London is a busy commercial area, most families live outside the centre.
This means the average journey to school will be 45 - 60 minutes door-to-door.
You can apply to live with a family through the following agencies:
It is the responsibility of the student to make all the necessary checks before entering into agreements with these external companies.
SOAS is not affiliated with these companies.
There are several companies that run property guardian schemes, looking after empty houses and commercial properties on behalf of owners.
The companies recruit individuals (guardians) who are willing to live flexibly in quirky and unconventional accommodation, for rents far below the market average.
The arrangement is called a temporary occupation, and guardians may be asked to move to another property with as little as two weeks’ notice.
Whilst this can be a very cheap living option, there are some drawbacks, so consider doing some research before deciding if this option suits you.
You may have to move frequently or at short notice.
Will this affect your studies?
You will not have the same rights as a tenant, and you will usually be expected to live with other guardians.
Properties may not always be in a good condition, may be unfurnished and may not be connected to the internet.
The company will carry out frequent inspections and there are often rules banning pets, children, overnight guests and parties.
London accommodation is expensive, and for those who have the option, living at home or with relatives or friends may offer a more affordable lifestyle.
Many SOAS students choose to live at home and commute to SOAS.
SOAS Students’ Union offers a great range of activities, events and sports throughout the week, enabling you to get involved in the student community no matter where you choose to live.
New students should look out for events during Welcome Week aimed at students who are not living in halls.
Homeshare schemes offer an economical place to live in return for free support and company.
They match individuals (homesharers) who are able to give their time with individuals who need some support in order to live independently (householder).
This might be an older person with dementia, a disabled adult, people with mental health issues, care leavers or parents who have learning disabilities.
The homesharer provides company, security, a person on hand in case of an emergency and may also help with light cleaning, meal preparation, food shopping, gardening, or driving, in exchange for very low or no rent.
Homesharing can be a unique and rewarding experience as well as providing affordable accommodation, but it is not for everyone.
Consider whether you are able to balance your studies and social life with providing support that is both caring and consistent to someone who will be relying on you in order to maintain their independence.
The UK network for homeshare providers is HomeshareUK , working with agencies which offer homeshare, including:
Most halls of residence and privately rented accommodation offer contracts of 6 to 12 months.
If your stay is shorter than 6 months, you will need short stay accommodation.
Our accommodation partners all offer short term stays depending on availability.
Contact applyaccommodation@soas.ac.uk for further information.
There are many hostels across London offering short and medium term stays.
These can be found with your usual internet search engine, but please ensure you do your research regarding location, facilities, etc before you book.
Short stays in a family home arranged through Hosts International, HFS London or HOST UK.
This is a great option for study abroad students, students on language courses and for students who are arriving to London for the first time.
Hosts International will place you with a host family that has been accredited to British Council standards.
Meals are usually included in the price.
Short stay, summer school and summer accommodation.
During the summer holiday, rooms can be booked on a day rate in some of our halls of residence.
Please contact the SOAS Accommodation Office by emailing applyaccommodation@soas.ac.uk for current availability and options.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation/undergraduate-halls/wood-green-hall:
Wood Green Hall accommodates 169 students from a variety of London universities.
The Hall is located in North London on Brabant Road.
The area is vibrant and multicultural with a number of restaurants, bars, shops and cinemas to keep you entertained.
East, West and Central London are also accessible, with a 3 minute walk to Wood Green station offering access to the Piccadilly line - taking you straight to SOAS in 25 minutes.
Wood Green Hall has 24 hour security and offers low cost student accommodation with furnished single rooms with Wi-Fi throughout.
Secure storage is provided in kitchens, and bathrooms are shared on a single sex basis.
There is also a large common room giving residents an open space to socialise or take part in organised events.
Wood Green Hall is managed by Southern Housing .
Tenancy start date 20 September 2025 to 27 June 2026 (40 weeks) or 20 September 2025 to 5 September 2026 (50 weeks).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/stay-club-camden:
The Stay Club Camden has a total of 270 self-contained studios offering a diverse student community in the heart of creative Camden.
Located opposite The Stables Market within easy reach of supermarkets, coffee shops, local amenities, and the London transport network.
Students can travel to/from campus via direct tube (Northern Line) or bus in under 23 minutes or by foot in approximately 40 minutes.
The residence benefits from inviting social spaces such as a gym, common room, courtyard, café, and classrooms; all of which are accessible to students staying in the property.
A coin operated laundry is on-site (payable locally) and bike store situated on the basement level.
Self-contained studios are well equipped with double bed(s), a kitchenette, en-suite shower room, study/dining table, and plenty of storage.
The Stay Club Camden has a 24/7 on-site student support service, evening security, and events team.
All rooms come with superfast WIFI, linen, towels and starter kitchenware at no extra cost.
The Stay Club Camden is managed by The Stay Club
Virtual tour of Stay Club Camden .
Tenancy start dates 21 September 2025 to 5 July 2026 (41 weeks) or 21 September 2025 to 13 September 2026 (51 weeks)

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/stay-club-kentish-town:
The Stay Club Kentish Town consists of 354 self-contained studios arranged over 7-floors.
Located on a quiet residential road parallel to the bustling Kentish Town High Street.
The residence is well positioned with easy access to local supermarkets, independent shops, cafés, and other amenities.
The residence is a short 5-minute walk to Kentish Town Underground Station (Northern Line), and SOAS campus can be reached in 23 minutes via direct tube, 30 minutes by direct bus, or approximately 45 minutes by foot.
The Stay Club has expansive social spaces including, a surround sound luxury cinema with popcorn machine, gym, quiet study spaces, restaurant, a ‘community porous’ café, common areas, and a disco space.
This hall has a 24/7 on-site student support service, evening security, and events team.
The Stay Club Kentish Town is managed by The Stay Club .
Virtual tour of Stay Club Kentish Town .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/college-hall:
College Hall accommodates 357 University of London students.
The Hall is centrally located on Malet street, directly opposite the SOAS campus and within walking distance to Oxford Street, Soho and Convent Garden, and transport links across London and the UK.
The Eurostar terminal is 15 minute walk away.
Breakfast (brunch at weekends) and dinner are served every day in the spacious dining room.
Please visit the Intercollegiate Halls catering page for more information.
The hall provides social and sporting activities and all students are encouraged to join in with the social life of the hall.
The hall offers a dedicated team of trained Wardens and Residential Advisors (RAs) that are available to support you with any personal, social, or wellbeing concerns and to help you access additional help as needed.
College Hall is managed by the University of London
Virtual tour of College Hall
Tenancy start date 14 September 2025 - 20 June 2026 (40 weeks).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/connaught-hall:
Connaught Hall is a catered Hall which accommodates 230 students from across the University of London.
The Hall is centrally located on Tavistock Square, which is 2 minute walk from SOAS, and within walking distance to Oxford Street, Soho and Convent Garden, and transport links across London and the UK.
Connaught Hall is managed by the University of London
Virtual tour of Connaught Hall .
Tenancy start date 14 September 2025 to 20 June 2026 (40 weeks)

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/international-hall:
International Hall is the largest single Hall of the University of London, currently housing around 860 residents in various forms of accommodation.
The Hall is centrally located on Landsdowne Terrace, 5 minute walk from the SOAS campus and within walking distance to Oxford Street, Soho and Convent Garden, and transport links across London and the UK.
Bathrooms are shared between residents, however each room contains a wash hand basin.
International Hall is managed by the University of London
Virtual tour of International Hall
Tenancy start date 14 September 2025 to 20 June 2026 (40 weeks).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/nutford-house:
Nutford House is a catered Hall which accommodates up to 273 students from across the University of London.
The hall is a complex of 3 buildings located next to each other: the main building, the Annex and Seymour Place.
The Hall is centrally located on Brown street.
This is a 45 minute walk from SOAS campus and a 5 minute walk from Marble Arch or Edgware Road underground stations (20 minute journey by public transport).
Hyde Park, Oxford Street shopping & the Regents’ Canal are all within walking distance.
Nutford house is managed by the University of London
Virtual tour of Nutford House .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/garden-halls:
The Garden Halls accommodates 1200 students in a variety of options, including townhouses.
The Hall is centrally located on Cartwright Gardens, 8 minute walk from the SOAS campus and within walking distance to Oxford Street, Soho and Convent Garden, and transport links across London and the UK.
Garden Halls offers a mix of self-catered and catered accommodation.
The Garden Halls are managed by the University of London .
Virtual tour of Garden Halls .
Tenancy start dates 14 September 2025 to 20 June 2026 (40 weeks) or 14 September 2025 to 29 August 2026 (50 weeks).
Please note: there are no studios at this hall.
Please only select from the options below if you wish to stay in Garden Halls.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/study/accommodation/undergraduate-halls/dinwiddy-house:
Dinwiddy House is an undergraduate hall for 1st Year students, housing 523 students.
The Hall is located on Pentonville Road (N1), a 20-minute walk, 10 minute bus and 5 minute tube ride to the SOAS campus.
Close to Angel, Camden and Kings Cross, the location offers a cinema, theatres, pubs, restaurants and is 5 minutes walk from the Eurostar terminal with easy access to Paris and Euro Disney, Amsterdam, and Brussels.
Students are accommodated in flats of 5-7 rooms clustered around a shared kitchen/dining space.
All rooms are en-suite.
Two single studios and one double studio are also available.
It is a self-catered, mixed residence, although applications for single sex flats will be considered where possible.
Please do not apply for this property unless you are an undergraduate student.
The property is suitable for students requiring adapted accommodation.
Dinwiddy House is managed by Sanctuary Students .
IFCELS Pre-sessional and Summer programmes - Accommodation is available at special rates within walking distance of SOAS.
If you require accommodation with your Pre-sessional or Summer programme, please contact applyaccommodation@soas.ac.uk .
Tenancy start dates: 21 September 2025 to 14 June 2026 (38 weeks) or 21 September 2025 to 13 September 2026 (51 weeks).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/handel-mansions:
Handel Mansions comprises 20 flats of 2, 3 or 4 bedrooms.
This Halls is centrally located in Handel Street, an 8 minute walk from SOAS campus, 2 minutes away from Brunswick Center, and within walking distance to Oxford Street, Soho and Convent Garden, and transport links across London and the UK.
The hall offers independent living with warden's support suited to postgraduate students requiring 50 week contracts only.
Handel Mansions is managed by University of London
Virtual tour of Handel Mansions .
Tenancy start date 14 September 2025 to 29 August 2026 (50 weeks).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/paul-robeson-house:
Paul Robeson House offers accommodation to 260 Postgraduate students in ensuite rooms.
Close to Angel, Camden and Kings Cross, the location offers a cinema, theatres, pubs, restaurants and is 5 minute walk from the Eurostar terminal with easy access to Paris and Euro Disney, Amsterdam, and Brussels.
These ensuite rooms are clustered in flats of 5-7 rooms, with a shared kitchen and dining space.
There are also double ensuite rooms for couples.
The accommodation is a self-catered, mixed residence, although applications for single-sex flats will be considered where possible.
Please do not apply for this property unless you are a postgraduate student.
If you are an undergraduate student over the age of 30, you may apply for this accommodation.
Paul Robeson House is managed by Sanctuary Students
IFCELS Pre-sessional and Summer Programmes - Accommodation is available at special rates within walking distance of SOAS.
Tenancy start date 21 September 2025 to 14 June 2026 (38 weeks) or 21 September 2025 to 13 September 2026 (51 weeks).

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/foundation-college/international-foundation-courses-4:
Application form for English Language and Academic Studies (ELAS) at the Foundation College.
Application form for the IFCELS International Summer School at the Foundation College.
Application form for Pre-sessional Courses at the Foundation College.
Application form for the International Foundation Programme (ICC) at the Foundation College.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/foundation-college/international-foundation-courses-2:
Fees must be paid in full before the start of your course of study.
Fees may be paid in any of the following ways:
If you need to provide an organisation with an invoice before they will release funds to you to pay your tuition fees, please email fees@soas.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/foundation-college/international-foundation-courses-0:
Four scholarships, each worth £3,000 for ICC Foundation, FDPS Pre- master's or ELAS (studying for two terms and excluding exchange students) students joining the programme in September 2023 will be awarded to students who want to play an active role in the SOAS community, engage with IFCELS students and support the IFCELS Department.
During their studies on International Foundation Ambassadors will work with their fellow students and future IFCELS students through social media, marketing activities and mentoring.
This is a scholarship scheme for IFCELS students who would like to be IFCELS Ambassadors during their time on the programme and through to the end of 2024.
As an International Foundation Ambassador, you will be expected to get involved in the SOAS community:
This could involve:
blogging or vlogging about your experiences at SOAS during your time on an IFCELS programme.
taking part in promotions in the UK or in your home country during vacations (if you are there)
contacting or being contacted by prospective  students through social media.
mentoring 2023-24 IFCELS students in the first term of the programme.
BA / BSc Business, Management, Economics & Law with Foundation Year at SOAS University of London
BA/BSc Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities with Foundation Year programme at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/foundation-college/international-foundation-courses-1:
Each year our students apply for undergraduate study through UCAS and receive offers from a range of universities, both in London and further afield.
Last year our students received offers from over 20 different universities and 6 in the top 10, according to the Times Higher Education university Ranking 2023 .
Our students progress to a range of social science, arts and humanities and business/finance-related programmes.
Popular subject areas include Law, Politics and International Relations, Development Studies, Economics, Management, Accounting and Finance, Anthropology, History of Art and Media and Creative Industries.
Over the last two years, our students have progressed to many different universities, with the majority staying within the University of London.
Below are examples for our students’ recent undergraduate destinations:
Last year 85% of the SOAS Pre-master's student cohort were awarded of Merit or Distinction and as a result of this performance, 80% of our students progressed to Master’s programmes at institutions within the University of London institutions while the others continued onto postgraduate study at universities outside London.
In the social sciences, the most popular degrees that students progressed to were politics, international relations and development-related, while in the arts and humanities, history of art and curation, anthropology and media studies were common progression pathways.
The SOAS Pre-master's also enabled students to progress to a range of business, marketing and finance-related programmes, both in London and further field.
Below is a list of some of the destination programmes that our SOAS Pre-master's students have progressed to in recent years:
The FDPS Pre-master’s Diploma is recognised by universities across the UK, and so students completing FDPS progress to postgraduate study at a range of different universities.
Last year, students progressed to programmes at over 25 different universities.
Over the last three years 75% of  students completing the programme were able to progress to top 30 universities, including SOAS, LSE, UCL, Imperial, Warwick, Durham, St Andrew’s, Edinburgh, and Bristol, and 60% went on to postgraduate study at a college of the University of London.
FDPS students are now guaranteed a conditional offer for all Master's programmes at SOAS.
Click here to find a full list of postgraduate programmes, eligibility requirements and offer conditions.
The majority of FDPS students progress to postgraduate study at universities other than SOAS and follow numerous different subjects ranging from Management and Finance, through Development Studies, International Relations and Law, to Media, Anthropology and Linguistics.
Here are some examples of the programmes which FDPS students often study in different subject areas:

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/foundation-college/international-foundation-courses-5:
Terms and conditions for the International Foundation Programme (ICC) and Pre-Masters Programme (FDPS).
Terms and conditions for the International Summer Programme and Pre-sessional Courses.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/virtual-tour:
Please enable Javascript!

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/story-soas:
SOAS has many different stories and histories.
This is a story of the people whose contributions changed SOAS – and the world beyond.
SOAS was founded in 1916 as the School of Oriental Studies, a college of the University of London, and inaugurated the following year by George V, King of the British Dominions and Emperor of India.
This was one of the few ceremonies he attended during the First World War, and its attendees – former viceroy of India Lord Curzon, and other government officials – make clear that this was an institution of unusual purpose.
This was, as the School’s Royal Charter puts it:
"...to give instruction in the Languages of Eastern and African peoples, Ancient and Modern, and in the Literature, History, Religion, and Customs of those peoples, especially with a view to the needs of persons about to proceed to the East or to Africa for the pursuit of study and research, commerce or a profession..."
An act of parliament enabled the School to occupy the London Institution building at Finsbury Circus, where it would be a centre of global scholarship, rivalling the famous "oriental" schools of Berlin, Paris and Saint Petersburg.
But it would also train British colonial officials, providing knowledge of Britain's colonial subjects, their languages and cultures, so those officials could more effectively run an empire.
The School of Oriental Studies soon developed a reputation as a hotbed of spies and adventurers.
William McGovern, a lecturer in Japanese at the School, made headlines in 1923 after smuggling himself into Lhasa in Tibet, having been denied access by its authorities (he is one of the possible inspirations for Indiana Jones).
Freya Stark studied Arabic and Persian at the School in 1923, going on to explore and write about areas little known to Europeans, such as in The Valleys of the Assassins , about western Iran.
School’s first Director, Edward Denison Ross, had a background in imperial education as former Principal of the renowned Calcutta Madrasah.
He spoke 12 languages and led a small but distinguished academic staff that included Bloomsbury Group writer and orientalist Arthur Waley, who translated and popularised important Chinese and Japanese poetry.
For the academics, the relationship between serving the British Empire and advancing knowledge of global peoples was complex.
Many were committed to making people in Britain more aware of – and interested in – the societies and cultures that Britain ruled over.
While Director, Ross wrote in The Times that acceptance of the term "Mohamedan" by the BBC Committee for Spoken English was wrong.
"This expression is regarded by many Muslims as offensive on religious grounds," he said, "for it implies that they worship the Prophet, and the sooner it is expelled from everyday usage the better."
The early student population shows how the School soon reflected shifts in the empire and how it worked, particularly in terms of calls to devolve power in India.
In the 1920-21 academic year, of the 274 men and 138 women enrolled, 54 were from India, among them Subbier Subramania Iyer, who would go on to become Vice-Chancellor of Lucknow University.
That same year the first Doctor of Literature was awarded to Suniti Kumar Chatterji, who became a noted linguist and educationalist, and to the Bengali polymath Sushil Kumar De.
The racial diversity of the student body was echoed to a degree in the academic body, even at the School’s outset.
This was diverse for a British institution of the period, but senior and permanent posts were predominantly held by those of white Western heritage.
From its foundation, the School led the field of linguistics in the UK.
It did this by emphasising the importance of primary sources, written and spoken in the languages of the peoples studied, using these to understand their societies and cultural inheritance.
The principle was established that the disciplines of a region would only be studied once its languages were understood.
This meant that, from the beginning, the study of people and places was seen as vital to the study of languages, and it triggered growth in many fields.
In the 19th century the University of London established the first professorship of Chinese, founding Chinese studies in the UK.
This position passed to the School at its creation, and perhaps its most famous appointee was Reginald Johnston in 1931, having been English tutor to Puyi, the last emperor of China.
One of the first lecturers in Chinese literature was Evangeline Edwards, former Principal of a teacher training college in Mukden, China, and pioneer of the study of Tang fiction.
She worked alongside the Beijing novelist Lao She, one of the greatest Chinese writers of the 20th century, who taught Mandarin at the school and was one of the first teachers of the language outside China.
The School’s Department of Linguistics was founded in 1932, the first in the UK, and the professorship of Chinese was awarded to Edwards in 1939, making her one of the first female professors in the UK.
At its founding, the School inherited a variety of existing posts in African and Asian languages from other University of London colleges.
Figures like Alice Werner, who was central in developing the study of Swahili language and literature, especially in oral traditions, enabled the School to expand its research in African linguistics.
This led to the launch of the African Linguistics and Phonetics Department in 1932.
Using a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation, the department became world-leading, due in part to the efforts and personality of the phonetician Ida Ward.
Known for her groundbreaking work in West African tonal languages, she was able to study many of these languages while at the School – including Efik, Igbo, Mende and Yoruba – because of the many African scholars and students there by the 1930s.
It was this environment that drew one of the School’s most illustrious alumni, the American bass-baritone singer, film actor and activist Paul Robeson.
His studies of Swahili and phonetics coincided with a personal awakening in which he wrote his famous essay "I Want to be African".
In the essay he wrote:
"In my music, my plays, my films I want to carry always this central idea: to be African.
Multitudes of men have died for less worthy ideals; it is even more eminently worth living for."
Ward became head of the Africa Department in 1937 and the following year the School changed its name: it was now the School of Oriental and African Studies.
In the early 1940s it moved to buildings at Russell Square in Bloomsbury, where it stands today.
By the end of the 1930s, most of students taking language courses at the School were British cadets training for the Colonial Service and Indian Civil Service, as had been the case since its founding.
But its degree students,  while a small proportion of SOAS’s student body overall, were by this time largely from India – a situation unforeseen in 1916.
The outbreak of the Second World War saw the student population change quickly to military officers, the War Office having joined with the School to address the shortage of linguists in Japanese.
Scholarships were offered to selected grammar and public school boys, who became known as the "Dulwich Boys", after their lodgings at Dulwich College.
Less well known is that a group of women was recruited to study Japanese to work in codebreaking at Bletchley Park.
As well as this, large numbers of School staff worked in postal censorship, reading 32,000 letters between 1942 and 1945 – in 192 languages.
This did nothing to quell the old rumours that SOAS was full of spies.
Nor did the reappearance of Freya Stark, over the road at the Ministry of Information, using her regional expertise to establish a propaganda network in North Africa.
But the war had increased public understanding of the importance of the School’s areas of study, and the need to find means of teaching Japanese in just six months had a major impact on language teaching methodologies, placing SOAS at the forefront of this.
In diplomacy, the linguistic and cultural knowledge gained by the officers at SOAS formed the basis of a new post-war understanding between Japan and Britain.
The war set in motion other changes that would be important for the School’s academic mission.
It retained its strong connection to empire (Enoch Powell came to study Urdu at SOAS in 1946 because he was convinced this training would enable him to become India's next viceroy) but few could ignore the fact that British imperialism had been put under strain by the war.
With the transfer of power in India, and changes in colonial government in African colonies, education and research about the world was seen as vital to maintain Britain’s global influence.
From this, the 1946 Scarborough Commission identified SOAS as the key academic centre nationally for its regions of study.
Crucially, it recommended the expansion of Asian and African studies independently of undergraduate student demand.
This brought funding for a major increase in teaching posts and subjects taught.
In this context, the study of South East Asia as a distinct region occurred first at SOAS, with the appointment of DGE Hall, a scholar of Burmese, in 1949.
Meanwhile, Roland Oliver led SOAS historians in showing that there had been no academic study of African history, only the study of Europeans in Africa, and established African history as a distinct field of scholarship.
An emphasis of the Director, Cyril Philips, was that studies would embrace contemporary Asia, Africa and the Middle East, as opposed to the orientalist scholarship that had concerned only their pasts.
In this context, cultural anthropologist Christoph von Furer-Haimendorf founded the Department of Cultural Anthropology, which he built into the largest anthropology department in Britain.
Nonetheless, he is an example of the complexity and controversy that can surround such scholarship: his groundbreaking research on tribal communities was enabled through his connections with the colonial government of India.
In 1961, as a spy was finally unmasked at SOAS (Soviet intelligence officer Konon Molody), the Hayter Committee recommended further expansion of British area studies.
SOAS scholars were first to formally study the People's Republic of China, founding the Contemporary China Institute and China Quarterly .
Cyril Philips pioneered the radical field of area studies, which provided an interdisciplinary approach to teaching and research across the SOAS regions.
Mary Boyce published the seminal History of Zoroastrianism , informed by fieldwork in Iran to study the faith as practised by both "priests and housewives".
Jon Wansbrough and Michael Cooke caused controversy with new analysis of early Islamic history based on the only surviving contemporary accounts of the religion’s rise, manuscripts in Armenian, Greek, Aramaic and Syriac.
The School’s strength in social sciences continued to grow, reflecting its longstanding interdisciplinarity and use of varied, cutting-edge methods in studying its regions.
In economics, Edith Penrose published her highly influential The Theory of the Growth of the Firm , and while Chair of Economics laid the foundations for SOAS research and teaching in economics, development studies, management and strategy.
Another of the School’s most famous alumni, Walter Rodney, undertook his PhD at this time while attending the weekly SOAS African History Seminar, founded by Roland Oliver and by then a key conduit for the advancement of African history globally.
Rodney completed his thesis, titled A History of the Upper Guinea Coast 1545–1800 , in 1966.
He went on to write his landmark treatise How Europe Underdeveloped Africa and become an important radical intellectual, before his tragic assassination in 1980.
By the 1970s the School had outgrown its premises and become scattered over several sites.
Plans to transform Bloomsbury into a university precinct stretched back decades, but the time had come to make this part of Georgian London the central and permanent home of SOAS.
The centrepiece of the new campus would be a library appropriate to the international importance of its collections and to growing student numbers.
Architect Denys Lasdun designed it in the "brutalist" style, after his nearby Institute of Education and the National Theatre on the South Bank.
The style was controversial.
But, as with the National Theatre, the SOAS Library is now recognised as a classic.
It was also ahead of its time in many ways: sitting at the base of its large, naturally lit atrium, the reading room is central to the design, anticipating how important these spaces would be to twenty-first-century university libraries.
It opened in 1973.
Following lobbying from the School, a 1986 national enquiry led by Sir Peter Parker pointed to the severe losses suffered by Asian and African studies throughout the university system, and to the increasing demand from government and business for teaching and expertise relating to these regions.
In 1993, the Raisman Committee advised the English university funding body that SOAS should receive an exceptional grant for specialist subjects of national importance.
Innovative scholarship continued.
Historian Shula Marks challenged the liberal interpretation of South African history, leading an influential seminar series regularly attended by anti-apartheid activists Thabo Mbeke and Albie Sachs.
In studies of the ancient world, Andrew George made a first-hand translation of the cuneiform inscriptions on the clay tablets of Nineveh, producing the most definitive rendering of the 3,700-year-old Babylonian Epic of Gilgamesh .
Elizabeth Moore worked with NASA to analyse radar remote sensing data of Angkor Wat and other temple complexes in Cambodia.
Collected by the space shuttle Endeavour , the imagery was compared with temple reliefs to document the distribution of phraa phum , or spirit posts, in the sites’ ancient hydrology.
The theme of water continues in the modern day, with Tony Allen publishing The Middle East Water Question: Hydropolitics and the Global Economy in 2000.
His concept of "virtual water" has become a cornerstone for policy-makers and researchers across the globe, and water remains a vital part of SOAS research and teaching in development studies.
Meanwhile, the Brunei Gallery – a unique resource among UK universities – had opened to promote the SOAS regions of Asia, Africa and the Middle East through a programme of changing exhibitions.
It has since held over 250 exhibitions, from Pure Soul: The Jaina Spiritual Traditions to Japanese Aesthetics of Recycling .
Originally featuring an Islamic-style water garden on its roof, this changed to a Japanese-inspired roof garden as part of Anglo-Japan celebrations in 2001.
In 2011 the SOAS Library was designated a National Research Library, one of only five in the UK, and in 2016 part of the historic Senate House building joined the SOAS campus as the Paul Webley Wing.
The building once home to the Ministry of Information (and inspiration for George Orwell’s Ministry of Truth) now houses teaching rooms and a glass-covered atrium.
Academic research grew in depth and diversity over these years, aided by SOAS academics collaborating to establish new research centres within and beyond the School.
Through these, SOAS engages with contemporary challenges of climate and globalisation, championing the rights of displaced people through research strengths in migration and diaspora, and developing the governance and management of water, minerals, energy and nutrition.
SOAS does not shy away from its origins as an institution of the British Empire, established to train colonial officials over a century ago.
The SOAS of today is a dynamic and progressive place of many viewpoints, and would not be what it is without the journey it has taken.
There is no single moment on this journey when SOAS shifted from being a "colonial" to a "post-colonial" institution.
But from the beginning it has been a place where students and academics have questioned, debated and fought about how to understand the regions of the world that were subjected to colonialism.
Their diverse experiences have made it a place of unique insight.
The name itself has been at the core of this journey.
Over recent years the students and staff have discussed the name, what it means to them and how it evokes our history, and the School now refers to itself as SOAS University of London.
This reflects the changing nature of the institution without forgetting its foundations.
Today, the School is a major contributor to the idea of "decolonising" organisations and curricula, and is innovating equitable global partnerships to build fair and co-owned initiatives between the School and partners across Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
SOAS graduates are diplomats, ambassadors and ministers to governments around the world, as well as artists, musicians and activists.
Their range of skills and perspectives is unparalleled and grows by the year.
What they share – and SOAS shares with them – is a truly global outlook, and a desire to change the world for the better.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-humanities/school-anthropology-media-and-gender:
The School of Anthropology, Media and Gender is the only one of its kind in the UK – an alliance of departments with unrivalled expertise on culture, media, and society in Asia, Africa, the Middle East and their diasporas.
All three departments have a distinctive identity and complementary approaches to teaching and research.
Media and Gender are both interdisciplinary, while Anthropology and Sociology at SOAS has a strong disciplinary focus, relying on reflexivity, ethnography and participant-observation in its research.
Collectively, the School offers research-led teaching and produces world-class research that invites new thinking about change, relationships, and hierarchies of knowledge.
Our courses offer a huge range of options, with Africa, Asia, the Middle East and their diasporas always at the front and centre.
The School of Anthropology, Media and Gender contains within it diverse scholars committed equally to nurturing criticality and care in teaching and research.
Whether inquiring into the climate emergency or food insecurity, treatments for mental health, how digital media is changing, anti-racist movements or transnational feminisms, our staff and students are always asking exciting and challenging questions.
The department counts 50+ academics from across a range of subjects and expertise.
The Department of Media Studies at SOAS is an interdisciplinary space for research and teaching in global media and digital communications from a non-Western perspective with a particular focus on Asia, Africa and the Middle East and their diasporas.
The Department of Gender Studies at SOAS is an interdisciplinary space promoting research and teaching on gender.
The Centre for Global Media and Communications at SOAS University of London.
CAMHRA is a globally oriented and locally connected hub for cutting-edge anthropological research, education and public engagement on mental health.
he SOAS Food Studies Centre is an interdisciplinary centre dedicated to the study of the political, economic, and cultural dimensions of food, historically and in the contemporary moment, from production, to exchange, to preparation, to consumption.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-humanities/school-arts:
The School of Arts is a world-leading centre for study and research involving visual and material arts, music and sound studies, curating, media industries and digital cultures of Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and their global diasporas.
With our degree programmes across the creative arts at the core, we are one of only a few global centres specialising in the historical and contemporary arts of Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
The School of Arts is a forum for innovative interdisciplinary research and teaching and also a vibrant and diverse community of researchers and students.
Our unique concentration of experts are unsurpassed in scale and reach by any other institution worldwide.
Explore how early 20th century Indian lithographs helped popularise religious and historical imagery, and why this collection has been acquired by the SOAS Gallery.
Dr Gizeh Rangel-de Lazaro discusses the new Postgraduate Diploma in Museum Studies based in London and Saudi Arabia.
A student of the joint SOAS-Effat University Museum Studies course shares how their experience challenged them to think critically about the important role of museums in society.
Find out how museums tackle critical questions around the restitution of objects in their collections.
Filmmaker Hamida Issa studied MA Global Cinema and the Transcultural back in 2014.
We sat down with her to talk about her life, her time at SOAS and her filmmaking career to date.
Zoë Saebu shares her experience of studying MA History of Art and Archaeology at SOAS and where it led her.
African Screen Worlds: Decolonising Film and Screen Studies’ (2019-2025) is an international, European Research Council-funded research project led by Professor Lindiwe Dovey that explores in particular Africans’ contemporary contributions to diverse, complex screen worlds.
In this 52” documentary film, (with French and English subtitles), award-winning Malian kora player Ballaké Sissoko takes us on a unique journey through Mali, Senegal and Gambia to follow the trail of the kora, a unique West African harp with 21 strings, said to have been created by the djinns.
This AHRC-funded research explores a distinct pattern of imagination: Chinese calligraphy in the transmedia context.
Maqām Beyond Nation explores a field of music-making that stretches from North Africa to Central Asia; a set of historically fluid and inter-connected creative practices which were transformed under 20th century nationalisms into fixed repertoires.
Documenting the collections of Chemrey Monastery Museum in Ladakh.
Tracing the trajectories of Yuanmingyuan objects from China to Britain and France.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-humanities/school-history-religions-and-philosophies:
Our degree programmes cover the rich histories, systems of religious belief, and philosophical traditions of Africa, Asia, and the Middle East.
We are unique for being the original and path-breaking UK higher education institution that specialises in teaching and researching history, religion, and philosophy in a critical, decolonial, and interdisciplinary manner.
We have also led and continue to lead the world in research and education provision that makes sense of history, religion, and philosophy in a transformative way that counters westerncentric and eurocentric disciplinary models.
We are the principal intellectual home of scholarly efforts that explore in-depth the dynamic and interconnected histories, religions, and philosophies of the Global South.
" If you are interested in studying History, Religion, Philosophy, and Liberal Arts from global, decolonial and inclusive perspectives, in ways that are theoretically robust and transformative, and attentive to lived and existential experiences, this is the best place to be.
A rich research environment that demonstrates impact.
A new SOAS project has created free learning resources for secondary school teachers to address the legacies of colonialism.
An education rooted in humanities and social sciences gives you timeless skills that help you adapt to a rapidly changing world.
In this blog, author Aline Desdevises explores a particular dimension of West African rural communities’ resilience facing environmental change regarding health risks and healthcare.
In a reflection on the notion of a collective village repertoire and its digitisation, authors Elara Bertho and Aguibou Sow outline the research-action programme carried out with the Malian association Donkosira, which since 2017 has aimed to digitally conserve local knowledge in rural communities.
Advocacy expert Illia Djadi discusses several advocacy training sessions to village relays of the Watigueleya Kèlê project (Climate Resilience in West Africa).
This project produced state-of-the art editions of the core ritual texts of the Zoroastrian religion and an interactive film of a performance of the ritual.
Dr Yousef Moradi created a catalogue of bullae he excavated at Taxt-e Sulaymān in Iran.
This project develops a technology for annotating textual structure within IIIF.
This project will analyse and publish newly discovered bullae and the seal impression they bear from one of the most important fire temples of Sasanian Iran.
The project challenges the exclusion in the dominant understanding of philosophical traditions and of philosophical knowledge as essentially textual, exploring the non-textuality of philosophical knowledge in African places with a specific focus on oral and symbolic forms of knowledge.
A public engagement project that brings together academics, healthcare workers and persons with disabilities to collectively and creatively understand and challenge deeply rooted philosophies and beliefs about disabilities.
Avestan Ritual in India (AVINDIA) is a 5-year project will film the performance of a Visperad ceremony in India and will seek to detect, describe, visualise and analyse how the ritual is structured as systematically organised activity, and to reconstruct its genesis and historical trajectory.
In today’s Age of Overload, we are drowning in data – hyperconnected yet experiencing an epidemic of loneliness.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges-schools-and-departments/college-humanities/our-research:
Our research at the College of Humanities is known for internationalism, interdisciplinarity, and engagement with marginalised peoples, languages, and cultures and knowledge exchange.
We host a number of vibrant research centres, such as the Centre for Global and Comparative Philosophies, the Centre for Translation Studies, and the Centre of Buddhist Studies, and externally funded research projects, for example, language revitalisation, Avestan ritual in India, maqām music, African literature and film, and the restitution of Southeast Asian Art.
Researchers in the College regularly collaborate with UK-based and international partners and non-academic communities to challenge inequalities and injustice and create positive change and impact.
"Our specialised and interdisciplinary research is inspiring and much of it is grounded in our distinctive Area Studies approach at SOAS.
Our researchers are also closely engaged with non-academic partners and organisations, and share their research with others to bring about ethical transformations of the world."
The Centre for Cultural, Literary and Postcolonial Studies at SOAS University of London.
The Centre for Global and Comparative Philosophies at SOAS University of London.
Centre for Jewish Studies at SOAS University of London
The Centre for the Study of Japanese Religions at SOAS University of London.
The Centre of Buddhist Studies at SOAS University of London.
The Centre of Islamic Studies at SOAS University of London.
The aim of the Centre of Jaina Studies (COJS) is to promote the study of Jaina religion and culture by providing an interdisciplinary platform for academic research, teaching and publication in the field of Jaina Studies.
Centre of World Christianity at SOAS University of London
SOAS Shapoorji Pallonji Institute of Zoroastrian Studies (SSPIZS) at SOAS University of London.
Established in 2008, SOAS’s Centre for Translation Studies aims to explore and develop area-based translation studies across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our PhD researchers are a very active and engaged group of scholars from around the world working within and across many disciplines and regions.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges-schools-and-departments/college-humanities/our-teaching:
Teaching at The College of Humanities is interdisciplinary and has equipped generations of SOAS students with the skills to address complex problems from different perspectives.
Studying in the College of Humanities at SOAS is unique in the UK.
We go beyond the study of non-European languages, cultures, and histories solely from a ‘Western’ perspective.
Our interdisciplinary humanities curriculum has equipped generations of SOAS humanities students with the skills to address complex problems from different perspectives, and this is reflected in the varied and impactful careers of our alumni.
Academics here are renowned experts in their fields, teaching a variety of modules from literature in the Middle East, Taoist thought or the cinemas and popular cultures of Asia.
Our classrooms are multicultural environments, and we boast a vibrant community of learners and teachers from across the world.
"We are dedicated to the study of Africa, Asia and the Middle East, and offer a depth and breadth that is still unusual after 100 years.
Our degrees question eurocentrism, debunk orientalist structures and are truly decolonised.
They open the mind to the world beyond."
Within our College community, we proudly host over 100 academics representing 30 countries, each bringing their unique expertise spanning a wide array of disciplines and topics.
The College of Humanities’s Critical Pedagogy Group operates as an experimental space for academic staff and all CoHUM students to collaborate on investigating and co-creating ways in which the activities of teaching and learning in the College can be made more innovative and inclusive with regard to gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, class, and disability.
Masami, a BA East Asian Studies student, delves into factors contributing to Studio Ghibli's international success and how the films may influence global perceptions of Japan.
This project is designed to train early career researchers (ECR) to create and manage digital data in agreement with the FAIR principle (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable).
Caera spent a year studying abroad in Osaka, Japan.
She shares what she enjoyed the most, from exploring the country to trying out the local cuisine.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/school-languages-cultures-and-linguistics/african:
Welcome!
Karibuni sana!
Soo dhowaada!
The Africa Department houses the largest concentration of scholars devoted to the study of African languages and other forms of cultural expression in sub-Saharan Africa.
This collective expertise furnishes us with a capacity for teaching and research that is without parallel elsewhere.
We have unrivalled expertise in the languages of Africa, covering Swahili, Somali, Amharic, Zulu and Hausa.
Students can study literature in English and in African languages, African film and philosophy
Find out who our academics are at the African Languages, Cultures and Literatures Section
Research in the Africa section focuses on the languages and cultures of Africa through the lenses of literature, philosophy and linguistics.
Members of the section conduct research on new vernacular registers such as Sheng in Kenya, rural multilingualism in West Africa, and the manifold genres expressing philosophical thought in Africa.
Oral and written poetry traditions (for instance in Somali) and African writing, including Ajami writing, are also core areas of investigation.
Research in the section is strongly rooted in expertise in African indigenous languages but also encompasses the continents’ languages of European provenance.
We are home to the Journal of African Cultural Studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-humanities/school-history-religions-and-philosophies/department-history:
We lead the world in research and teaching about the histories of Asia and Africa.
According to the newly-published QS World University Rankings by Subject, SOAS History has ascended to 44th in the world and 11th in the UK.
We are the only history department that does history from the perspective of Asia and Africa, rather than through a western-centric framework.
Studying with us allows you to explore the dynamic histories of these regions in depth and to work closely with world-renowned historians whose research is building a new way of looking at the world as a whole.
We approach those histories by focusing on a range of topics, including culture, religion, gender, economics, law, politics, technology, and warfare.
We will help you to develop the valuable critical thinking, research, and writing skills that will enable you to make a difference in the world in whatever career you choose.
We offer a variety of BA, MA, and PhD programme options.
"Housing many experts and researchers in global traditions of History, the department boasts unparalleled expertise in the histories of Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, with a focus on classical and contemporary themes including gender, politics, technology, and warfare."
LLB student Halima Fahm addresses this year's Black History Month theme of 'reclaiming narratives' and argues for a more balanced, affirmative narrative of Black History in Western education.
SOAS MA History graduate and secondary school teacher Hamidah Siddiqua discusses his experience studying at SOAS and reflects on what he learnt about the British education system colonial lens.
Analysing the past and present links between forced displacement and descent-based slavery in Western Mali.
Contributing to the fight against descent-based slavery in Mali through the creation of a video game for mobiles.
Making local cultures visible and turning local actors from rural West African areas into producers of knowledge.
Long-term resilience strategies developed by marginalised communities to respond to socioecological stress and climate-related disasters in West Africa.
Research conducted by Dr Marie Rodet  has raised awareness of the history of internal slavery in Mali, transmitted previously lost history between elders and the younger generations, and exposed enduring discrimination against populations with ascribed status as descendants of former slaves.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/school-arts/department-history-art-and-archaeology:
The Department is unique in its coverage of the arts, archaeology, architecture and material culture of Asia, Africa and the Middle East from ancient times to the present day.
Our research and teaching focusses on objects of art and material culture from the arts and cultures of Asia, the Middle East and Africa, and their global diasporas.
In this respect our location in central London, surrounded by museums, galleries and cultural centres, contributes to an unforgettable and enriching student experience.
We are also deeply committed to thematic and theoretical investigations into art, architecture, archaeology and museology: we want to foster the kind of critical thinking that we believe our graduates should have in order to face the challenges of and make a difference in our changing world.
The graduates of our programmes, from BA to PGDip, MA and PhD, go on to enjoy successful careers across the globe across the arts: in museums and galleries – as directors, curators, exhibition and education officers, conservators, registrars and fundraisers - as well as in auction houses, libraries and archives, academia, arts-based charities and fashion design.
We are the only department in the world to offer thematic and theoretical investigations into art, architecture, archaeology and museology from the arts and cultures of Asia, the Middle East and Africa, and their global diasporas.
Our research and teaching is led by top-ranking experts with in-depth regional and disciplinary expertise.
We aim to foster the kind of critical thinking that we believe our graduates should have in order to make a difference in our changing world.
The vibrancy of SOAS, our world-class library and our location in central London, surrounded by museums, galleries and cultural centres, contributes to an unforgettable and enriching student experience.
Charlotte Horlyck received her PhD from SOAS in 2006, and was appointed Lecturer in Korean Art History at SOAS in 2007.
Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2022
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide rankings for Art History 2022
SOAS’s Department of the History of Art and Archaeology is internationally unique in its broad coverage of the visual arts, architecture and material culture of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Spanning geographically from Japan to Morocco and chronologically over millennia, the Department’s range of teaching and research interests is unmatched.
No other British, European or American university provides the variety it offers for the study of Asian, African and Middle Eastern art.
The research expertise of the Department supports multidisciplinary research projects and the cultural output of major museums and galleries, including their education and outreach programmes.
As well as the international art trade, it supports the conservation and understanding of cultures, arts and artefacts in the SOAS specialist regions of Asia, Africa and the Middle East and their diasporas.
We are increasingly interested in digital and interactive arts, including AR and VR, capitalising on our expertise in visual cultures and narratives and on the interdisciplinary environment of the School of Arts, where we work alongside colleagues in musicology, film and screen studies and creative and cultural industries.
For Women's History Month, Maria Rollo (Collections & Engagement Officer, SOAS Gallery) introduces the work and lives of three artists whose work resides in the SOAS Gallery Collections.
SOAS academic Dr Monika Hinkel shares her experience curating 'Yoshida: Three Generations of Japanese Printmaking' at the Dulwich Picture Gallery.
When three brass Buddha statues turned up at the SOAS Gallery, the team had to find out where they came from.
Lucy Kauser takes us on a journey of what happened next.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges-schools-and-departments/college-humanities/school-languages-cultures-and-0:
Our department is focused on linguistic study in an unparalleled range of languages, many of which we are documenting for the first time.
They include languages of Africa, the Near and Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia, Central Asia, Australia, the Pacific, and Siberia.
Our research interests cover a wide range of theoretical and applied aspects of linguistics, including syntax, phonology, semantics, sociolinguistics, historical linguistics, linguistic typology, multilingualism, lexicography, language pedagogy and translation studies.
Our research strengths include:
Find out about SOAS alum Joshua Zukas's career, from studying languages and linguistics to becoming a published travel writer in Vietnam.
Alum Dr Ross Perlin discusses his new book 'Language City: The Fight to Preserve Endangered Mother Tongues in New York' and how his MA at SOAS shaped his career.
Exploring linguistic similarities within a sample of Bantu languages.
Investigating multilingualism and language contact between three languages spoken at the “crossroads” – a group of neighbouring villages in the Casamance area of Senegal.
Implementing an innovative scientific strategy and capacity building at universities across Europe.
Improving our understanding of how and why languages tend to change when they come into contact, with a particular focus on Arabic.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-humanities/school-arts/department-music:
The Department of Music at SOAS is a world-leading centre for the study of music from Asia, Africa, the Middle East and their diasporas, located in the heart of a city famous for its thriving and diverse musical cultures.
We offer a BA in Music, which can be taken in combination with a wide range of subjects; a multi-disciplinary BA in Creative Arts; a Master’s degree in Music, with pathways in Ethnomusicology, Performance, and Music in Development; and an MPhil/PhD in music research.
Our research and teaching focusses on musical cultures and sonic practices from Asia, the Middle East and Africa, and their global diasporas.
We are unique in our core principle that these regions deserve to be foregrounded in the study of music.
We benefit from our location in central London, a global stage for musicians, artists, and producers, which contributes to an unforgettable and enriching student experience.
We are deeply committed to critical investigation into the place of music and sound in society, and our work examines how music speaks to other disciplines, from history to development studies.
We want to foster the kind of critical thinking that we believe our graduates should have in order to navigate the possibilities and challenges of our changing world.
Music of South Asia; Hindustani classical music; historical ethnomusicology; cultural history; historical musicology and musical aesthetics; lyric, song, and musical literature; music and gender; music and religion; history of emotions
Explore the academic staff at the Department of Music.
Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021
The Department of Music is the largest centre of ethnomusicology in Europe, offering unique educational and research opportunities.
The special character of the Department has attracted excellent ratings for teaching and research.
Our academics are actively involved in international music and research projects and bring extensive industry experience to their work, encompassing radio and music production and heritage and sustainability.
Staff and students pursue research on a wide range of subjects, mainly but not exclusively focused on the music of Asia and Africa and their diasporas, including both traditional and popular musics.
Staff have regional interests in the music of China and Central Asia (Harris), India and South Asia (Williams), Israel and the Jewish diaspora (Webster-Kogen), Cuba and west Africa (Durán) and southern and eastern Africa (Impey).
Music is studied as a cultural phenomenon, and also from analytical and historical perspectives.
On campus, we are home to a stunning collection of musical instruments and state of the art recording facilities.
Valentina shares her favourite weekly jam sessions around London that put community first and showcase the city's alternative music scene.
An interview with SOAS alumna, Eliane Correa about her career as a pianist, MD and composer.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/colleges/college-humanities/school-history-religions-and-philosophies/department-religions:
At SOAS, you can study a wider range of religious and philosophical traditions than any other programme in the field.
With our highly diverse expertise, our comprehensive resources, and our interdisciplinary approach we offer a unique learning and research environment for a truly inter-cultural approach to systems of belief and thought in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
"With expertise in several philosophical and religious traditions in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, the research, teaching, and learning experiences that this department provides challenge Eurocentric narratives and are truly decolonial, exceptional and unmatched."
To celebrate World Religion Day we've pulled together a list of the seven most breathtaking and impressive religious buildings around the world.
Using digital tools to produce a new edition of the Pahlavi Yasna, chapters 9–11.
An online survey to explore different views and practices within the current global Zoroastrian community and those close to it.
Enabling the annotation of textual structure in Zoroastrian manuscript images, and the locating of particular text passages within.
Examining the performance and written transmission of the core ritual of the Zoroastrian tradition, the Yasna.
Transforming our knowledge and understanding of an ancient poem, bringing the story alive for countless readers among the general public, students and creative artists.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/school-languages-cultures-and-linguistics/japan-and:
SOAS is home to the largest collection of Japan specialists outside of Japan, and the largest concentration of Korean specialists in Europe.
The diversified expertise of the Japan and Korea Department allows you to gain focused specialist knowledge, both in classical traditions and contemporary developments, together with the study of these languages – both at SOAS and at our many prestigious partner universities in Japan and Korea.
We combine theoretical and textual approaches and critically cross-examine western intellectual traditions and regional ones.
Find out about the academics and expertise at the Japan and Korea Section
The cultures of both Japan and Korea have become increasingly familiar to Western audiences over the course of the twentieth century.
Manga and anime, K- and J-pop, TV shows and film, food, fashion and computer games have become a fascinating part of global popular culture.
Many also continue to be drawn to the rich diversity and dynamism of the two countries’ pre-modern literary, religious, artistic and philosophical cultures.
Yet, despite such increasing familiarity, many stereotypes remain about Japanese and Korean cultures and their languages, which are often thought to be 'inaccessible' and 'obscure'.
Our degrees aim to shatter these stereotypes, to allow you to master the languages, and to gain a deep and comprehensive understanding of the historical development of the cultures of Japan and Korea and their place in the modern world.
The Department of the Languages and Cultures of Japan and Korea has staff and students actively researching into a wide range of cultural and linguistic subjects relating to Japan and Korea.
The SOAS-AKS Working Papers in Korean Studies are an outlet for research-in-progress by European, Korean and Global scholarship.
Open to a wide range of contributions in the field of Korean Studies, it is particularly aimed at the dissemination of research that has been conducted or presented under the auspices of the SOAS-AKS Institution Grant Project.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/school-languages-cultures-and-linguistics/china-and:
The China and Inner Asia section covers one of the oldest, yet most dynamic and important regions of the world.
Demand for specialists with advanced proficiency in the languages of this region has significantly increased in recent years.
The choice of languages in our Section is unmatched in Europe.
The teaching of the Chinese (Mandarin, Cantonese, and Hokkien) and Tibetan languages is a major part of our undergraduate syllabuses.
Find out about the academics and expertise at the China and Inner Asia Section
China's economic growth over recent decades, its growing importance as a major political power in international affairs, its relationship with Hong Kong, along with increased contact between China and the West, has seen a corresponding rise of interest amongst Western audiences to travel to, or learn about, the cultural and social life of the region.
Tibetan Studies has been taught at SOAS since 1950 – the first UK Higher Education Institution to offer it.
Yet, despite such increasing familiarity and the motivation to learn about the rich diversity and dynamism of literary, religious, artistic and philosophical cultures, many stereotypes remain about China and Taiwan, their cultures and their languages.
Our degrees aim to shatter these stereotypes, to allow you to master the languages, and to gain a deep and comprehensive understanding of the historical development of the cultures of China, Taiwan and Tibet and their place in the modern world.
The Department covers, through teaching and research, the language-based study of the cultures of China and Inner Asia, with a focus on materials in modern and classical Chinese and modern and classical Tibetan.
We are able to supervise MPhil and PhD research in a wide range of cultural and linguistic subjects.
Prospective research students should not feel constrained to limit their choice of topics to those indicated against the names of current staff members (postgraduate students have recently been working on such diverse topics as colour symbolism in ancient Chinese texts, Chinese cinema, and Chinese Braille systems, and translation studies).
If necessary, arrangements can be made for joint supervision with teachers from other departments or institutions of SOAS or the University of London.
Research undertaken at MPhil and PhD level is based on literary, documentary, and archive materials in the languages of the area and/or on fieldwork conducted in those languages.
Staff research interests include language, linguistics, translation studies, classical philology and philosophy, cultural and intellectual history, popular culture, cinema, visual culture and media technology, literature, drama, theatre and performance studies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/school-languages-cultures-and-linguistics/near-and:
The Near and Middle East Department provides expertise in a region which stretches from North Africa to the borders of China and has produced some the world’s greatest civilisations.
We were the first UK department to offer both MA Palestine Studies and MA Israeli Studies concurrently.
Our Arabic programmes are second to none, and we offer a comprehensive study of modern and classical Persian and Turkish.
We host the Centre for Islamic Studies which organises conferences, publications and runs an international journal.
Find out about the academics and expertise at the Near and Middle East Section
Complete University Guide 2021 (Middle Eastern and African Studies)
The Middle East has been of vital geostrategic importance throughout its history and never more so than at the present time.
Its location at the juncture of Africa, Asia and Europe has made it into a singularly rich meeting point of cultures, languages and religions but also into a theatre of conflicts.
There is no better way to get to know this complex and pivotal part of the world than by studying its languages.
They are the key to communicate with its people, to unlock its culture and history and to engage with it for the purpose of a career.
SOAS degrees offer an unrivalled opportunity to do just this.
The combination of high level language instruction, training in a range of disciplines and first hand experience of the region provides graduates excellent qualifications for any of the increasing number of jobs in which Middle Eastern expertise is of relevance.
A unique concentration of world-class teaching and research on 5,000 years of culture, from cuneiform and ziggurats to Arabic and Islamic revolution.
The wide range of subjects studied within the Department of Languages and Cultures of the Near and Middle East reflects not only the present economic and political importance of the region, but also the diversity and historical depth of culture within an area that stretches from North Africa to the borders of China and includes some of the most ancient cradles of civilisation and the birth-places of several of the world’s great religions.
The Department has received excellent ratings for both teaching and research, and many members of staff have been awarded major grants by funding bodies such as the British Academy and the Leverhulme Trust.
MA degrees and research supervision are offered in an impressively broad range of fields, spanning the languages and cultures of the Ancient Near East, medieval and modern Iran, Central Asia and the Caucasus, the Jewish tradition, and the Islamic world.
Although linguistic and literary studies form the core of the department’s work, some of its staff also specialise in the study of religions, and others have particular interests in such fields as cinema and music.
Their expertise is complemented by that of Middle Eastern specialists in other SOAS departments, such as Art and Archaeology, History and Political Studies, the whole adding up to a unique concentration of world-class teaching and research.
With the Qatar World Cup just days away, Digital Ambassador Rachael reflects on the issues and controversies overshadowing the popular tournament.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/school-languages-cultures-and-linguistics/south-asia:
The department benefits enormously from its world leading experts across the disciplines, including History, Religious Studies, Music, Art, Politics, Anthropology, adding depth and texture to our research and studies.
Together we make-up one of the largest centres of South Asian studies outside the subcontinent, which brings incalculable benefits to our students.
Find out about the wide array of academics and researchers at the South Asia Section
The study of language gives unique access to the culture of a region, to its contemporary life and its historical civilization.
Starting from this premise, the South Asia Section of the School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics is devoted to research and teaching in the languages, literatures, cinemas and cultures of the Indian subcontinent, with the aim of reaching better understanding of one of the most complex and significant areas of the world.
Our teaching and research complements other SOAS’s South Asianists in various disciplines and other departments within the School; together we constitute one of the largest centres of South Asian studies outside the subcontinent.
Our staff research interests are wide and include Indian cinema and popular culture, diaspora studies, postcolonial literature, literary and linguistic studies (associated particularly with Hindi, Urdu, Bengali, Nepali, and Sanskrit), classical Hinduism, feminism, representations of Islam, the politics of Nepal and Bhutan, and literary translation.
The Department offers the widest coverage in Europe of research and teaching related to the languages, literatures and cultures of the principal countries of South Asia: Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.
The Department’s primary commitment is to eight languages (Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Nepali, Pali, Punjabi, Sanskrit, and Urdu) and their literatures and cultures.
It also offers language instruction in Sinhala and Tamil.
Research and teaching draw heavily upon the resources of the Library’s extensive South Asia collection, and is closely connected with the work of other SOAS departments.
The research interests of the Department’s members include:
MA student Surabhi reflects on her time at SOAS, what she's learned and the tools and confidence she's gained.
Why does Pakistan underperform on most social and political indicators when it has adequate economic growth?
In a post-truth world, India has seen history subverted to follow a specific agenda of Hindu nationalism.
Documenting and analysing the cultural and political impacts of Nepal’s 2015 earthquakes.
Transforming the teaching of both the history and practice of yoga in universities, schools and yoga studios in Europe and the United States.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about-soas/colleges-schools-and-departments/school-languages-cultures-and-linguistics/south-east:
The South East Asia department of the School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics is unique in the UK as a centre for teaching and research on the languages, literatures, cinemas and cultures of South East Asia.
Our academic and teaching staff are committed to encouraging a world-leading environment for students and researchers.
SOAS provides unrivalled access to this culturally diverse, fast developing and strategically important region.
Find out about the wide array of academics and researchers at the South East Asia Section
South East Asia is a diverse region with a fascinating mix of cultures, languages, religions and traditions.
It is also a dynamic, fast developing region that is assuming an increasingly important strategic role in global affairs.
Nothing can match the intensity and depth of engagement with a different culture than that achieved through knowledge of a local language and in our section we are committed to delivering specialist language-based scholarship in combination with regional focus and disciplinary skills.
We collaborate with several universities across South East Asia to offer our students an opportunity to spend a year of study abroad.
The year abroad takes place during the third year of study and provides a unique opportunity for students to advance their linguistic skills, gain a deeper insight into different societies and cultures and apply their skills to independent study projects.
The Department offers the widest coverage in Europe of research and teaching related to the languages, literatures, and cultures of the principal countries of South East Asia, and is the only department of a British university within which these subjects can be studied as part of a named degree.
Its primary commitment is to five languages (Burmese, Indonesian/Malay, Khmer, Thai, and Vietnamese) and their literatures, cinemas and associated cultures.
The research and teaching in this Department draw heavily upon the resources of the Library’s extensive South East Asia collection, and are closely connected with the work of many of the School’s other Departments.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/painting-through-colonial-lens-how-british-prints-shaped-how-southern-india-was:
Himantika Mann
Published 12 August 2025
An MA student, Himantika Mann, looks at three prints of Southern India by British artists and asks: what do they show, what do they leave out, and what can they still teach us about art, empire, and the politics of seeing?
In the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, as the British Empire expanded across South India, artists like Thomas and William Daniell and Henry Salt travelled in its wake.
They sketched temples, forts, and landscapes that were later transformed into aquatints and engravings for British audiences eager for scenes of distant grandeur.
These images - now held in the SOAS collections - shaped how India was imagined: monumental, spiritual, and timeless.
Their work belonged to the Picturesque movement, a style popularised by figures like William Gilpin, which favoured dramatic ruins, irregular forms, and romantic decay, shown in Gilpin's Observations on the River Wye .
Yet these prints were not neutral documents.
They reflect the selective gaze of empire: architecture is emphasised, ritual life is removed, and conflict is quietly left outside the frame.
They were made possible by British military victories - Tipu Sultan’s defeat had only recently opened these regions to European travellers, and they reflect the selective gaze of empire: architecture is emphasised, ritual life is removed, and conflict is quietly left outside the frame.
As an Indian student studying at SOAS - a university founded in 1916 to train colonial administrators - I now encounter these images from a different position.
Once displayed in imperial drawing rooms, today they rest silently in archival drawers, seen by students and scholars who question rather than affirm their vision.
That shift is part of the story.
This post looks closely at three prints of Southern India - two by the Daniells, one by Salt - and asks: what do they show, what do they leave out, and what can they still teach us about art, empire, and the politics of seeing.
These prints do not merely reflect what was there; they shape what their audiences believed India to be.
To understand how artists like Salt and the Daniells constructed imperial visions of India, we must look closely at the edges of the frame, the choices of inclusion and omission, and the shifts between what was drawn, engraved, and published.
Salt’s engraving of the Pagoda at Ramisseram (known present-day as Rameswaram), published in 1809, offers a carefully balanced view of the towering east gopura and surrounding structure.
The perspective is frontal and architectural: wide foreground, scattered human figures, and the looming temple gate, dark and incomplete.
What’s striking is what doesn’t appear.
The monumental gopura is clearly present but unfinished, confirmed by recent scholarship, which notes that the superstructure of the east gate was not completed until between 1897 and 1904 (Crispin Branfoot and Lennart Bes, “From All Quarters of the Indian World: The Temple at Rameshvaram, Hindu Kings, and Dutch Merchants,” Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society - forthcoming).
Salt’s drawing from 1804 captures this transitional state, a moment when the sacred architecture had not yet achieved the towering form familiar today.
But instead of marking incompletion, the image abstracts it - suggesting grandeur without full clarity.
What remains is...a composition suited to the British taste for the exotic, but not its complexity.
Even more revealing is a comparison between the published aquatint and Salt’s original watercolour, which I examined at the British Library.
The watercolour contains additional figures, a statue beneath a canopy in the left foreground, and a richer detail of jali screens—all absent in the final print.
These elements lend texture to the scene: a glimpse of the temple as a living, inhabited space.
Their removal in the engraving sharpens the architectural drama but erases the life of the site.
The temple at Rameshvaram was, and remains, a site of extraordinary religious importance - its long corridors lined with life-sized sculptures of donors, kings, and attendants from the 17th and 18th centuries.
Early visitors remarked on these figures: painted, garlanded, and sometimes honoured by name.
Yet none of them appear in Salt’s published print.
The framing privileges structure over story, monument over memory.
What remains is a print that monumentalises the sacred while muting its cultural specificity - a composition suited to the British taste for the exotic, but not its complexity.
This print from the Oriental Scenery series offers a frontal view of the great Nandi bull at the Brihadisvara temple in Tanjore.
The sculpture - a sacred mount of Shiva - dominates the image, framed by evenly spaced pillars and a deep sense of recession.
But the composition, while architecturally pleasing, is visually manipulated.
Lord Valentia, who visited the temple in 1804, noted that the Daniells had exaggerated the spacing of the pillars to better reveal the bull ( Archer, Early Views of India ).
Though the number of columns is correct, the intervals have been artificially widened, altering the real spatial rhythm of the temple.
What might have been an active site of daily religious practice is rendered as an object of serene admiration - India reimagined as architecture.
In doing so, the Daniells turn Nandi from a devotional object to a spectacle.
The scale is magnified, and the context is abstracted.
The spiritual atmosphere of the temple is flattened into formal harmony.
No worshippers appear.
No rituals are suggested.
In contrast to the monumental calm of Tanjore, this print offers a Romantic landscape: the rugged hill-fort of Verapadroog, cloaked in vegetation, perched above dense jungle.
The scene is dramatic, but still - there are no signs of conflict, occupation, or movement.
Yet history tells a different story.
The Barramahal hills had only recently been ceded to the British after Tipu Sultan’s defeat in the 1792 treaty.
The Daniells’ own journals mention passing through five defensive gates and encountering a local officer collecting the grain - a sign of recent military action.
The fort itself was still associated with Tipu’s resistance, and the jungle below teemed, as one of the Daniells wrote, with "tygers" and danger.
None of this makes it into the print.
Instead, Verapadroog becomes a picturesque ruin, folded into the aesthetic lexicon of the sublime.
The fort is framed not as a political site, but as a visual one - a perfect mountain perch for the British eye.
The landscape is not simply recorded - it is reordered, aestheticised, and depoliticised.
Together, these three prints offer more than artistic variation.
They reveal a pattern of transformation: from encounter to composition, from event to image.
India, as seen through these prints, becomes legible to the empire - but not to itself.
Today, these prints lie quietly in drawers at SOAS.
Once, they helped train colonial administrators to see India as timeless, grand, and knowable.
Now, they invite different questions: What do they reveal?
What do they erase?
As an Indian student researching these images in the former imperial centre, I encounter them with a double awareness.
They are both artworks and artefacts of power: images that flattened living landscapes into picturesque scenes fit for British eyes.
The choices Salt and the Daniells made - what to include, what to omit - were not neutral.
They turned temples into architectural studies, sacred sculptures into spectacles, and sites of recent conquest into tranquil ruins.
That these prints are now kept in the SOAS Gallery’s storage - once hung around the university and now shown on a rotating basis in the Foyle Gallery - is part of their story, and mine too.
SOAS, once founded to train colonial officers, has become a place for rethinking what such images meant and what they still mean.
The act of looking again becomes a form of critique: not rejecting these prints but reading them against their grain.
To study them now is to see both what they showed and what they refused to see - and, perhaps, to imagine what new stories they might help us tell.
The three prints currently on display in the Foyle Gallery are in the dedicated space for the SOAS Permanent Collections on the ground floor of the SOAS Gallery .
Himantika Mann studies MA Curating Cultures at SOAS University of London.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/top-5-ways-i-made-friends-japan-and-how-you-can-too:
Natasja Jacobs
Published 16 May 2025
Natasja is a BA Japanese and History of Art student on her year abroad studying in Tokyo, Japan.
Now starting her final term, she puts forward her top five strategies to make meaningful friendships in Japan
Before setting off on my year abroad in Japan, I had often been warned about how lonely living in Tokyo can be, from Japanese people’s reluctance to befriend foreigners to intricate social hierarchies that can be tricky to navigate, even for Japanese people!
I am now about to start my third term at my study abroad university , ICU in Tokyo, and my experience could not be further from the alienation and loneliness I expected to feel.
Here are the top 5 ways I made friends in Japan, including actionable tips so that you can feel confident going into your year abroad.
Going to live in a country where you know no one can be daunting.
This is why making friends before leaving for Japan was game-changing.
The SOAS Japan Society is a great way to meet exchange students from your year abroad destination before you leave.
Since SOAS year-abroad programs run on an exchange basis, many students from Japan spend a year at SOAS before returning home, just as you head to their university.
In my second year, I became friends with a student from the university I planned to attend in Japan, which gave me the reassurance of already knowing someone before moving abroad.
Language exchange programs are a fantastic way to improve your conversation skills and meet open-minded students interested in your language and culture.
While still studying at SOAS, I joined a Japanese-English exchange program with my study abroad university.
What began as an email exchange became video calls and eventually turned into lunches on campus in Japan and even a day trip.
Some of my friends in Japan also made connections through pen-pal schemes advertised in a magazine and language apps like HelloTalk.
Making friends abroad is in many ways just the same as making friends at SOAS.
Joining clubs is the ultimate tried and tested way to meet new people who share your interests.
At my Japanese university, I was able to make friends by joining the track and field club and the Japanese-English language exchange club.
I particularly recommend clubs that focus on learning English because they will give you access to a pool of open-minded people who want to make foreign friends.
At first, I can’t deny that I was unsure about sharing a room with a stranger.
However, this turned out to be one of the best decisions I made.
My roommate was a great first point of contact.
From the start, she has been patient with my Japanese and very kind in helping me fill out the notoriously tedious Japanese paperwork.
The presence of another person where you live, even if you are not close, can be very comforting in a sprawling city like Tokyo.
If room-sharing is not for you, simply living in university halls offers an instant sense of community, making the transition abroad feel less isolating.
Initially, I was troubled by the idea that "foreigners will never integrate into Japanese society," which made me question if making friends in such a homogeneous country was possible.
Adjusting to Japanese etiquette and customs can be difficult, so it is no wonder that many long-term foreign residents report still feeling like outsiders.
However, embracing my identity as a foreigner has often helped me make friends, as my cultural differences sparked conversations with people interested in international exchange.
It has been these conversations that blossomed into friendships that transcend cultural boundaries.
Before my year abroad in Japan, I was worried I would feel isolated and be stunted by cultural barriers.
However, my experience has been the opposite.
By making friends who live in Japan before I arrived, joining clubs, participating in language exchanges, and embracing shared living, I have built meaningful friendships.
Through these experiences, I have found that cultural differences can enable friendships.
Bonds built on mutual respect, curiosity and openness have been the most rewarding part of my year abroad so far and have opened my eyes to new perspectives and lifestyles.
Natasja studies BA Japanese and History of Art and is currently on her year abroad studying in Tokyo, Japan.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/my-year-soas-being-part-museum-community-feels-dream-come-true:
Linshu Shen
Published 1 May 2025
Linshu reflects on her time at SOAS studying MA History of Art and Archaeology, immersing herself in London’s museum scene through research, curation and volunteering.
A few years ago, I made a big decision: to leave my job and pursue what I’m truly passionate about—art history and archaeology.
Working in a museum has long been my dream, and SOAS felt like the gateway to making that dream a reality.
The academic environment here has been like sunshine—it illuminated new perspectives for me.
The teaching and the inspiring approach to learning have transformed the way I think and how I see the world.
Over the past year, I’ve come to realise that academic research plays to my strengths.
We've had the opportunity to explore the study rooms of the British Museum and the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, particularly in the Asia and Coins departments, and to handle real objects—from Dunhuang manuscripts and ancient Gandharan Buddhist sculptures to early Central Asian coins.
I also had the opportunity to co-curate an exhibition with my fellow students on cross-cultural ceramics, which is currently on display at the SOAS Library.
The exhibition even caught the attention of a British Library curator!
One of the biggest highlights for me has been becoming a volunteer at the British Museum.
Being part of the museum community feels like a dream come true.
And of course, London life added its own sparkle—Van Gogh at the National Gallery, red carpet at the London Film Festival, and boarding the Hogwarts train as a true Harry Potter fan.
There’s more to come, I can feel it.
Linshu Shen is a Student Content Creator at SOAS, studying MA History of Art and Archaeology.
MA History of Art and Archaeology at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/my-teacher-reading-list-research-highlights-school-history-religions-and-philosophies:
Published 11 April 2025
My teacher is on the reading list is a blog series that highlights some of the work of SOAS academics—this time, Lilly spotlights scholars from the School of History, Religion and Philosophy.
As term two winds down, I often catch myself, somewhere between annotated bibliographies and group presentations, comparing my experience in the School of Languages, Cultures, and Linguistics with that of my peers in other departments.
It might surprise you that, beyond an overarching SOAS pedagogy—most critically, centring theory from Africa, Asia, and the Middle East—each school has its own approach to instruction.
That’s to say, SOAS isn’t interested in a one-size-fits-all policy (thankfully).
While I might not experience firsthand how the School of History, Religions and Philosophies structures its undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, I can be nosy and study up on their faculty’s publications - some of which, to my (un)surprise, are already on my TBR list.
It’s an impossible task to choose just one of Dr Imafidon’s research focuses to highlight; he has published everything from a Springer Handbook on African Philosophy of Difference to articles concerned with ontologized ethics, communo-cognition, and analytic somaesthetics.
Alongside Dr Charlotte Baker, Dr Imafidon edited the volume Cultural Representations of Albinism in Africa Narratives of Change .
The introduction alone is a spectacular overview of cultural representations of albinism within Africa and the way in which narrative impacts the advocacy of albinism.
For anyone interested in the history of Southern Africa, particularly South Africa’s social and political transformations, Dr Dooling’s work is essential reading.
Featured in podcasts, academic journals, and books, his research spans centuries of political struggle, with Cape Town often serving as its geographic focal point.
The article “'Cape Town Knows, but She Forgets’: Segregation and the Making of a Housing Crisis during the First Half of the 20th Century” is a compelling example of his more recent scholarship.
When she’s not advising PhD students on topics ranging from Thai interpretations of Buddhist hells to astrological cults in Korean Buddhism, Professor Dolce is a leading scholar in Japanese religious culture, with perhaps one of the longest bibliographies on the SOAS website.
Currently, her research focuses on the discourse of the body in the ritual landscape of medieval Japanese Buddhism, as well as the relationship between Buddhism and Shinto.
However, I find her work on Possession and Exorcism in Japanese Religions to be a fascinating glimpse into her extensive expertise in the spiritual practices of Japan.
Professor Richard King describes his research as an exploration of “the intersection between what we call philosophy and mysticism/spirituality and the ways in which European colonialism has influenced (and continues to influence) modern interpretations of ancient Indian traditions.”
His 1999 book, Orientalism and Religion : Post-Colonial Theory, India and “The Mystic East”, draws on contemporary postcolonial theory in order to challenge religious studies of the so-called “mystic East.” As scholars like Grace Jantzen note, the work is a significant critique of the “othering” of the East, adding to a divisive tradition that can be traced back to Edward Said’s Orientalism and beyond.
Though I won’t have the chance to take a class with any of these outstanding faculty, it’s been a real pleasure engaging with their research - the kind of scholarship that my peers in the School of History, Religions, and Philosophies might just find on their syllabi.
Discover the first chapter in our series , spotlighting faculty from the School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics.
She is currently an MA candidate in Cultural Studies at SOAS, where she researches the publishing industry through the framework of late-stage capitalism.
Exploring the relationships between Jaina mendicant lineages and their supporters.
MA History at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/my-teacher-reading-list-research-highlights-school-languages-cultures-and-linguistics:
Published 31 March 2025
My teacher is on the reading list is a blog series that highlights some of the work of SOAS academics—this time, Lilly spotlights scholars from the School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics.
Picture this.
I’m sitting in front of the SOAS course catalogue, trying to make an impossible decision.
As an MA student in the School of Languages, Cultures, and Linguistics , the options are outrageously interesting, anything from Modern Palestinian Literature to Queering Migrations and Diasporas .
I make a list of my top twenty, my top ten, and finally, after a long conversation with my cat, I narrow down my selections.
Part selection, part procrastination process, I end up scouring the internet for information about my professors.
Between archived Zoom lectures and the occasional deep dive into Twitter feeds, I dig up an impressive range of faculty research.
I’ll admit I may have saved over a hundred articles, chapters, and books to my ever-growing TBR list.
But can you blame me?
SOAS faculty are a rabbit hole of brilliance.
For my fellow nerds and snoops, here’s a curated glimpse into the dazzling research in the School of Languages, Cultures, and Linguistics.
Professor Harrison teaches my Cultural Studies course and has become an invaluable mentor as I prepare for PhD applications.
Her article in Feminist Studies , considering visions of womanhood in contemporary Thailand, is my favourite among her many publications.
But she also recently published a fantastic critique in The Guardian regarding the representation of Thailand in The White Lotus .
I must confess, with great chagrin, that my schedule keeps me from taking a course with Dr Lu on Chinese culture and language.
That said, I thoroughly enjoyed perusing her editorial work in the Oxford Handbook of Communist Visual Cultures .
The handbook is a striking exploration of how communism engages the visual, from architecture to computer games.
A SOAS alum, Dr Hadjivayanis is both a Swahili lecturer and a renowned translator.
After translating the Nobel Prize winning Tanzanian novelist Abdulrazak Gurnah’s Paradise , she wrote a fascinating book chapter about the process as well as the broader history of translation in East Africa.
As a part of my Cultural Studies module, Dr Hadjivayanis lectured on the history and present-day cultural identity of the Swahili coast, and translation was one of many subjects my peers and I enjoyed discussing with her!
One of my favourite aspects of SOAS’s curriculum is its focus on the complicated relationship between Western and postcolonial perspectives; Dr Anandi Rao’s investigation of the role Shakespeare plays in India is a perfect example of this crucial research.
As Dr Rao concludes, "Romeo and Juliet, or the idea of Romeo and Juliet, is so reified that its construction as a stable, authentic source text propels these [Indian] masala iterations."
These are only a few examples of the spectacular SOAS faculty: the thoughtful, inspiring mentors who make this institution more than academia, but also a community .
Their research has me procrastinating my own readings -  but honestly, who could resist the intricacies of Swahili translation or villain stardom in socialist China?
Discover the next chapter in our series , spotlighting faculty from the School of History, Religions and Philosophies.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/blogs/making-art-history-more-accessible-rose-aidin-mbes-inspiring-mission:
Published 9 April 2025
Alumna Rose Aidin MBE founded Art History Link-Up (AHLU), an educational charity dedicated to making art history more accessible to young people from all backgrounds.
She spoke to us about her time at SOAS and what has driven her in her career.
Did you know that fewer than 1% of state schools offer Art History A level?
This statistic inspired SOAS alumna Rose Aidin to found Art History Link-Up (AHLU), an educational charity dedicated to making art history more accessible to young people from all backgrounds.
As she so beautifully puts it, “I believe in the power of art history to transform lives.”
It all started a little over thirty years ago, when Aidin enrolled in an MA in History of Art at SOAS, seeking what her undergraduate studies had lacked—a focus on non-Western art traditions.
Under the mentorship of SOAS faculty, she dedicated herself to Japanese, Chinese, and Islamic art, studying just a stone’s throw from the British Museum.
She shouts out Professor Timon Screech’s Japanese Art History courses as a particular favourite.
I believe in the power of art history to transform lives.
"The extraordinarily high standard of teaching, use of the object as source, and the very real commitment to diversity [at SOAS]” all deeply inform her work today.
Aidin’s early career saw her primarily within the commercial art world, where she interviewed artists for publications including The Times , The Guardian , and The Telegraph .
But it was her time teaching Art History A level in the few state schools that offered it that inspired her critical mission: to create educational opportunities for students to engage with art history, using public museums and galleries as classrooms.
Today, Art History Link-Up (AHLU) offers free, accredited art history courses to state school students, taught in museums, galleries, and online.
On any given day, you’ll find Aidin directing AHLU’s strategy and programmes, devising courses, and overseeing fundraising efforts to ensure these educational opportunities continue to grow.
As a result of these efforts, AHLU not only nurtures and diversifies future talent but also ensures that museums remain critical and accessible to younger generations.
Of course, Aidin envisions a future where her charity is no longer necessary - where art history is a part of every student’s education.
Until then, she remains committed to expanding AHLU’s reach, ensuring that all GCSE-level students have access to accredited art history courses.
In recognition of her incredible work, Aidin was recently awarded an MBE for services to art history and young people in the New Year Honours for 2025.
For SOAS students - and anyone passionate about making a difference in education and the arts - Aidin advises us to “cultivate an acceptance of change, flexibility and being poised for opportunity, as it’s never obvious when it comes, but always there.”
Her remarkable career is a testament to the importance of art history in our curricula.
As AHLU states: “Through the study of art history, the close observation of works of art and the understanding of history and social context, questions about the making, meaning and impact of art and how these have changed over time are addressed.”
Header image credit: Zalfa Imani via Unsplash.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/chinese-perspectives-ai-global-context-towards-new-ethical-eco-system:
The project “The Chinese Discourse of AI in Global Context: Towards a New Ethical Eco-System” is centered on several closed-door workshops and events in the China Forum series.
This research is based on the active participation of academic voices from the humanities and social sciences, including AI engineers, scholars of early and modern Chinese culture, experts in digital media, communication, and AI in China, philosophers and ethicists; participants also include sci-fiction novelists and AI users.
In line with the China Forum, its aim at fostering dialogue among cultures and bridging Asian and Western civilizations, the China and AI series proposes to reflect on the Chinese discourse of AI within a more global framework, but also invites to listen to a ‘AI lesson’ from China that could bring new and nuanced perspectives on potential and roles of AI.
Our first close-door workshop series is divided into two segments: the first part “AI and humans face to face: analysis within a binary thinking” focuses on the deconstruction and exploration of AI and humans, also addressing their relationship and mutual influence.
A China Forum event on this topic took place on 10 April.
The second set of meetings, titled “Reflections on a new ethical eco-system: beyond a binary thinking”, shifts the attention to ethical concerns, and ponders on the formation of a new ethical eco-system; a second China Forum will report our conclusions in an open discussion with the large public.
The website of the Georgetown University’s Representative Office in Rome has published further information on our workshops and China Forum events.
The project is an on-going collaboration between Georgetown University’s Representative Office in Rome (Dr.
Debora Tonelli) and SOAS (Dr.
Stefania Travagnin); it counts the participation of 13 scholars from several disciplinary trainings (history of religion, Chinese studies, anthropology, sociology, ritual studies, media and material culture) and affiliated to institutions in North America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
Other practitioners like sci-fiction novelists are also active members of this research.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/inclusive-bodhisattva-path-taiwanese-buddhist-tzu-chi-foundation-and-their-global-trans:
The Taiwanese Buddhist Tzu Chi Foundation, established by the nun Cheng Yen in 1966, has proposed a new model of humanitarianism.
Besides becoming the first faith-based organization that is present in 133 countries, and operating long-term in/with multi-cultural and multi-faith environments in all continents, Tzu Chi is especially unique for their inclusive membership and community building overseas.
In fact, they have been able to attract hundreds of thousands of non-Buddhists and non-Asian volunteers and members, becoming a global trans-faith humanitarian foundation where differences of belief do not undermine but enhance charity missions; they have also invested in empowering the vulnerable, especially women.
Based on fieldwork in Tzu Chi missions in Africa, Middle East, and South America, this project unveils the reinvention of religion and Buddhism that are the foundation of the “Tzu Chi model” of humanitarian action, analyzes Tzu Chi tactics of women’s empowerment in non-Asian and non-Buddhist communities, and reflects on the potential of Tzu Chi trans-faith humanitarianism in informing charity work worldwide.
Besides standard academic outputs, central to this project is also the organization of a series of three roundtables titled “Trans-faith Humanitarianism for Global Sustainability.” Speakers and invited audience will include Tzu Chi members, leading members of UK inter-faith councils and religious charities, local leaders of religious denominations.
The scope of the roundtables is to initiate and nurture a collaborative and constructive dialogue among charity and religious actors for improving humanitarian practices and societal sustainability; and to offer the concluding remarks of such a dialogue in the form of briefing to be distributed to local and national policymakers that address diversity, intercultural mediation, and integration.
Dr.
Stefania Travagnin, Reader in Chinese Buddhism, is conducting this research thanks to a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship.
The BA Mid-Career Fellowships are designed both to support outstanding individual researchers with excellent research proposals, and to promote public understanding and engagement with humanities and social sciences.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/border-crossings-exploring-history-and-community-through-virtual-reality-75th-anniversary:
Border Crossings seeks to examine how public narratives and memories of the partition of 1947 have developed and changed over time.
Through a focus on the experiences of South Asia diaspora communities in the UK, the project explores how Virtual Reality (VR) technology and visual media can be used to facilitate new dialogues across different generations and communities.
We examine how diaspora experiences can open up new ways of looking at the partition and its legacies as well as the social categories through which we understand the past and future of the South Asian subcontinent beyond those of religion and nation.
We have worked with Project Dastaan following the UK tour of their digital exhibit ‘‘Child of Empire and Lost Migrations’’ from July-October 2022.
We collected survey data and qualitative reflections, views, and attitudes to understand changes and intergenerational shifts in the memorialisation of partition.
We developed innovative and participatory methods to facilitate cross-community conversations to engage with themes related to South Asian communities in the UK and the legacy of partition.
We are now building a website to share these findings as well as wider conversations about the impact of partition and the legacies of colonial rule for understandings of community and identity in the UK as well as South Asia.
Bordering processes, Gender and intersecting inequalities, Reproductive justice, Culture and the creative economy.
History of modern South Asia, particularly the transition to independence; gender, family and law in colonial and post-colonial India

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/rabbinic-civil-law-context-ancient-legal-history-legal-compendium-bavot-tractates-talmud:
Their legal regulations (halakhah) are compiled in the Talmud Yerushalmi, which was edited around 400 C.E.
By focusing on the so-called Bavot-tractates of the Talmud, which deal with various aspects of civil law – e.g., delicts, property law, contracts, labour law – we plan to systematically examine interfaces between rabbinic and other, non-Jewish forms of ancient jurisprudence, especially Roman and (as far as available) Hellenistic law.
The main goal is to integrate rabbinic law, which developed in the Middle East and is based on local legal traditions, into ancient legal history that is traditionally concerned with western legal traditions only.
We plan to create a pioneering Legal Compendium to the Bavot Tractates of the Talmud Yerushalmi, which will constitute an essential tool for all future legal researchers, whether scholars of rabbinic literature, ancient Judaism, or ancient legal history.
While the impact of Roman civil law on later European law is well known, ancient rabbinic texts provide a unique source for investigating the creation of an alternative body of law that both imitated and significantly differed from the Roman model.
Based on biblical law and developed in a Graeco-Roman cultural context, rabbinic civil law can serve as a precedent for the interaction between local indigenous and imperial legal traditions and practices.
Since rabbinic law continued to be studied and applied in Jewish communities throughout the Middle Ages and early Modernity, our study will contribute to the exploration of the legal cultures of political minorities in their ancestral homeland and the Diaspora.
Methodologically, the project follows a highly integrated interdisciplinary and collaborative approach, combining text- and literary-critical analysis with social, political, and legal history.
Judaism in Hellenistic and Roman times; rabbinic literature; social history of Jews in late antiquity; American Jewish history and literature, Jewish identity, gender studies

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/restitution-looted-cambodian-antiquities:
Restitution is one of the pressing issues of our times, impacting museums, collectors, dealers, diplomacy and communities worldwide.
Having been the victim of massive looting over some six decades of war, genocide and their long aftermath into the 21st century, Cambodia is today one of the most effective players in the complex international restitution arena.
By strengthening an existing relationship with the Cambodian Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts Restitution Team, building new relationships with international and Cambodian public and private sector actors supporting the work, and bringing three SOAS alumni emerging scholars on board, Professor Thompson aims to maximise the impact of this research.
The project involves the beginning and end of the restitution chain: identifying/provenancing looted objects, and promoting care and interactive interpretation of restituted objects in museums, temples and villages.
The project is supported by SOAS Impact and Knowledge Exchange with funding from Research England for promoting the economic development and welfare of developing countries on the OECD’s Development Assistance Committee list.
Southeast Asian arts, aesthetics, literatures and cultural histories, with a focus on Cambodia, from the Angkorian to the post-Angkorian to the contemporary; Theravadin Buddhist arts, literatures and ritual; cultural heritage; sexual difference; deconstruction; memory and textuality.
Dr Asaba received the award for her book, Tango in Japan: Cosmopolitanism beyond the West, which will be published in early 2025.
From 5 to 14 January 2024, the Circumambulating Objects: on Paradigms of Restitution of Southeast Asian Art (CO-OP) research cohort attended the first of three critical thinking labs in northeast Thailand.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/korean-art-collecting-activities-british-diplomats-businessmen-and-missionaries-1880-1930:
This 12-month provenance research project was funded by the Overseas Korean Cultural Heritage Foundation  (a South Korean government-funded institute overseen by Cultural Administration Heritage and the Ministry of Culture).
The project was designed to further the understanding of early collecting and consumption of Korean cultural objects in the UK by investigating objects that entered British museum collections between the 1880s and 1930s.
The research was focused on eleven influential diplomats, businessmen and missionaries who had intimate connections to and experience in Korea and who donated, sold and/or bequeathed more than four-hundred objects to British institutions.
The project entailed on-site research of early Korean collections spread across a total of nine UK institutions.
The project brought to light the types of objects that were acquired by individuals whose collecting practices tended to be driven by other factors than connoisseurly interests.
By incorporating a wide range of objects and institutions that fall within and outside the domain of art, the project also provided important insight into how Korea was understood by diplomats, businessmen and missionaries and it offered fresh understandings of how institutional approaches to the objects furthered contemporary perceptions of Korea.
As part of the project, a workshop was hosted in November 2023 where curators, librarians, and researchers from the Bodleian Library, Cambridge University Library, British Library, British Museum, National Museums Scotland, Kew, Royal Botanic Gardens, Brighton University, and SOAS, University of London were invited to talk about the formation and management of their Korean collections.
© The Trustees of the British Museum.
Shared under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0) licence.
Offered by SOAS and IAU, this unique programme provides theoretical and practical training in Museum Studies, including hands-on experience with objects.
A lintel returned in 2021 on display at the Skok Kok Thom Museum, Thailand.
This is one of two lintels that formed the basis of a restitution claim by the Thai government from Asian Art Museum San Francisco which was discussed at the workshop.
Courtesy of Stephen Murphy.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/youth-crisis-effects-post-independence-violent-conflict-and-displacement-murle-socio:
Diana’s British Academy-funded research project (2020-2025) examines visual, musical and performative culture as the lens through which to better understand changes in Murle social institutions and in young people's positions in society in Greater Pibor in eastern South Sudan, where she has been working since 2012.
Permanent body scarifications of mobile phones, pens, Kalashnikov rifles and army ranks, songs about network towers, and dance movements replicating roaring lions.
These may not be immediately associated to historical memories, nor to how people negotiate gender and generational relations, assert identities, or express political subversion and contestation, nor to social and economic issues.
Nor as pathways to social and political personhood.
But these repertoires of communication are unique lenses to understand people and society – they are aesthetic, but also provide fascinating nonaesthetic information.
The research project considers body scarifications, songs and dance performances as the lenses to understand how Murle society in Greater Pibor, in eastern South Sudan has been transforming in light of decades of violent conflict and socio-political neglect and exclusion of that part of the country.
In particular, the research considers how agro-pastoralist youth have been making sense of long-term violent conflict in their home of Pibor, one of South Sudan’s most marginalised peripheries, by paying attention to their permanent body inscriptions, to their songs and to their dance performances.
Drawing on long-term ethnographic and archival research, the research also contests the ‘youth in crisis’ paradigm and examines how young people are navigating the pressures of modern (and violent) political forces, contributing to scholarship on the interplay of youth, politics and conflict.
One of the project’s outputs has been a website showcasing and promoting Murle cultural heritage , intended as an accessible space for learning about Murle tangible and intangible cultural heritage.
Through the angle of the Murle age-sets, it showcases annotated photographs, audio and video recordings of Murle songs, dance, oral histories and scarification practices, as well as other socio-cultural dimensions, discussing how these have been changing, adapting and reflect connections to a global world.
Header image: Murle women from Bothonya age-set dancing in Manyabol, Pibor South Sudan (photograph by Diana Felix da Costa)
South Sudan and East Africa; Murle cultural heritage; youth visual, musical and performative culture; body art, scarification and identity; ethnic identity politics; conflict, politics of humanitarian aid and development.
A symposium to celebrate the collaboration between Keio University, Tokyo and SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/leverhulme-research-leadership-award-mapping-sumatras-manuscript-cultures:
The project’s case studies are the Palembang royal library, looted by the British in 1812 and by the Dutch in 1821; the libraries of religious schools in the Minangkabau highlands; and personal libraries from Aceh.
The latter case studies remain in situ and are digitized by the Endangered Archives Programme.
As well as reconstituting the Palembang royal library as a digital resource, the project also aims to produce editions of texts from the manuscript tradition that have been unread for centuries, and to develop a holistic and contextualised understanding of the textual culture of Islamic South East Asia in the 18th and 19th centuries.
Dr Mulaika Hijjas is a reader in South East Asian Studies at the School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics.
MA South Asian Area Studies at SOAS University of London

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/participatory-biocultural-documentation-sustainable-resource-stewardship-and-climate:
The IUCN represents the world’s largest environmental network, bringing together governments, NGOs, scientists, businesses, and local communities to reduce vulnerability to climate change through enhanced biodiversity conservation.
In August 2023, the IUCN NL commissioned Musicians Without Borders (MWB) to develop a pilot project in North Kivu, using locally apposite cultural mechanisms to bring citizens – their values and identities - into climate adaptation decision making.
As a member of the MWB research advisory committee, I was invited to develop a ToT methodology on participatory biocultural data collection, which was piloted in North Kivu through partnership with local NGOs, Global Vision for Africa (GVA) and Association des Scouts du Nord-Kivu (ASNK).
While participatory research may not be new, ecologists and climate scientists often struggle with how to work with people and local knowledge practices.
Yet, sustainable resource stewardship and climate adaptation are inextricably linked to local cultural values and capacities, which are often embedded in cultural practices such as songs and seasonal rituals.
Drawing on lessons learned from the pilot in North Kivu, we will develop a participatory biocultural documentation user manual that places local ways of knowing at the forefront of the data-gathering process, providing an iterative approach that makes evident corresponding values of local ontologies and intangible knowledge practices with techno-scientific processes and practices.
Music of southern Africa and the African Horn (Sudan); advocacy ethnomusicology; sound/music, memory and place; forced migration, cultural mapping and borderland identities; human rights and development
In the next Indian Art Circle lecture, Yashaswini Chandra (University of Edinburgh) interrogates the cultural hybridity of colonial Lucknow through two spaces associated with Boola Begum (Boulone or Lise), the bibi or Indian companion of French colonial officer Claude Martin.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/mapping-religious-diversity-modern-sichuan-spatial-and-social-study-communities-and:
Within China, the province of Sichuan is unique for the high concentration of ethnic and religious diversity, and the intertwined net of heterogeneous communities that form the local religious landscape.
This uniqueness makes Sichuan a crucial case study of religious and ethnic diversity.
In this project, some studies highlight dynamics of religious communities in urban areas, others look at practices in rural settings.
Our research also shows attention to the role of women in religious communities; and it develops a discussion of religious diversity in dialogue with the discourse of ethnicity, addressing tension as well as inclusion practices between Han and Tibetans, relations between the Hui and the Han in Chengdu, and between the Hui and the Yi in Xichang.
Our research has two main objectives:
The project, funded by the Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, is directed by Stefania Travagnin (SOAS, University of London) with Elena Valussi (Loyola University Chicago).
It counts the participation of 13 scholars from several disciplinary trainings (history of religion, Chinese studies, anthropology, sociology, ritual studies, media and material culture), and affiliated to institutions in North America, Europe, China, and Taiwan.
Lars Laaman, from SOAS, is also participating in the project.
The team collaborates with local scholars in Sichuan and relied on a large network of religious communities in Sichuan and Chongqing.
Popular religions in early modern China (16th-20th cc); Christianity in china (18th-20th cc); Opium and other narcotics (18th-20th cc); Manchu history (16th-20th cc)

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/circumambulating-objects-paradigms-restitution-southeast-asian-art:
CO-OP is a research project funded by the Getty Foundation Connecting Art Histories program.
Prof Ashley Thompson and Dr Stephen Murphy in the SOAS School of Arts lead a 15-strong cohort of scholars, artists, and museum professionals in examining local Southeast Asian epistemologies underpinning restitution.
The project primarily comprises of three annual eventsin Southeast Asia— in Thailand, Indonesia, and Cambodia—where the cohort engages in site visits and discussions around an annual theme.
In addition to these cohort activities, the project has supported ongoing student research at SOAS via an internship programme.
Four MA students in History of Art/Archaeology were able to continue research around restitution fostered within their MA programme.
Their work, on the Khmer collections of the British Museum and digital repatriation of Javanese manuscripts, will be published on the CO-OP website in early spring.
Header photo: Udomluck Hoontrakul (PhD, SOAS, Lecturer, Thammasat University) leads deliberations on dinner.
(Photo by Emma Efkeman)
The Getty Foundation has awarded Professor Ashley Thompson and Dr Stephen Murphy a grant of $315,000 (approximately £280,000) for the project, ‘Circumambulating Objects: Paradigms of Restitution of Southeast Asian Art.’
Stephen A.
Murphy specialises in the art and archaeology of Buddhism and Hinduism in first millennium CE Southeast Asia with a focus on Thailand and Laos.
Dr Heidi Tan was a founding member of the curatorial team at the Asian Civilisations Museum, one of Singapore’s national museums that was launched in 1997.
Offered by SOAS and Effat University, this unique programme provides theoretical and practical training in Museum Studies, including hands-on experience with objects.

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/research/british-academy-writing-workshop-amplifying-womens-voices-hausa-cultural-studies:
Because women in northern Nigeria and other Hausa-speaking regions face academic and publishing barriers, most high profile cultural studies in northern Nigeria have been done by men and non-Africans.
The hybrid workshop attached to the Hausa International Book and Arts Festival seeks to amplify the voices of West African female scholars by providing mentorship in the field of Hausa studies and building access to expert advice and training on how to publish.
The participants interacted with journal editors and established academics in the field of Hausa Studies  to learn about writing articles for publication, identifying appropriate journals, adapting thesis chapters into journal articles, and writing grant applications.
Participants were paired with mentors for peer review and one-on-one feedback.
Following the physical workshop, participants engaged in mentorship with established academics to revise their articles and ready them for submission to journals.
The mentorship is currently ongoing.
African Studies

New sentences found on https://soas.ac.uk/about/event/celebration-life-david-hughes:
An afternoon of music-making to celebrate the life of David Hughes (1945–2025), ethnomusicologist, performer, scholar of Japanese culture, and valued member of the Department of Music at SOAS.
We will be holding a relaxed afternoon of music at the SOAS Gallery (Thornhaugh St.
WC1H OXG) on Sunday 14 September, 2-5pm.
The event will include a reception, short films and performances by friends, colleagues, and former students.
Image: David Hughes in 1974
In this workshop, Vignesh Ishwar focuses on the relationship between space and Karnatik music.
To mark the opening of his solo exhibition Moonlight Tales at London’s Africa Centre, SOAS School of Arts invites you to a public talk by artist, writer and curator Chuu Krydz Ikwuemedi.