# Site: https://www.solent.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 499
# --------

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk:
You may also be interested in:
You might also be interested in:
CLEARING 2025 IS STILL OPEN
Apply today and start this September with Clearing
Experience life as a student at one of our on-campus or virtual undergraduate, postgraduate or maritime open days.
Taste the Sauce of Success at Solent!
With a wide range of exciting courses and a team ready to help you thrive, there’s never been a better time to apply.
Found your perfect course?
Contact us today and let’s make it happen.
We're here to offer advice and information to help navigate your way through Clearing.
Thinking of continuing your studies this September?
Explore our range of postgraduate courses at Solent.
Solent & Saints are set to continue their productive partnership for another three years
Clearing 2025 is open at Southampton Solent University.
Andy Chan has been appointed Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor - Research and Knowledge Exchange at Southampton Solent University.
Southampton Solent University unveils new Civic Charter, reinforcing its commitment to the city and wider region
Mon 1 September
On-campus
Mon 15 September
Virtual
Wed 17 September
Wed 24 September
Solent University is located in the heart of Southampton city centre and within walking distance of Southampton Central train station.
Southampton is well connected with the rest of the UK, whether you plan to get here by car, train, plane, or ferry.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses:
Showing 190 courses that fit your criteria
BSc (Hons)
Also available as:
BA (Hons)
MA
Discover the sauce of success with our tasty range of courses - the perfect recipe for a great career.
Apply through Clearing today!
PGCert
MSc
This means the course meets the requirements of the accrediting professional body.
It could also mean exemptions from modules when studying for the professional qualification after graduating.
During this course, students are expected to complete a work experience placement – normally a module in year 2 or 3 – where they can gain vital practical skills required by employers.
Add another course to compare

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects:
If you know broadly which subject you are looking to study but can’t decide on a specific course, our subject pages can help you to narrow down your options.
Find your perfect course
Experience life as a student at Solent.
With course talks, campus tours, videos and more, you’ll find everything you need to know about studying at Solent University at one of our open days.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/prospectuses-and-publications:
Download or order a printed version of our latest publication.
Download a PDF version of our latest publication.
View a PDF version of one of our in-depth course brochures.
Information about careers at sea in the Merchant Navy.
A guide for parents, carers and supporters of students studying at Solent.
Ready for the future
View our latest financial statement

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/clearing:
Clearing is now open , apply below:
It's a unique set of ingredients you just won't find at other universities:
Ready for Clearing?
Explore our degrees and give us a call or apply online.
Our city-centre campus puts you in the heart of the south coast's biggest city.
Our courses are practical and career-driven, informed by our industry connections and focused on getting you the career you want.
Our student community is inclusive, collaborative, diverse and friendly.
Whatever you're into, there's a place for you here.
We offer tons of real-world experiences, placement opportunities and access to the latest professional equipment and facilities.
Our support teams are always here for you - no matter the problem or challenge you're facing, we'll help you sort it.
Take a look through our huge range of specialist, career-focussed courses.
Browse the highlights, or dive deep if you know what you want to study.
If you didn't get the grades you need or don't quite feel ready to jump straight into degree-level study, a foundation year could be the perfect choice for you.
The benefits of a foundation degree are:
Lower entry requirements.
Academic support to help you prepare for uni-level study.
A broad introduction to your industry before you start your specialist degree.
BA (Hons) Film and Television
LLB (Hons) Law
Southampton is a city with something for everyone.
Beautiful city centre parks, an electric night-time economy and a thriving arts and music scene all meet to offer residents something truly unique.
We have four student residences with a range of rooms to suit all budgets and requirements - but rooms are allocated on a first-come, first-served basis, so choices may be limited as spaces fill up.
Talk to us about your Clearing options.
Come to an open day
Saturday 27 September

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply:
If you're applying to Solent University and need some more information on what to do next, you'll find it right here.
Ready to apply to Solent?
Part-way through your application and unsure what to do next?
Solent University is here to help with your application questions!
If you can't find the answers here, you can contact our team of experts who will help guide you through the process.
Before you start your application to Solent, you'll need to choose your course.
We have over 100 undergraduate, postgraduate and apprenticeship courses for you to choose from.
You can find your course by using our search, or you can:
If you've found a course you love, you can find application information about it below.
For parents and guardians, please be sure to download our guide.
Ready to apply for an undergraduate degree?
We'll help you through the process from choosing a course to writing your personal statement.
Find out how to start your application at Solent.
Refine your knowledge and kick-start your career with a postgraduate qualification.
Want to improve your skills and apply for a higher and degree apprenticeship?
Find out how our apprenticeships can help you upskill.
Discover what life at Solent University is really like at one of our open events.
Want to find out more about applying for a cadetship in the Merchant Navy?
Find out more on our Warsash Maritime School website.
Looking to apply for a course at Solent University from overseas?
Find information about Visas, entry requirements and fees and funding.
Need information about how to pay for your course at Solent?
We've got all the information you need about fees, funding and scholarships
Unsure about the difference between undergraduate and postgraduate study?
Don't worry we've got all the information you need to help you make the right choice when applying to university.
How many UCAS points you have will determine which courses you are able to apply for.
More UCAS points means more choices.
You can use our tariff chart to find out how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth, or contact the admissions team to find out how to get the most out of the points you have available.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international:
Find out more about applying to Solent University from overseas
We are proud to have welcomed students of over 100 different nationalities into our student community.
In fact, it wouldn’t be the same here without them.
Here, you will find all the information you need about applying to Solent University as an overseas student.
We’ll be with you every step of the way to help you on your journey.
Find your perfect course - search for undergraduate or postgraduate courses with start dates in January, May and September!
Explore our university from the comfort of your own home and discover what it's like to be at Solent.
Here, we've provided information such as entry requirements, visas and available scholarships specific to your country.
Our campus is in the heart of the city centre, which means you're within walking distance of a range of bars, pubs, nightclubs, restaurants, shops, cinemas, museums, and more!
Not only are there lots of things to do on your doorstep, but we're also just a short journey away from London, Bournemouth, Winchester, and the New Forest, and a short ferry ride from the Isle of Wight.
If you love live music, you're in for a treat.
Southampton is home to fantastic live music venues, including the O2 Guildhall, which is a regular stop for nationwide tours, and independent venues that showcase up-and-coming bands.
We offer programmes designed to help you improve your academic and English language skills in preparation for and during your studies.
Information about the Student visa - when and how to apply, fees, Confirmation of Acceptance to Study (CAS), dependants, and much more.
Find out more about funding available for international students studying in the UK.
We welcome students from all backgrounds and from all over the world.
No matter what course you wish to enrol on, or what your needs are, we can help you to become part of the Solent success story.
East Asia
Central Asia
South Asia
South East Asia
A guide to help give you an idea of what will need to be considered as part of your move, helping you settle in as quickly as possible.
We've put together some useful information about accommodation options in Southampton for our international students.
Here, you'll find all the information you need about working in the UK both during and after your studies.
There are a number of specialist support services available for all students.
Whatever your need, help is always on hand in our Student Hub.
Led by students, for students, the Students' Union provides independent representation, academic support, societies, and events.
For students with at least one year of university study in their home country looking to broaden their experience by studying abroad.
Our open days are packed full of activities, tours and talks - all to help you discover what life as a student at Solent University is like.
You can also claim up to £50 in Amazon vouchers.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/postgraduate-at-solent:
Embark on a postgraduate journey at Solent University and unlock a world of opportunities.
Our specialised courses are designed in collaboration with industry experts, ensuring you gain practical skills that directly apply to real-world scenarios.
Whether you’re transitioning from your undergraduate studies or returning as a mature student, our dedicated personal tutors and the Student Hub are here to provide academic and pastoral support.
From refining your academic writing to supporting your career path, we’ve got you covered.
With start dates in September, January and May, begin your postgraduate experience with us today.
We have a wide range of postgraduate courses to suit your career prospects.
You can gain new skills, new opportunities and new experiences on a postgraduate degree at Solent University.
Take your career to the next level with a postgraduate degree at Solent University.
Whether you're looking to specialise in your field, switch careers or stand out in a competitive job market, we offer a wide range of professionally accredited MA, MSc, MBA, and LLM programmes designed with your future in mind.
With flexible start dates in January, May and September, it’s easy to find a course that fits around your life.
Developed in partnership with industry experts and delivered by experienced academics, our courses are practical, forward-thinking and focused on real-world success.
You'll benefit from tailored support throughout your studies, including a personal tutor, access to innovative online learning tools, and a free gym membership in your first semester – because your wellbeing matters as much as your learning.
Solent alumni are eligible for a 20% reduction of tuition fees if returning to study a postgraduate course.
We went down to our graduation ceremony to speak to some of our newly graduated cohorts from our postgraduate courses.
See for yourself why they chose to study at Southampton Solent University on one of our postgraduate courses.
Want to know more about postgraduate study at Solent?
Fill out our form to register your interest and we'll be in touch.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
At Solent we're adapting our delivery method and courses to meet the needs of employers.
Alongside the higher and degree apprenticeships that run at our East Park Terrace campus, in a variety of delivery models, we have also launched a fully online range of apprenticeships that are totally flexible and work around your business needs and demands.
Our online courses have been designed and developed to be as flexible as they possibly can be.
You will typically have one workshop each month, with the rest of the students studying the same programme as you, with additional work required via our online learning system.
You'll also have one-to-one sessions with your tutor who will be able to guide and support you through your programme, adapting the style and workload to meet your needs and ensure you'll be successful in your programme.
On successful achievement of your apprenticeship standard, you will be invited to the next available graduation ceremony to celebrate along with all other Solent students who completed their studies that year.
We also offer the traditional higher and degree apprenticeships with delivery taking place on campus.
Most of these courses are run with students being released from their day job to attend campus one day a week, with additional work required to complete assignments, research, projects, and tasks related to the apprenticeship.
The time on campus depends on the programme but commitment can be discussed at application and also during your interview with the academic course lead for each programme.
Apprenticeships offer a unique blend of work experience and academic study.
Candidates on an apprenticeship will work a paid job while simultaneously working towards a relevant qualification in their chosen field.
Apprentices are employees with a contract of employment which offers the same benefits and protections as any other employee.
Apprentices will typically work for four days of the week, using the remaining day to attend classes and study.
Those undertaking an apprenticeship will complete a variety of activities.
These could include professional discussions, presentations, essays, exams and practical assessments, delivered through a combination of classroom sessions and practical workshops, depending on the programme.
There are many options available to those who'd like to undertake an apprenticeship.
Candidates will most likely fall into one of three categories:
Becoming an apprentice is a great way to start in a new career while undertaking study that helps you be more impactful in your role.
If this is you, you should take a look at GOV.UK's find an apprenticeship service .
This service advertises apprenticeship opportunities from across the country and includes vacancies in all areas, from hairdressing to engineering and everything in between.
There are several effective ways to secure an apprenticeship.
Gaining work experience is a great starting point, as it helps build relevant skills and shows initiative.
Applying directly to companies is another proactive approach, allowing you to express your interest and stand out from other candidates.
Volunteering with the company you'd like to work for can also be beneficial, as it demonstrates commitment and gives you the opportunity to make a positive impression.
Additionally, it's important to regularly keep an eye out for apprenticeship vacancies, so you don't miss any opportunities when they arise.
If you're already working, apprenticeships can help you further your career.
Work with your employer to choose an apprenticeship standard relating to your role, then find a training provider to support your learning.
The terms and conditions of your employment remain unchanged by taking up an apprenticeship.
However, your employer will be required to allow you time away from the workplace to complete your qualification.
Aaron Vidal, Embedded Electronic Systems Design and Development Engineer (Degree) Apprenticeship Aaron's apprenticeship has given him fantastic exposure to various aspects of engineering, getting hands-on with real-world projects.
Read more
Ryan Gaudion, Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (Integrated Degree) Apprenticeship Ryan is on his second apprenticeship, developing his knowledge and skills to progress his career as a software developer.
Ellie Peplinski, Registered Nurse Degree (NMC 2018) Apprenticeship Ellie gets support from her work to study, so she can pursue her dream of becoming a mental health nurse through an apprenticeship.
Peter Abbs-Fortnum, Nursing Associate (NMC 2018) Apprenticeship Peter discusses how the apprenticeship gave him financial stability as a homeowner, while training to become a nurse.
Our higher and degree apprenticeship programmes are the ideal way for employees to advance their careers.
Apprentices work throughout their studies and graduate debt-free with a nationally recognised university qualification.
They are great for employers too, helping to attract motivated staff and train them in a way that maximises the impact they can make.
An apprenticeship levy payer is classed as any UK employer with a PAYE bill in excess of £3m.
A 0.5% deduction will be taken from PAYE over this £3m marker directly through the HMRC.
This 0.5% becomes the employers levy fund, which they can use to upskill their existing staff with apprenticeship qualifications or introduce new apprentices to their organisation.
Levy-payers can also pay for the apprenticeship thought the Digital Apprenticeship Service account.
Small businesses (<50 employees) will receive 100% of the funding where the apprentice is 16-18 years old or is between 19-24 and has a local authority education, health and care plan (EHC plan).
Non-levy paying businesses and businesses that need to supplement their digital levy account will need to co-invest 5% of the cost of the training.
The government will pay the remaining 95%.
The benefits of employing apprentices are in the satisfaction of seeing them progress, and the real value they add to their team in the form of new talent, ideas and enthusiasm.
Our clients are very interested in our Apprenticeship Programme and the importance we give to the apprentices’ experience at Roke
If you have a vacancy for an apprentice, you can advertise the position on the South Coast Institute of Technology website if it's in the digital, engineering, or maritime subject area.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/foundation-years:
If you don’t have the academic qualifications (A-levels, BTECs) or the grades you need for your chosen bachelor’s degree, our foundation years are designed for you.
On a foundation year, you’ll spend a year building up essential study skills and a strong foundation of knowledge, before moving straight onto one of our undergraduate degrees the following year.
You’ll get the same academic support – normally from the academics who teach on the full degree – and use of the same facilities, as well as access to the same funding and accommodation options as students on other degrees.
A foundation year is a great opportunity if:
You apply for the degree you’re interested in through UCAS, just like any other course.
Then, simply select a ‘foundation year’ variant; this will show the course length as four or five years, depending on whether you also want to do an industry placement year.
If you successfully complete your foundation year, you’ll progress directly onto the first year of your bachelor’s degree.
Most of our degrees can be accessed through a foundation year.
And don’t worry – if you discover a new skill or subject you love during your foundation year, you’ll be able to switch to another linked degree.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/sport-at-solent/sport-education-partnership/coach-education-courses:
Solent University has been a significant provider of sport/health related CPD and coach education for over a decade.
Our courses are accredited and delivered by industry professionals, and through this work with National Governing Bodies and local providers, we have been able to furnish the local community with a wide range of qualified personnel to enhance the sport and wellbeing provision.
Whether you are on a coaching degree, looking towards a career in sport development, as a PE teacher or planning to choose a different path, CPD courses can play a key factor in your personal development, providing you with certified qualifications and sport development knowledge.
They will also help you develop transferable professional skills that are highly sort after by recruiters.
Please explore the list of qualifications below and send any enquiries to coach.education@solent.ac.uk , alternatively, you can book directly when you have clicked on your chosen course.
“Inspiring coaches not only help us to learn new skills and be active, but they also have a transformative and lasting impact on community life”.
UK Coaching

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/cpd-professional/pre-sessional-english-language:
Our Pre-Sessional English programme is designed to help students from around the world improve their academic and English language skills in preparation for undergraduate and postgraduate studies at Solent University.
This is an intensive course where you will attend live teaching sessions with your class in addition to smaller group workshops and individual tutorials with your tutors.
There are three main aims of the Solent Pre-Sessional English programme:
During this intensive programme, you will develop the skills you need to be successful on your future undergraduate or postgraduate degree course at Solent.
While you will certainly work on the accuracy of your use of English language, one of the other aspects of the course is to develop your academic skills so you are ready for the challenges of studying in a UK university environment.
In addition to the development of academic skills, you will also explore some topical and interesting aspects of life in the United Kingdom.
There are two entry points to the Pre-Sessional English programme, depending on your English language level and the language entry requirements for your degree course at Solent.
The course duration is either 7 weeks or 12 weeks.
A high level of student participation is expected and you will find most sessions to be very interactive.
You will be encouraged to develop your analytical and critical thinking skills, and in particular your independent learning skills, while also reflecting on your own development as a language learner.
12-week programme: 9 June 2025
7-week programme: 14 July 2025
This course not only helps students improve their language and academic skills but also develops skills which can be applied in the workplace, such as analytical skills and teamwork.
Together with the international students who join us from different countries and cultures across the world, we create a lively and friendly atmosphere.
Academic Reading Sessions will include the development of effective reading techniques such as skimming, scanning and extensive reading, strategies for dealing with unknown language, and predicting content.
Students will also improve their research skills by evaluating sources and learning how to use these effectively in their writing.
Academic Writing These sessions will include: planning and structuring essays; organising and writing paragraphs; paraphrasing and summarising; referencing and using sources in your writing.
Grammatical structures, and academic vocabulary, which are common in academic writing will be reviewed in depth to support your writing.
Academic Listening These sessions will involve listening to a variety of text formats (including podcasts, lectures and TED talks) and applying listening skills such as prediction, listening for overall meaning, listening for specific information, note-taking and summarising.
Academic Speaking These sessions will involve the preparation of and participation in a variety of oral communication tasks including seminar discussions, debates and presentations.
This module also aims to enhance your accuracy and fluency in spoken English.
Extended Essay This essay is designed to bring context to the other elements of the programme and to support and supplement your language and academic skills in conjunction with the reading, writing, speaking and listening components.
You will work on a researched essay which will have an academic focus and be related to your future field of study.
This component of the programme will help develop the research skills needed to successfully plan, research, draft and write an Extended Essay and further develop skills required for academic study.
You will be able to develop your essay through individual tutorials and group work.
Personal Tutorial In these 1-to-1 sessions you will have the opportunity to meet with your tutor individually to discuss your progress and ask any questions about your own development as a learner.
On successful completion of the Pre-Sessional English programme, you will be able to progress to your chosen undergraduate or postgraduate degree course, provided that you have demonstrated the required language level.
Solent’s curriculum framework builds on our unique, creative and applied approach to teaching.
The transformation of students’ lives is at the heart of our mission as a university, and our curriculum – informed by the latest theory – reflects this shared educational vision.
The fees for the 2024/25 academic year are:
12 week course: £4,600 7 week course: £2,890
For further information, please visit our tuition fees page .
Solent University offers a range of bursaries and scholarships that provide financial assistance or waive fees for tuition or accommodation.
Each bursary or scholarship has specific eligibility criteria.
Check out our bursaries and scholarships pages to find out more.
Cost of living support
At Solent, we understand that the cost of living crisis may be of some concern.
To help, we've put together some detailed information to show what support is available and how to make your money go further.
The requirements for your chosen target course.
12-week programme: No more than 1 band below the IELTS score required for your degree course.
7-week programme: No more than 0.5 band below the IELTS score required for your degree course.
For further information about the UK, EU and international qualifications, please contact admissions .
Spend one or two semesters in Southampton, on the UK’s south coast, to further your education and immerse yourself in British culture.
Enjoy an academically diverse and enriching experience while earning credit towards your degree.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/higher-technical-qualifications-htqs:
HTQs provide vocational training for students in higher education.
We have a range of Higher National Certificate (HNC) and Foundation Degrees in Science (FdSc) courses and will be running our HTQs from September 2024.
HTQs have been developed by the Department of Education to recognise these qualifications in plugging the skills gaps and boost access to more high-quality training alternatives in higher education.
Solent University has been successful in receiving funding from the government’s Higher Technical Education Provider Growth Fund, to develop these exciting new qualifications.
They have been created to support people to study more flexibly at different points throughout their lives – helping them to secure high-skilled, high-paid jobs.
Unlike apprenticeships, those studying a HTQ will not need to be sponsored by an employer.
They will provide technical skills training alongside an academic qualification such as a HNC or FdSc.
HTQs are for those who want vocational training as part of their career path.
Students can progress on from their Technical Qualifications to gain a deeper knowledge of the subject area at a higher level.
They are also for mature learners who want to upskill or retrain in these subject areas to enhance their career.
We welcome mature learners who have been out of education for a while and offer support to their learning and academic skills.
How can I find out more?
You can register your details on our register your interest form and we’ll send you further information about the courses once we receive it.
Take a look at our industry-standard facilities - some of which you could be using on your course.
Interested in studying an HTQ at Solent?
Let us know and we'll be in touch!
All our courses are designed with employability in mind, which makes industry-based learning a priority.
We offer higher technical qualifications in:
Digital
Construction
Health and science

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation:
You need the essentials in your accommodation, and we're committed to providing you with value for money in Solent student residences.
Student accommodation is more than just a roof over your head - where you live can have a real impact on settling into university life.
Solent's student residences offer a variety of options and cater for different needs to help you feel comfortable, safe, and happy with where you live.
Terms and conditions for living in Solent student accommodation can be found here .
If you're interested in renting privately, there are several options to consider.
Remember, private accommodation is completely independent from the University, so each establishment is different and will have different terms and conditions.
Our SASSH scheme will help you navigate your way around private housing.
Find out more
Our ResLife team aims to bring residents together during their time at Solent, building a network of support, friendship, and community across the halls.
Throughout the year, we run events for you to get involved with.
Here are just some of the events we've run previously.
All four of Solent's student residences are in Southampton city centre, close to shops, amenities and entertainment, and none are more than a 20-minute walk from the main campus.
St Mary's Place, Off Kingsway, Southampton, SO14 1XA
Accommodation is available in David Moxon for first-year undergraduates.
Marsh Lane, Southampton, SO14 3NJ
Deanery's en-suite study-bedrooms are separated into flats for first-, second- and third-year undergraduate students; postgraduates; maritime officer cadets; and exchange students.
Kimber is the closest residence to the main campus.
En-suite accommodation is available for first year undergraduates.
Marsh Lane, Southampton, SO14 1ZA
Chantry has 208 single study-bedrooms and a large common room.
The majority of rooms are non-en-suite with a limited number of en-suite.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/life-in-southampton/on-campus-at-solent:
Situated right in the centre of the busy city of Southampton, the Solent University campus is home to students and staff from many different backgrounds and nationalities.
Of course, being in the city centre means that many amenities are just a few minutes' walk from the lecture room, but as well as exploring Southampton, take some time to discover what's available to you right here on campus.
Here at Solent University, we want our students to enjoy their time while they're studying and feel a part of the Solent student community.
If you need it, you'll be able to find lots of advice on everything from academic and personal matters, to study skills and careers guidance.
The Student Hub is where you can go if you need to talk to someone and get expert advice on academic or personal matters.
The friendly team can offer counselling, funding advice, chaplaincy, and also answer queries about your timetable, assessments or extenuating circumstances.
You'll find the Student Hub in The Spark (TS114).
Solent Students' Union is run by students for students.
As well as organising things like social events and volunteering opportunities, the Students' Union is on hand to offer independent advice and support while you're at university.
Need to grab a quick bite to eat between lectures?
Or maybe you need a full-on breakfast to get you going for the day.
Either way, there's a great range of food outlets which cater for all tastes and requirements - whether it's a speciality coffee, pizza, salad, or a snack.
Solent also operates a cashless catering system called EVERYDAY.
Just download the app from your smart phone's app store to pre-order your food and drinks to pay in advance and save time!
You can even earn loyalty points, access discounts, and get exclusive meal deals.
And if you wish to speak to a member of the team about any specific dietary requirements before you arrive at Solent, email eat.solent.uni.uk@sodexo.com and they'll be happy to help.
This is the main food area and offers a great variety of dishes all prepared on site by our team of chefs.
Choose from the saver menu and our range of stands:
Guaranteed to satisfy any hunger pangs!
Adjacent to The Spark, East Park Deli is home to Starbucks Coffee, and Deli 2 Go on campus.
But you can also enjoy the many hot and cold food choices, such as paninis, sausage rolls, jacket potatoes, Made to order filled rolls and salads , sandwiches, soup, and cakes and confectionery.
All can be eaten in or taken away.
Just as you would expect from any Costa Coffee, you can grab a hot drink and a delicious pastry to have while you're on the go.
Our on-campus convenience store and newsagent, C-Store, has a great range of newspapers, confectionery, snacks, groceries, coffee, stationery and greetings cards.
Keep an eye out for offers too!
You'll find plenty of study areas around campus, from the library, to comfortable spaces and sofas for a more relaxed study environment.
Solent Library has a huge range of books, journals and other materials in both print and electronic format to help you with your studies.
With over 800 study places, including group and individual study rooms and silent study areas; as well as over 150 PCs and Macs, 100 laptops, and even a kitchen, the library is a thriving academic hub with staff available to help enhance your use of our resources and learning spaces.
Here at Solent, we have some of the best sport facilities around.
If you want to keep fit, why not take out a membership at the Solent Sports Complex, our £28 million sport, health and fitness facility.
If you want to take part in competitive sport, or simply join a team for some recreational sport, we have a number of teams across many different sports at all levels and abilities.
Test Park is our purpose-built outdoor sports ground that’s home to Team Solent’s football, rugby and American football teams.
Test Park has a full-size 3G multi-purpose all-weather pitch, floodlit stadium, and smaller grass pitches and rugby pitches.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/student-support:
All students at Solent University have access to a range of specialist support services.
Whether you're having financial difficulty, need help with academic skills or want advice on setting up your own business - you'll find help is always on hand.
You'll find most of our specialist support services in the Student Hub , a central space where you can access all the information and support you may need during your time at university.
The Student Hub is also your first point of contact if you have any queries relating to your course, including questions about your timetable, options, and assessments and extenuating circumstances.
Our mental health and wellbeing team can help if you're experiencing difficulties during your time at uni and offer support including talking therapy (SST, counselling and CBT), groups/workshops, mental health advice and social prescription.
There's plenty of support to help you throughout your studies, including online resources, support with assistive technology from the disability advice team, 1:1 help from our library, and virtual workshops covering digital, learning, English language and career skills.
Our team of funding advisers are here to help with all aspects of student finance, from student loans, to bursaries, or cost of living advice.
They can also help if you're experiencing financial difficulties during your studies.
Studying as a mature student has its own unique challenges.
Our support team can help you with tips and advice if you're having concerns about studying for a degree course while juggling other responsibilities.
Everyone has the right to feel safe and welcome at Solent University.
If you're a current student and you or someone you know has experienced any incident of harmful behaviour, such as bullying, harassment, discrimination or sexual violence, we encourage you to report it confidentially so that we can offer support.
Our international advisers support you with immigration, visas, Home Office regulations, and all other aspects of study in the UK.
Solent Careers are committed to getting Solent students into great careers by offering impartial information, advice and guidance to support you and help you achieve your ambitions.
We offer support for armed service leavers and members of the wider armed forces community - particularly as they seek to resettle into civilian life and retrain for a new career.
Our friendly team can help you with any questions you have about living in student residences or finding private accommodation in Southampton.
Find out more about the student support on offer at Solent - as well as our courses and facilities - at an open day.
It's the perfect opportunity to speak to our teams about your student journey at Solent.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/learning-at-solent:
With gold-rated teaching, real-world learning, industry-standard facilities and outstanding opportunities to develop your industry connections, Southampton Solent is a fantastic place to kickstart your career.
Here’s our top ten reasons why Solent’s the place for you.
Every year, our recognition grows in the most trusted university rankings, especially when it comes to student satisfaction – and the latest Guardian University Guide puts Solent in the national top 20% for teaching quality across several subject areas.
Solent is the only university in the region with gold rankings in all three parts of the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF), awarded in recognition of our typically outstanding student experience, outcomes and overall.
Our students work together across courses and disciplines – just like in the real world, meaning when you graduate you're already a professional.
At Re:So, our on-campus boutique, students can promote and sell their work.
At Solent Creatives you’ll work on real-world projects for real-world businesses.
And at Solent Productions, students from across our courses work at live events, music festivals and with the country’s best-known broadcasters.
Our students are connected to professional networks and work experience opportunities, putting you ahead in the job market.
Whether it’s volunteering abroad, gaining work experience at major national or international events, or working with external clients on projects which boost your CV, there’s no shortage of opportunity at Solent.
From our virtual production stage, to a fully-equipped South Coast Institute of Technology, a BASES-accredited biomechanics lab, to professional-grade photography, television and recording studios, our investment in cutting-edge facilities giving you hands-on skills with the latest industry-grade technology.
Our courses are designed with industry input and frequently re-accredited, so you can be sure that the skills you learn are not only up to date, but exactly what employers are looking for.
Going to university isn’t just about what you study, it’s about where you live.
Southampton is the largest city on the south coast, big enough to be buzzing but not so big that you’re lost in it all.
And don’t take our word for it.
Southampton was voted one of the top ten places to live in StudentCrowd’s Best Student Cities survey.
*2024 PwC Good Growth for Cities
We're all about empowering our community to live their best lives – that's why we offer a wide range of help and advice.
At Solent’s Student Hub, we offer a range of specialist support to help you at every stage of your university journey.
And with a free gym membership for every new student during semester one, we’ve got you covered physically as well as mentally.
Our campus is a real cultural hub, bringing students together from all across the globe, and bringing their diverse experience and perspectives together into something bigger, better, brighter.
You’ll have plenty of chances to broaden your own experience, too; our connections with universities and employers around the world offering opportunities for study or work overseas as part of your studies.
We proudly address some of today’s most pressing issues, from social policy to the environment.
Whether it’s designing an electric ferry, tackling health inequalities in communities, or advancing marine sustainability, we use our expertise and resources to make a practical difference in the world around us.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/sport-at-solent:
We're a sporting university, with national accreditations, such as TASS Dual Career, UKAD, and UK Athletics., and active teams at every level.
Whether you want to improve your sporting performance, have fun with friends, try something different, or even set up a brand new club, we've got everything you need to succeed.
The Sports Complex supports and enables excellence in our sport, health, and fitness-related degree programmes, as well as associated teaching and research.
Facilities in the complex include two sports halls, two fitness studios, a general purpose gym, a high performance gym, health and fitness gym and sport and exercise therapy clinical space.
Our Test Park Sports Ground enables students on our football degrees to carry out the practical training elements of their course.
And with a 3G all-weather floodlit pitch, FA level floodlit football pitch, and floodlit rugby pitch, Test Park also hosts football, rugby and American football training sessions and fixtures, as well as local community clubs and academies.
Work towards your fitness goals with a monthly gym membership or day pass at an affordable price and with no joining fee -  available for students, staff and the general public.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities:
Solent University is committed to investing in our already world-class facilities that our students and partners can benefit from.
Three- and two-dimensional model-making workshop for plastics and timber-based projects.
The perfect blend of technology and expertise - Solent's advanced composites laboratory is backed by 40 years of experience.
Discover Solent's 3D printing and robotics systems, laser cutting, CNC and ancillary finishing services.
Dedicated studios for 2D, 3D and stop-motion animation
A purpose-designed and built laboratory equipped with scientific apparatus, enabling students to gain first-hand experience of practical experiments.
A purpose-built suite designed for post production of audio for film and TV.
Study the science of the body's movement in our purpose-built biomechanics laboratory.
Solent has a suite of newly-developed biomedical laboratories, purpose built to support teaching and research in biomedical science and nutrition.
The bridge simulators and ECDIS suites are used for training deck officers in the use of radar, ECDIS, automatic radar plotting aids and other electronic aids to maintain safety of navigation.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance:
Worried about the cost of going to university?
There's plenty of support on offer to ensure that financial circumstances don't stop you from gaining a higher education.
Tuition fees can vary depending on what course you're studying, whether you're full-time or part-time and where in the world you're arriving from.
Follow the links below to find out how much a course will cost and if you're eligible for any discounts.
Tuition fees
Discounts
Students who are hoping to study at a UK university have a range of finance options available to them.
These include basic tuition fee loans, loans to cover living costs, funding to help cover the cost of maintaining dependants and emergency short-term finance from the University itself.
Paying your fees
Cost of living advice
Sending a payment to the University?
We can now accept credit and debit cards, international payments and bank transfers.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/chat-to-our-students:
If you have a question about studying at Solent or living in Southampton, our students and staff are here to help!
From what you'll study, to living in halls, the societies available, and our sports teams, they can answer your questions.
If you've got specific questions and would prefer to speak to somebody on the phone, or send them by email, here's where you can contact us.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/open-days:
Saturday
27 September 2025
4 October 2025
18 October 2025
We can’t wait for you to explore Solent and see what it’s like to study with us.
We’re offering both on campus and virtual events.
Check below for the next dates, and if you can’t wait, we also run guided campus tours.
Are these the right events for me?
These events are for students who are usually attending university for the first time.
On campus
Saturday 18 October
Wednesday 29 October
These events are for those wishing to study a master's degree at Solent.
Saturday 29 November
These events are for those looking to train as a ship's deck, engineer, or electro-technical officer in the Merchant Navy or on superyachts.
Saturday 4 October
Saturday 15 November
These events are for anyone considering studying for a higher or degree apprenticeship at Solent.
If you attend a physical open day and live outside the local authority of Southampton City Council, or have travelled from outside the UK, you can apply to receive an Amazon voucher towards the cost of travel to the event.
South Western Railway are also offering discounted rail fares.
Why not attend a campus tour?
You’ll be guided around the campus by one of our student ambassadors and shown the main facilities.
Please note, at this time we're unable to include the residences on the tour.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduation:
Graduation week is the highlight of the University calendar.
The occasion is an opportunity for your family, friends, and those who've helped you along the way to join you in celebrating your success.
If you experience any issues viewing it on this page, please use this link to view it on YouTube .
The 2025 graduation schedule is available here .
Timings for the day are available here .
Where do the ceremonies take place?
All graduation ceremonies will be held at the O2 Southampton Guildhall, located centrally within the city.
The postcode for the Guildhall is SO14 7LP.
For further information please visit the Guildhall’s website .
How long does the ceremony last?
Each graduation ceremony lasts for approximately an hour and a half.
Will I be seated with my family?
No.
Students are seated in a designated 'students only' area.
This is because students are required to walk across the Guildhall stage as part of the ceremony.
What happens on the day of the ceremony?
First you'll collect your graduation gown, and then make your way over to the Guildhall to register.
Registration will open one and a half hours before your ceremony, and will close 30 minutes before the start of each ceremony.
You and your guests must be seated 30 minutes before your ceremony starts.
Your ceremony will begin with a welcome speech and the processional party will make their way to the stage before the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor or their representative addresses the auditorium.
Graduands will be announced as they walk across the stage, where they'll shake the Chancellor or Vice-Chancellor's hand.
Once all graduands have been announced, the processional party will leave the stage.
Where will I park?
Unfortunately car parking isn't available on campus.
Details of parking in the city can be found on the Southampton City Council website .
For further information about travelling to Southampton, including maps and alternative car parking information, see our find us pages.
Where can I go for refreshments?
Following your ceremony, you are invited to join your fellow graduates at the post-graduation reception in the marquee in Guildhall Square.
This is an excellent opportunity to meet up and celebrate with everyone involved in your studies.
If you have any queries about the graduation ceremonies, please contact us:
Email: graduations@solent.ac.uk Assessments and Ceremonies Team: 023 8201 2508
Once you graduate, you'll become a fully-fledged member of the Solent alumni community.
This is a network of over 75,000 talented individuals around the world, all with a special connection to our University.
If you undertook your course at Warsash Maritime School, head over to your Warsash alumni community here .
As part of this global community, you can take advantage of a range of exclusive benefits , including:
In the meantime, join your online alumni community
Follow us on social media and #SolentForLife to get updates on the latest events and opportunities:
Like our page on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Instagram
Join our LinkedIn group
Don't forget, 15 months after you finish your course, we will be contacting you to find out what you have been up to since leaving Solent.
Keep an eye out for the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
So, whether you're freelancing, running your own business, undertaking postgraduate study or in your first job, make sure you shout about your success.
Finally, if you'd like to take home a memento of the time you spent at Solent, head to our stand during graduation week, where we'll have a range of alumni merchandise on offer.
You can also buy this online .
Solent Careers has a commitment to continue to support students when they finish their studies and after graduation.
The services offered by the team include one-to-one advice and guidance , continued access to Solent Careers Online , and access to a large employer network through our jobs board.
If you would like advice on your career options and opportunities, or just need some help with CV writing or interview techniques, there are a number of tools that you may find useful, including Solent’s CV and application guide .
You may have used Solent Careers Online when you were a student.
Solent Careers Online is the careers and jobs website designed specifically for Solent's students and graduates.
Why not use Solent Careers Online to:
Final year students need to change to graduate access before you leave university to get continued access to Solent Careers Online - you can do this any time during your final year.
Start-up business support – we offer impartial advice and practical help on freelance work and setting up a business.
Find out more.
You can contact the team by emailing careers@solent.ac.uk
Did you know that here at Solent we offer a variety of postgraduate courses so you can carry on studying the subject you love, or diversify your knowledge and learn something new that can complement your undergraduate studies.
Our courses include architecture, business, computing, creative arts, film, health and sport, maritime, marketing and communications, project management, and more.
Besides improving their academic qualifications, our alumni have said that their postgraduate studies:
As an alumni you can benefit from our alumni discount with 20% off your course.
Student Finance England also offer a postgraduate loan which you can use towards your fees or living costs.
If you want to find out more, check out our postgraduate pages or book on a postgraduate open day .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks:
Weekly activities, challenges, and guides to help you get ready for university, from now until freshers' week.
Current week
Take a look at this week's article for tips and tools on making friends in your first few weeks of uni.
Previous week
With just a few weeks to go until you start university - we’ve got the vital list of things you’ll need to make your life easy.
Upcoming week
Interested in getting to know like-minded people when you go to uni?
Clubs and societies are your first stop.
You've made it!
All the hard-work you’ve put in, and especially all the studying you've done, has paid off and you're now ready for your uni adventure.
We'll keep you updated with all the latest news from Southampton Solent University and your area of interest.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories:
First Team Scout
Tottenham Hotspur
Showing 202 stories that fit your criteria
Apprentice
Airbus
Data Analyst
UK Government
Current student
Solent Creatives Adviser
Southampton Solent University
Mechanical Design Engineer
Falcon Tenders
Child Contact Officer, and Male Domestic Violence Case Worker
Relationships Australia NSW
Social Media Lead
Southampton Football Club
Engineering Manager
Sainsbury's

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/life-in-southampton/cost-of-living:
We know the rising costs of living can be a concern for many students, from housing and food to transportation or utilities.
So whether you’re looking for help and support, advice on ways to manage your budget, or how to make meals on a budget, this is the place to start.
Everyone’s situation is unique, but our short guide on the costs of living in Southampton can really help with budgeting and give you an idea on what it will cost to live here.
The city provides ample opportunities for cost-effective living, with its vibrant mix of local markets, student discounts at numerous places, and accessible public transport.
If you receive a contextual offer from Solent, you might also be eligible to receive a one-off scholarship upon enrolment.
We also have a range of available scholarships to help support you during your time here.
Starting uni is an exciting time – and we want you to enjoy it!
To making your transition as smooth and stress-free as possible, we're offering a range of incentives to help reduce your financial worries: vouchers to make you feel at home in Solent student halls, free gym memberships to promote wellbeing, and support with additional course costs.
We invest in your employability from the start.
Our careers service, Solent Careers are on hand to help you secure employment which works around your studies, placements to set your CV apart from the rest, and even professional mentoring, matching you with industry professionals to help you develop the right skills and confidence.
If worries are getting in the way of your studies, our team is here to help – offering a range of academic support to help you.
From hardship grants and emergency loans to essential advice, our funding teams can help you manage your finances.
Money problems can have a big impact on your wellbeing.
We offer mental health and other support.
If you're looking for additional support to manage the cost of living as a student, the Solent Students’ Union may be able to help – check out their cost of living hub at https://www.solentsu.co.uk/costoflivinghub .
We’ve also put together a list of external resources you might find helpful – but please do reach out to us at Solent if you’re struggling, and we’ll offer help or advice any way we can.
Links to advice on budgeting as a student:
UCAS budgeting advice
Money Saving Expert
Save the Student
Student Space
The Complete University Guide
A list of additional student discounts:
UNiDAYS
TOTUM
Student Beans
BBC Good Food
Beat the budget
Budget Bytes
ASDA (just around the corner from campus)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/enterprises:
Through our enterprises, students can get involved with video production, retail, or even work with professional athletes to gain valuable real-world experience alongside their degree studies.
Re:So is Solent University’s retail initiative, showcasing student and graduate talents across a range of creative disciplines.
Our students and graduates can use the store as a platform to sell their creations in the campus store or online, gain work experience, or take up mentoring opportunities to help boost their skills and experience.
Athletes of all abilities can benefit from our specialist equipment and expert advice to help improve performance or build an injury rehabilitation programme.
Operating since 2007, Solent Productions offers students and graduates real-world learning opportunities working under expert guidance.
Our in-house creative agency is staff entirely by students from across our many creative courses.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance/bursaries:
Bursaries support you through your studies; they are non-repayable.
Please also see our pages on scholarships and grants for more information about financial support.
Solent University seeks to do all we can to support students who are in financial need and we are constantly reviewing our offering to ensure the money has the maximum impact on the students who need it most; therefore all Solent bursaries can be subject to change.
We will always try to keep this page up to date, but please email student.funding@solent.ac.uk if you would like to check any of the details below.
Applicants for September 2025/26 entry should apply for bursaries through the applicant portal .
You will need your applicant user name and password to log in.
The University offers a bursary for students who have been in local authority care.
The support package includes a £1,500 bursary each academic year.
Eligible students should complete (depending on their situation).
For further information on the support available to care leavers please visit the care leavers support page or download our leaflet .
Students who provide significant care for their parents or an immediate family member (excluding children), and have been recognised as such by their local authority, may be able to apply for the University’s carers bursary.
This is a non-repayable bursary of £1,200 awarded to carers who continue to have caring responsibilities while they are studying at university.
It is paid in instalments into the student’s bank account.
Students who are recognised as ‘irreconcilably estranged’ by Student Finance England can apply to the University’s estranged students bursary for each year of their studies.
This is a non-repayable bursary of £1,500 awarded to students who continue to be estranged from their parents while they are studying at university.
It is paid in instalments into the student’s bank account over the academic year.
For further information on how to apply, please visit the grants homepage .
The Local Student Bursary Scheme is entirely funded by alumni (former Solent students), staff and friends of Solent University, and it is through their kind donations that we can support local students.
The bursary is £1,000 and for one academic year only.
We are delighted to announce that there are approximately 29 bursaries to award for 2024/25.
Applicants must be:
Any full-time undergraduate student can apply (if they meet the criteria), however priority will be given to those from the lowest gross household incomes.
Find out more and apply
Successful applicants will be notified in December 2024 of the result of their application.
If you are interested in donating to our Local Student Bursary Scheme, please contact our Communities Development Team .
Current students doing a social work degree may be eligible for the social work bursary .
The bursary recognises that social work students have to undertake 200 days of hands-on placements, which reduces their ability to take a part-time job.
It is payable to undergraduate students in year two and year three, and to postgraduate students .
All students must reapply for their bursary each academic year.
Please call 0300 3301 342 (NHS) for more information, or email them using nhsbsa.swb1@nhsbsa.nhs.uk .
The Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) can help to pay for any costs or expenses incurred that arise due to disability.
It is not income-assessed and there is no upper age limit.
Full-time, part-time and postgraduate students with disabilities are able to make an application for DSA.
Applications are made to Student Finance England (SFE) via GOV.UK .
The allowance will be paid either directly to you or to the supplier of your specialist services.
SFE will notify you in writing about the equipment and support that they will fund.
This process usually takes four to six weeks.
For more information, please contact the University's Disability Advice Team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/life-in-southampton:
We’re a thriving, diverse city on the south coast of England, less than an hour and a half away from London.
Southampton has a rich cultural identity that makes it unique – a blend of history and cultures that influences our food, music and community.
There’s a place for everyone here, and we can’t wait for you to find yours.
Whether you’re looking for shopping heaven or a skateboarding collective, keen to dive into the local music scene, want to lose yourself in the crowd at Premiership football, or fancy a bit of climbing, Southampton has it all.
We’re a friendly city that’s easy to explore on foot.
And with beautiful parks (perfect for people-watching) scattered across the city, you’re never far from green space.
Add an eclectic mix of festivals, galleries, markets, events and live music venues to suit every taste, and you’ll get the gist of what our city is all about.
Think tiny Thai cafes with big flavours, a medieval jail turned art gallery, vegan eats to rival the best, free DJ sets in the middle of the day, kilo sales, board game cafes, ghost walks, record fairs, the lot.
Whatever your vibe, you’ll find what you’re looking for here.
Southampton is a vibrant and diverse city, renowned for its rich cultural mix and welcoming atmosphere.
Our city is for everyone, boasting a dynamic blend of communities and nationalities – and offering a fantastic choice of international cuisines, cultural festivals, and community events.
Managing your living costs is key to enjoying your university experience, and our guide is here to help.
Southampton is affordable and student-friendly compared to a lot of larger UK cities – particularly in the south – but smart budgeting will definitely help you land on your feet.
Explore our detailed advice to make the most of your time in Southampton while keeping your expenses in check.
We love our city – it’s a great place to live, study and work.
Not convinced yet?
We’ve brought the very best of Southampton together in one quick list, so dip in and find out why we love this special place.
Our open days are the perfect way to discover Southampton, our communities, and Solent’s place at the heart of our city.
We’d love to show you around!
And if you live outside of the city boundary Council, or have travelled from outside of the UK, you can apply for an Amazon voucher to cover your travel costs.
So what are you waiting for?

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply/undergraduate-applications/ultimate-clearing-guide:
We've created the ultimate guide to help you understand what Clearing is and what you need to do.
Clearing happens every year as part of the UCAS application process.
It is there to help you find a place at university if:
If you have applied to university, you'll have to wait until results day to see if you've been offered a place.
However, even if you have a place, you can still change your mind and apply for a different university or course through Clearing.
Clearing opens Saturday 5 July and closes 20 October 2025.
Don’t panic - you’re not alone, thousands of students go through clearing each year, for lots of different reasons.
Whatever brings you here, whatever area you’re interested in studying, you’ll be able to find a course that fits.
If you apply for university now, you’ll automatically be placed into Clearing.
You can start an application through UCAS, or alternatively plenty of universities offer a direct application process on their website – ours is on our Clearing page .
If you’ve already had your results, you can start calling universities now.
If you haven’t been made any offers, or you’ve declined any offers you’ve had so far, then you’re automatically in Clearing.
You will still have to wait for your results before trying to get a place at university, but once you’ve got them pick up the phone and get calling!
If you got your results and they’re not what you expected, that's okay!
There’s still a chance for you to go to university, so don't panic.
If you didn't meet the conditions for your firm choice but did get what you needed for your insurance choice university, you don't need to do anything – they will automatically place you and you can sit back and relax.
But if you decide that you would rather go somewhere else through Clearing, just contact your insurance choice and ask them to release you to go through Clearing.
It’s worth ringing around a few universities first to check that they have a place for you before you do this though.
If you didn’t meet the conditions for either your firm or insurance choices, you’ll automatically be entered into Clearing.
Applying for university is a big commitment, and it's okay to change your mind!
Maybe you got better results than you expected, or perhaps your circumstances have changed.
Either way, if you want to change universities or courses, you can decline your place in your application to go through Clearing instead.
All you need to do is call your university choices and ask them to release you so you can enter into Clearing.
We're proud that we were awarded TEF Gold for our courses here at Solent.
Discover your perfect course and find out why.
Everyone is a priority to us - discover the fantastic support (and fantastic courses) available through Clearing at Solent.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events:
Showing 15 results that fit your criteria
Experience life as a student at Solent at one of our on-campus or virtual undergraduate, postgraduate or maritime open days.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub:
Search from hundreds of news, blogs, events and videos from our media hub
In Solent's 20th year, the University's Senior Associate Academic Registrar, Sarah Bishop, reflects on two decades of graduation.
A BSc (Hons) Football Studies alumni is now working with his favourite football club, Crystal Palace.
BA (Hons) Photography student, Roxanne Bennett, has explored river pollution in her Final Major Project.
At Southampton Solent University, an in-house creative agency is connecting talented students to businesses who need their skills.
Millie Payne, a BA (Hons) Sports Journalism graduate, is sharing her experience of applying to Solent University through Clearing.
Xavier Hinves and Tom Holland are heading to the Canoe Sprint European and World Championships this summer.
Southampton Solent University graduate Shiraz Zawahir, is recognised for his inspiring work with communities through Saints Foundation.
A Southampton Solent student will join the GB Sports Therapy team at the World Transplant Games in 2025
Dr Nick Hampton, Course Leader for Computer Games Programming and Design is exploring the rewards and risks of videogame streaming.
Retired Commonwealth Games medallist, Kelly Simm, talks dual careers.
Dr Roy Hanney, Associate Professor of Media, explores the relevance of Joseph Campbell's hero's journey in contemporary storytelling.
BA (Hons) Interior Design Decoration undergrad, Sophie Criddle has created a Final Major Project which weaves in her own experiences.
Sports Journalism students were given the chance to report from Wembley Stadium over the weekend.
Ready for the Future: Strategy 2035 - Southampton Solent's ten year vision has launched
Southampton Solent University is collaborating with Communicare to develop a new evaluation method, informed by research.
Electric trimaran vessel successfully concludes initial sea trials on Southampton water.
Researchers are collaborating with industry partners to address work-related ill-health among maritime workers.
Solent's project with Chartwell Marine and Newcastle Marine Services has entered the test phase.
Rachel Lamb, Course Leader Fashion Media and Beauty Promotion, has been awarded a National Teaching Fellowship.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs:
Showing 127 results that fit your criteria
Students from the Department of Film and Media tell the story of young people in Southampton through a new film.
This Student Volunteering Week, find out how students at Solent make a difference as volunteers.
Two Music Business students took home a trophy at the 2024 Southampton Film Week.
Popular Music Associate Lecturer, Paul Statham, is using his success in music to inspire Solent students.
A project created by BA (Hons) Criminology students is being utilised for training purposes.
Hundreds of students from around England will visit Solent for the National Student Television Association Conference and Awards.
At Solent University, we strive to connect students to real-world learning.
Business students welcomed Heathrow Airport onto campus.
For over 20 years Solent University has been offering students the work experience of a lifetime at a range of music festivals.
Graduate, Rebecca Marshall awarded CIMSPA prize for her outstanding contribution to her degree and multiple volunteering roles.
Solent's final year creative students showcased their work at the end of year summer show.
Re:So, Solent's student retail initiative, ran a campus clothes swap supported by John Lewis FashionCycle, saving items from landfill
BA (Hons) Fashion Management with Marketing student Aimee Biddle recently won footware retailer size?'s Student of the Year award
BA (Hons) Fine Art students showcased their 'Introspective' exhibition in shipping containers in Southampton's cultural quarter.
Monica Basie, a student nurse at Solent University, was selected to represent nursing students on the local care system student council
It's Fashion Revolution Week, and our Solent sustainable fashion revolutionaries are having a positive impact in the industry

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research:
At Solent, our aim is to undertake innovative research that has a wide-ranging and significant impact on the experiences and learning of our students and on the lives of those in our local, national, and international communities.
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Enabling Strategy is designed to support our delivery of research that will make a positive difference and create social value.
Aligning closely to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals , our research priorities fall under four broad areas:
The hub for our vibrant and interdisciplinary postgraduate research community.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 results have established Solent as a university with research at its core.
Overall, in REF 2021, 34% of Solent’s research was assessed as world-leading and internationally excellent – up from 19% in 2014; and 50% of our research outputs were rated as world-leading and internationally excellent – up from 28% in 2014.
The University’s submission included research from 59 researchers – up from 43 researchers in 2014.
This improvement in the REF 2021 results has been recognised by a 50% increase in our quality-related (QR) research funding allocation from ~£172k in 2021-22 to ~£255k in 2022-23.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/graduate-school:
The Graduate School supports the postgraduate research (PGR) student community across Solent University.
We aim to ensure our postgraduate research students have a high quality experience in a vibrant and interdisciplinary community.
The Graduate School provides an enriching learning environment for all research students, fostering intellectual and social interaction between graduates, supervisors, and collaborative partners from across the globe.
The Solent Graduate School promotes a research culture that recognises the diversity of researchers' experiences and aspirations and will help you make the most of the resources and opportunities available to support your research, training, and academic development.
We pride ourselves on carrying out not only pioneering research, but also research that addresses real world problems.
We offer opportunities to study for a Master's by Research (MRes), Master of Philosophy (MPhil) or Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in several areas.
At the Solent Graduate School, we want to help you achieve your best and discover new insights.
Whether you’re thinking about applying for a PhD, or already underway with your research studies, you will find useful guidance and information on these pages.
At Southampton Solent University, we put making a difference at the heart of our teaching, learning and research and knowledge exchange activities.
Our aim is to learn from and respond to our local and international communities about their priorities, challenges, experiences and successes.
For more details, please contact research.admissions@solent.ac.uk .
Located in the Research Hub, the heart of our research community, our Graduate School provides support and a high-quality experience for Solent University’s postgraduate research students.
Vice Chancellor’s Postgraduate Research Scholarship
Join our vibrant community and seize the opportunity to embark on a transformative PhD journey with us!
We have previously offered our Vice Chancellor’s Postgraduate Research Scholarship and hope to do so again for 2025/2026.
This fully funded PhD scholarship covers full fees and includes a UKRI-linked annual stipend.
We hope to have further information on this shortly and will keep you updated.
Kickstart your research career with our Master’s by Research (MRes) degree.
This postgraduate research degree allows you to plan and lead your own research project in any subject within the University’s portfolio.
It offers a fantastic opportunity to deepen your subject interest through extensive research for a range of sectors, and serves as an excellent stepping stone to a PhD.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/meet-our-researchers:
Our Environment and Engineering research area is led by Dr Laurie Wright , Associate Professor of Marine Sustainability.
Laurie is an environmental scientist who leads Solent’s Environmental and Engineering research strategy.
He joined Solent University in September 2013.
Previously, he was a teaching fellow in carbon management at the University of Southampton.
He is co-chair of the American Center for Life Assessment (ACLCA) Education Committee, and a member of the Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation (FSLCI).
Laurie's expertise concerns the sustainability of industry environment interactions by understanding flows of materials and energy and their resulting impacts.
He is particularly interested in investigating and reducing environmental impacts from the maritime industry and in the marine environment.
His work is contributing to the development of sustainable solutions for maritime operations including in low carbon fuels, the role of remote and autonomous systems, and port management.
He has a track record of appointments to service on external bodies, on the scientific and organisational committees of several international conferences, and as a scientific adviser to several national and international working groups.
In 2016 he received the American Centre for Life Cycle Assessment (ACLCA) Individual Award for Academic Leadership.
Our Human Function and Health research area is led by Dr Shelley Duncan .
Shelley is the Human Function and Health (UoA 24) Research Lead.
Shelley’s expertise lies within the fields of cognitive and behavioural neuroscience and exercise physiology.
A core driver behind her work involves the development and facilitation of research that has potential to lead to real-world impact.
To facilitate this activity, Shelley utilises multimodal research designs that incorporate mobile brain imaging, ambulatory ECG, and EMG to evaluate the relationships between cognitive and physical function.
Shelley’s core areas of interest include the evaluation of the impact and dynamics associated with ageing and the influence of neurological diseases, namely Parkinson’s disease, and the evaluation and use of different tools and interventions, such as simulated immersive environments, to optimise decision making within the real-world context.
Shelley’s portfolio of research, partnership-working with academic partners and community organisations, as well as her contributions to the academic community through contributions to peer review duties, course leadership of the postgraduate certificate in research methods, leadership of the Mind-body connections research group, and PhD supervision, underpins Shelley’s proactive approach to the development and leadership of Solent University’s sport and exercise science researchers, whose work concerns the evaluation of human function, health and sporting performance.
Our Media, Culture and Arts research area is led by Dr Donna Peberdy , Associate Professor of Performance, Sex and Gender.
Donna is a senior lecturer in the Southampton School of Film and Television.
Donna’s research focuses on acting and performance, gender, sexuality, and the politics of identity.
She is the author of Masculinity and Film Performance: Male Angst in Contemporary American Cinema (Palgrave Macmillan 2011), which was awarded CHOICE Outstanding Academic Title in 2012.
She is co-editor of Tainted Love: Screening Sexual Perversion (I.
B.
Tauris 2017) and series co-editor of the Screening Sex book series for Edinburgh University Press.
Her research has been published in peer-reviewed journals Transnational Cinemas , Celebrity Studies , The New Review of Film and Television , Men & Masculinities , and numerous edited collections.
She is co-curator of www.screeningsex.com and co-convenes the Screening Sex scholarly interest group for the British Association for Film, Television and Screen Studies.
Our Social Policy research area is led by Dr Karen Burnell , Associate Professor of Applied Psychology.
Karen, a Chartered Research Psychologist, completed her ESRC-funded PhD in 2007.
Since 2008, Karen has worked in a number of different universities.
Karen joined UCL as a post-doctoral research associate in 2008, working on the NIHR-funded SHIELD programme, which saw the development of three psychosocial interventions for people with dementia and their carers tested through randomised controlled trials.
Karen then joined the University of Portsmouth as a lecturer in health sciences research.
In this role, she gained invaluable experience of the bidding process, working alongside charities and academic partners to develop or evaluate psycho-social interventions, predominantly for the veteran community.
While at the University of Portsmouth, Karen was promoted to senior lecturer, and joined Solent University in 2018 as a senior lecturer in psychology.
Karen’s current research concerns how and why heritage programmes can support wellbeing and mental health.
Karen’s portfolio of funded research, partnership-working with academic partners and community organisations, as well as her contributions to the academic community through contributions to expert review panels, peer review duties, and PhD supervision, make her well placed to develop and lead Solent University’s social researchers aligned to the REF Unit of Assessment 20, whose work concerns improving individual and community wellbeing through practice, provision, and policy.
Our five doctoral co-ordinators maintain oversight of the quality of the postgraduate research student experience in their area:
Search our research repository if you'd like to view the profiles of active researchers here at Solent.
You can browse our research outputs and project content here too, to really get a feel for the diversity of research and knowledge exchange activities taking place here at Solent.
The Research office team provide support to Solent’s research staff and students.
The Team provides leadership to the development and implementation of the University’s research and knowledge exchange and engaging with our communities enabling strategies, building a supportive research culture in the University and enhancing the University’s research and knowledge exchange funding, income and league table position.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups:
Research at Solent covers four research themes: Environment and Engineering; Human Function and Health; Media, Culture and the Arts; and Social Research and Policy.
With a strong interdisciplinary focus, we aim to address societal challenges through collaborative research, as cross-pollination of ideas and approaches lead to innovative solutions.
Explore this page to find out more about Solent’s areas of research, and the work of our research groups.
Football Science and Performance
Wellbeing and Applied Research in Psychology Group (WARP)
The Solent Identities and Inequalities Research Group
Art, Environment and Social Change
Contemporary Screen Studies Research Group
Engineering Design and Manufacture Research Group
Music, Creativity and the Cultural Economy Research Group
Regenerative Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Research Group
Solent Computing and AI Research Group
Warsash Maritime Human Element Research Group
Warsash Maritime Operations Research Group
Warsash Maritime Technology and Innovation Research Group

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-areas:
Southampton Solent University has four key research areas:
Historically, one of the key research strengths of Solent has been in maritime, with its long history and association with shipping, ports and seafarer training.
Our goal is to pursue and build world-leading science and engineering research, to be a leader in the creation, sharing, and application of insight, innovation, and knowledge for a safe and sustainable maritime future.
Read more about this research area
This exciting research area brings together the expertise of academics from health and exercise psychology, sports psychology, psychophysiology, exercise physiology, biomechanics, physiotherapy, nursing and neuroscience.
The multidiscipline nature of the area is demonstrated in a snapshot of research topics returned to REF, including, music festivals; sex on screen; privacy and digital culture; documentary and digital ethics; photographic works of landscapes; and screen acting, stardom and performance.
Our portfolio of social research is rich and diverse, with some of the most pressing societal concerns at the forefront of exploration.
Solent University's social research concerns improving individual and community wellbeing through practice, provision, and policy.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges:
Solent has two teams dedicated to supporting your students.
Through engaging and interactive events and activities, we are here to help them discover the many opportunities in higher education and the careers that could be available to them.
Our Step into Success (widening participation) Team work mainly with primary and secondary (pre-16) disadvantaged students in and around the Southampton area, raising aspirations, raising attainment, and awareness of higher education.
The Schools and Colleges Liaison Team work with post-16 students in Hampshire and across the country, enabling them to consider the opportunities available at Solent University.
Students from all key stages can benefit from engaging sessions, linked to the Gatsby Benchmarks, which encourage them to think about how university can help them with their future.
To find out more about our widening participation and post-16 activities, please see below.
Activities for schools, colleges and communities which support disadvantaged learners and communities to access higher education.
Activities to support all post 16 students considering applying to university.
To make university available to everyone, our flexible offers consider applicants’ challenges, circumstances, background and achievements.
Take a look at our series of events, including applying, student finance, and accommodation, for those considering studying at Solent.
A support service designed to provide a valuable service to the schools in and around Southampton.
On-campus and virtual events throughout the year.
Travel voucher scheme for students who live outside the local authority of Southampton City Council, or who have travelled from outside the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/alumni:
Welcome to your alumni network of talented individuals just like you, located all around the world - each with a special connection to Solent University.
Whether it’s been days or decades since you left us, or you’re soon to don your cap and gown, things are constantly changing at Solent.
We’re always innovating, but we’re also immensely proud of our heritage.
And that means you.
Remember to keep us up-to-date with any changes to your details to continue receiving the latest news, events and opportunities.
Stay connected, stay Solent for life.
As part of our global alumni network, you can take advantage of a range of benefits.
Browse what's on offer and remember to check back often for anything new.
Need a reference?
Lost your degree certificate and need a replacement?
Require your transcript?
Find out more about the services we provide our alumni community.
There are so many ways you can give back to Solent.
Whether it's giving a talk about your career, mentoring, or acting as an ambassador, your support is invaluable.
Information for graduates about the Graduate Outcomes survey.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/business-solutions:
Welcome to your one-stop-shop for enabling business growth and development.
Home to world-class facilities, creative communities and a future-ready business school, working with business has long been in our DNA here at Solent.
From providing learning and training solutions that enable employee development to co-creating new business solutions that help the business achieve its strategic aims, our team of business advisors are here to work with you in finding the right solution for you and your business.
Whatever your scale and sector as a business there are a variety of ways we can work together.
We offer a range of solutions to support your organisations growth and can also work with you to access external funding that can enable research and collaborative projects.
With such a wide range of opportunities available we recommend that you register your interest and let us know a bit about the challenges that you are looking to address.
With such a wide range of opportunities available, we recommend you register your interest and let us know a bit about the challenges you are looking to address.
Simply enter your details here and our team will get in touch with you.
Our innovation vouchers enable local SMEs to claim up to £5,000 towards a project.
This could include help with specific challenges faced by the business, proof of concept, or service improvement.
The value of the innovation voucher is up to £5,000 which is used towards the final costs of the project activity, as agreed in your contract.
Ideal for medium-to-long term projects, we can work with you to develop a proposal that accesses government funding to enable delivery, bring new skills into your business, access latest academic thinking and deliver a strategic, innovative project through a knowledge-based partnership.
Ideal for businesses looking for a new perspective on a project or challenge but currently have limited internal resource.
Work with our academic and student community to identify creative business solutions.
Solent Creatives is the University’s student-powered creative agency.
Whether you're a start-up, SME, or corporate business, they connect you with our talented students to provide creative services such as videography, graphic design, photography, branding, websites and much more.
Your business can collaborate with emerging creative talent while giving our students valuable, real-world, paid experience.
Apprenticeships are a great way to develop new and existing talent within your business.
Solent has a wide range of apprenticeship courses from Level 4 to Level 7, within leadership and management, digital, construction, and health.
We can support you with gaining access to funding, guide you through the recruitment and eligibility process, and help with recruiting apprentices into your business.
From part-time work to graduate schemes, businesses can promote their employment opportunities for free on our online jobs board, Solent Careers Online.
There is also the opportunity for businesses to attend our Careers Fairs which are held regularly throughout the academic year.
Work experience and placements provide businesses with the chance to benefit from fresh insight, whilst providing our students with an opportunity to apply their academic learning and gain valuable work experience.
Take a look at how we are already working with industry to enable business growth and development; while also impacting upon wider society.
Once a month we make our community meeting space available for use by local charities and community organisations.
Perfect for hosting committee or local partnership meetings, workshops, or training for a maximum of 15 people.
Ideal for businesses who don't want the overheads of expensive equipment, our campus is home to industry-standard facilities which can be hired by businesses.
From film studios to 3D printing facilities, take a look at our range on campus.
We offer a range of campus facilities available for hire, providing versatile spaces suited for conferences, meetings, events, and more.
Solent University and Southampton FC have a long history of working together, enabling student success and developing work ready, world ready, future ready graduates.
Located a stone’s throw away from St Mary’s Stadium, the home of the Saints, Solent is proud to be the Club's official university partner.
Made up of senior leaders from across industry and our civic communities, our impact boards play an active role in informing curriculum development, shaping student success and driving positive graduate outcomes.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/community:
Our East Park Terrace campus is based in the heart of the city with satellite sites located across the wider city region.
We are proud to call Southampton our home, with our impact rippling across the region to benefit Hampshire and the wider Central South.
Being located in the Solent region, the powerhouse of the UK’s maritime sector, our impact goes far beyond our regional shores.
Our global connectivity as a university and place enables us to collaboratively champion and celebrate the region’s diverse communities.
We are a civic university and were among the first in the UK to officially launch a civic agreement – Solent’s Civic Charter.
The Charter outlines our commitment to our communities here in Southampton and across the region.
You can discover more about our charter, impact to date, and ways to get involved below.
If you would like to begin collaborating with us, simply enter your details here and a member of the team will be in touch.
Discover more about how we have been making a difference in Southampton and across the Central South.
Solent University takes its role within the community very seriously, especially in residential areas where the student population is high.
Here you can find out what to do if you encounter a problem
The Sport Education Partnership programme provides a range of contemporary continuous professional development (CPD) and support services designed to support and enhance the local school curriculum.
Health 4 Her is a weight loss intervention for women of ethnic minority and aims to improve the health and wellbeing of participants through education and physical activity in a female exclusive environment.
From part-time seasonal work to volunteering opportunities, you can promote your opportunities for free on our online jobs board.
Simply register an account, upload your details, and promote your opportunities to our alumni and student communities.
Varying in duration to meet the needs of your organisation, student placements provide you with the chance to benefit from fresh insight while providing our students with an opportunity to apply their academic learning.
Placements can provide a great short-term resource for your business while providing an opportunity to develop pipelines of future talent.
Got a creative project that requires extra resource?
Maybe you need a photographer or videographer, or have a graphic design project that needs some creative expertise?
Our in-house student creative agency promotes paid work from organisations that can be undertaken by students outside of their studies.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/solent-global:
Solent University is partnered with institutions and organisations all over the world, as well as attracting students from over 100 different countries.
Our strengths in maritime, the creative industries and sports are globally recognised and our ambition is to be internationally renowned for delivering excellence in everything we do.
By building strong relationships with like-minded organisations across the world, we know we will achieve this ambition and will therefore be better able to:
Our internationalisation strategy has a strong focus on student experience and working with our students to prepare them for a future in an increasingly global society.
A core element of this will be building skills, knowledge and competencies of an international nature in order to achieve the best possible student outcomes in employability.
We know from employers that such experience is highly valued in graduates.
As well as our students, our staff are engaging with global partners to ensure that the experience our students receive is an international one.
The international development team aim to inform, enable and implement the international aspirations of the University and its community by working closely with our staff and students.
They are responsible for leading the University’s global engagement in key regions, identifying opportunities for partnerships and networks.
The team works closely with academic schools and colleagues in other areas of the University to ensure our international activities are providing staff and students with a truly international experience.
Contact the international development office
The international recruitment office is responsible for travelling overseas to meet prospective students, exchange students and alumni; visit partner schools and universities; keep in contact with foreign embassies in the UK; and make sure our international students enjoy their studies and life while they are in Southampton.
They also advise current students who would like to participate in any of our exchange programmes with overseas institutions.
Contact the international recruitment office
View our existing partnerships and find out more about how they work by reading the register of collaborative provision.
Solent University's register of collaborative provision

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/donate-to-solent:
Studying at Solent is an opportunity to fulfil potential – and one that we believe should be available to everyone, no matter their background.
We’re committed to providing excellent university education for all learners; to inspire and enable them to become the next generation of enterprisers, creators and leaders who will shape the communities we serve.
We’re recognised for delivering high-quality teaching and consistently exceed the rigorous national quality requirements for UK higher education.
We’re proud of our students, and everything they achieve after graduation, but to continue our success and achieve our ambitions we rely on donations.
As a charity, generous contributions from our alumni, staff, students and friends allow us to support those that study with us, some of whom might otherwise not take up the life-changing opportunity that higher education provides.
Whether it’s £5 or £1,000, donations help us ensure that Solent University students can make the most of their time here.
Your support enriches the student experience preparing individuals for success after graduation.
Our donors are very important to us.
If you’re interested in becoming a donor, or would just like some more information on the University’s policies, please take a look at our donor charter, linked below.
Details of charity exemption
Gift acceptance and ethical fundraising policy
If you would like to make a donation to the University to help make a difference to our students, please click the button below.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/business-solutions/consultancy-services:
At Solent University our professional consultancy service is delivered by specialist members of staff who have years of expertise in their field.
We tailor our consultancy to your individual requirements, working closely with you to achieve your business objectives.
Some of our specialist consultancy services are outlined below.
If you have specific requirements we would be happy to discuss your individual project or business needs.
If your organisation is experiencing challenges around growth, change or innovation, we can provide expert advice, analysis and interpretation from both staff and students.
We are actively engaged with organisations through a number of initiatives, including student work placements and internships, guest lecturing, research, and engagement with Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs).
Solent Business School works with several professional bodies, including the Chartered Institute of Marketing, Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, Chartered Management Institute, Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, and the Association of Project Management.
This ensures we offer courses that are professionally accredited and relevant, while also developing courses to meet your organisation's requirements.
Solent Business School has recently developed the nationally recognised diploma for the retail property industry , in conjunction with the Revo Education Trust.
This supports the vital knowledge and skill development across the UK for managers in retail and leisure place properties, such as Hammerson, Savills, CBRE, Ellandi, Cadogan Estates, JLL, Cushman & Wakefield and British Land.
Managers from across the UK enjoy an industry-relevant and accessible curriculum, alongside opportunities to progress to leadership and management apprenticeship programmes upon completion.
These provide the associated CMI accreditations and opportunity to continue their professional development.
With the use of consultancy in a practical way to put our knowledge and expertise to work for the benefit of business and the wider community, this can enhance your offering through benefit of our lean practitioners, portfolio and project manager specialists and change agents to provide innovative and sustainable outcomes.
Contact us Telephone: 023 8201 3179 Email: engagement@solent.ac.uk
Our built environment team has a diverse range of skills in the sector and strong links with regional construction companies.
The team members combine wide experience with membership of one or more of the main organisations involved with the construction industry, including:
Facilities at Solent University include a well-equipped soil and construction laboratory, an architectural studio, and IT laboratories with project planning, laser cutters and 3D printers, as well as industry standard software such as CAD and Revit.
The main research and enterprise skills of the team include:
Within the innovation and design centre our specialist staff members have experience in various areas including:
Telephone: 023 8031 9862 Email: engagement@solent.ac.uk
Warsash Maritime School offers specialist research and consultancy services to the maritime industry, particularly in the field of maritime human factors.
We’re involved in some exciting projects.
These include:
This EU-sponsored research project looks into the concerns over human safety, environmental damage and commercial loss due to watch officer fatigue.
Find out more about Project HORIZON
Our research, training and consultancy in maritime human factors aims to increase understanding and awareness of human factors in the international shipping industry.
Our mission is to help improve safety, promote best practice and improve technical and human resource management within shipping.
The research includes the analysis of casualties and the development of near miss and incident reporting systems.
Our full mission bridge simulator can be used for reconstructions of collisions and groundings, often giving insights to the investigation that are not obvious from other evidence sources.
Our specialist staff can also act as expert witnesses.
Previous customers include:
Consultancy in aspects of port development includes examining the operational aspects of changes in a port, such as realigning existing berths, examining proposals for new berths, testing against specific combinations of meteorological conditions and investigating tug requirements and techniques.
Proposed berths, channels and other elements of a port can be built from drawings to achieve pilot and tug master familiarisation prior to the completion of the infrastructure.
The operational needs and procedures for new ship types and sizes can also be investigated on the simulation.
For further information email: wsmse@solent.ac.uk
The University has more than 30 years’ experience of delivering yacht technology courses.
This expertise in yacht production, manufacture and surveying is available for knowledge transfer partnerships and consultancy.
Our CASES-accredited health, exercise and sports science facilities are used to provide sports science support to a wide range of athletes and sports clubs.
The world-class, £1.3m facility has been used to test and train athletes competing in most sports and sports settings, some of which include:
Sports science consultancy at Solent University offers the services of a team of highly experienced and qualified staff with expertise in exercise physiology, strength and conditioning, biomechanics, sport psychology, nutrition, notational analysis, and sports therapy.
Solent Productions is an award-winning media production centre that regularly produces broadcast quality screen content for clients including the BBC, Sony and Glastonbury Festivals.
During 2018, we made animations for Citizens Advice, dramatised training films for the NHS, live streams for the NEC, and made short documentaries for the Superyacht Academy.
Outside broadcasting, drones, 4K cameras, and motion graphics are just some of the techniques we use to make the content you need.
Whether you are an organisation, a charity, a business, or even another university, Solent Productions can support your needs for creative screen content worth watching.
Solent Productions started in 2007 and combines the talents and expertise of Solent staff and students to generate creative concepts using the very latest technology.
Our specialisms include:
To find out more, contact Craig Lees:
Telephone: 023 8201 6331 / 07891 595912 Email: craig.lees@solent.ac.uk
Visit the Solent Productions website

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/solent-careers:
Finding the right talent for your organisation can be a challenge.
Solent Careers can help by linking you with Solent University students and graduates with the skills and enthusiasm to help your business grow.
One of the most effective ways of providing this service is by developing mutually beneficial relationships with employers and our academic schools.
Follow us on LinkedIn
Tell our students and graduates about the vacancies you have.
Advertise your paid and unpaid opportunities through Solent Careers Online.
Discover how you can work with Solent students - from placements or live briefs, to professional mentoring or volunteering.
Access a divers talent pool of affordable creative freelance assignments through our in-house creative agency, Solent Creatives.
Engage with our students through talks and guest lectures, or attend our annual placement and graduate fair.
We are accredited by, or a members of, a number of organisations.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/community/public-engagement:
Southampton Solent University is committed to public engagement and is proud to hold NCCPE Engage Watermark (Silver).
The Engage Watermark is an award granted to institutions to recognise their strategic support for public engagement and their commitment to improve the support offered.
Just as a watermark runs through the fabric of a document, an Engage Watermark indicates that engagement runs through the fabric of the institution.
In addition to holding the watermark Southampton Solent is a signatory of the NCCPE’s Manifesto for Public Engagement and adopts the NCCPE’s definition of Public Engagement:
Public engagement describes the myriad of ways in which the activity and benefits of higher education and research can be shared with the publics.
Engagement is a two-way process, involving interaction and listening, with the goal of generating mutual benefit.
Public engagement is in our DNA here at Solent, with a variety of projects currently active at the University across the four dimensions identified by the NCCPE.
Discover more about some of these initiatives below.
We are working with a range of partners and organisations in fulfilling our commitment to public engagement.
Staff - visit the Graduate School for further information on support available.
Students - visit student research resources for further information on support available.
Externals – click Collaborate at the top of your screen and speak with our relevant team to find out how you can get involved.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about:
Solent University is all about creating opportunities: for its students, for its staff, for its partners.
It offers expertise and experiences you couldn’t get anywhere else, opening doors and making introductions.
We’re focused on the practical side of higher education – giving our students the connections, experience and confidence to turn their newfound knowledge into a career with real, meaningful impact.
Whoever you are, whatever your goals, we want to help you make your mark.
Find out more about what we offer our students or follow the links below to explore our history, governance, campus and recent achievements.
We are dedicated to the pursuit of university education that enables learners from all backgrounds to become enterprising citizens and responsible leaders.
We are committed to promoting economic and social prosperity for the communities we serve.
Put simply - we want Solent graduates to be the passionate, creative professionals of the future, bringing expertise and energy into their communities and workplaces.
If you are a journalist or member of the media and would like to learn about any aspect of Southampton Solent University, including the work of Warsash Maritime School, or to speak to one of our academics, please contact our press office.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-governance-and-organisation:
Overseen by the Board of Governors and managed by Vice-Chancellor, Professor James Knowles, Solent University is organised into six academic departments, one school, and a range of supporting professional services.
The Board of Governors The Board of Governors determines the strategic direction of the University.
The Vice-Chancellor The Vice-Chancellor is the executive head of the University.
He is supported by the members of the Vice-Chancellor’s Group (VCG).
The Vice-Chancellor's Group The Vice-Chancellor's Group are responsible for the day-to-day running of the University.
To contact the Vice-Chancellor or any member of the Vice-Chancellor's Group, in the first instance please email the Vice-Chancellor's Office executive officer, Donna Allen by email: vco@solent.ac.uk .
The University is organised into departments and schools, and a range of professional services.
Our structure

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/mission-and-strategy/pledges-and-charters:
Solent University is proud to demonstrate our commitment to being future ready through being signatories of pledges and charters with key external partners.
Together, these define who we are and what we stand for.
Social Mobility Pledge, This is Purpose We are committed to growing the Social Mobility Pledge coalition, sharing best practice and playing a key role in closing the growing Covid-19 Opportunity Gap.
Find out more about our contextual offers scheme
C-19 Business Pledge, This is Purpose We are committed to being a force for good by making a commitment to doing what we can to tackle coronavirus (Covid-19), supporting the recovery and helping the world to rebuild over the medium to long term.
Manifesto for Public Engagement, National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) We are committed to contribute to society through our public engagement, sharing our knowledge, resources and skills with the public, and listening to and learning from the expertise and insight of the different communities with which we engage - benefiting staff, students and the public, and sharing what we learn about effective practice.
Find out more about our public engagement
Development of a Civic Agreement, UPP Foundation We are committed to creating a Civic University Agreement that will align our priorities with those of our local partners.
Alongside schools, further education colleges, local authorities, charities, the NHS, civil society and businesses, large and small, we want to make sure our place thrives in the coming decades.
Find out more about our civic agreement
Magna Charta Universitarium, Magna Charta Observatory We are committed to the principles of academic freedom and institutional autonomy as a guideline for good governance and self-understanding of universities.
Green City Charter, Southampton City Council We are committed to addressing some of the most challenging environmental issues facing Southampton to deliver far-reaching changes to the city environment.
Find out more about environment and sustainability at Solent
Fossil Free Declaration, People and Planet We are committed to remaining free of investments in fossil fuel.
City of Sanctuary Organisation Pledge
We support the ‘City of Sanctuary’ vision that the UK will be a welcoming place of safety for all and proud to offer sanctuary to people fleeing violence and persecution.
We will become a University of Sanctuary .
Find out more about our work to become a University of Sanctuary

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/working-at-solent:
As a modern and ambitious university, we think that the future is an exciting place.
We’re embracing new ideas, we’re creating opportunities and we’re responding to market changes quicker than most.
More than anything else, we're staying focused on our key purpose – developing grounded and enterprising students who, whatever their background, leave us with the skills and confidence employers are looking for.
If you aspire to take ownership of your career, and work somewhere with exciting and ambitious strategic plans for the future, where innovation is encouraged, teamwork is truly valued, and inclusivity lies at the heart of all you do, We Are Solent and you could be too.
The people who work here play an essential role in delivering our vision for the University.
We are committed to developing staff to their full potential, rewarding excellence and recognising the value that diversity and equality offer in producing a vibrant, inclusive and innovative learning community.
Think you might have something to offer?
Follow the link below to find out more about current opportunities here at Solent.
Alternatively, email recruitment@solent.ac.uk if you need help with an application.
Guidelines on DBS checks
Solent’s values and behaviours

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/environment-sustainability:
As a university, we have a vital role to play in promoting sustainability and social justice.
Through the University’s Strategic Plan 2020-2025, we're committed to making a substantive contribution to addressing the challenges presented by the climate and ecological crisis through our teaching, research, campus operations and engagement with students, staff and the wider community.
We take an institution-wide approach to sustainability.
Our Environmental Management System (EMS) brings together environmental and sustainability initiatives under one umbrella and has been certified to ISO14001:2015 standard and awarded EcoCampus Platinum in recognition of the work undertaken to manage environmental impacts and continually improve environmental performance.
We are a signatory of Southampton City Council’s Green City Charter and share a vision of a cleaner, greener, healthier and more sustainable city.
Through the actions we take as an institution we are helping to deliver their Green City Plan 2030 .
The University’s sustainability work is guided by Solent Sustainability Group, chaired by our Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research Academic Strategy Planning and comprising representatives from academic departments, professional services and the Students' Union.
The Group is responsible, on behalf of the Vice-Chancellor's Group (VCG), for providing strategic leadership and governance for embedding sustainability practices within the culture of the institution.
The current Environmental and Sustainability Enabling Plan sets measurable goals and outlines the actions needed to achieve those objectives up to 2025.
Solent Sustainability Group meets three times a year to check progress of the Enabling Plan and review policies including the Environmental Policy, Sustainable and Ethical Procurement Policy, and Sustainable Food Policy.
4th university in the UK for low carbon emissions
Between 2005 and 2020, Solent University made considerable progress in consolidating its physical estate and centring its teaching activities onto the main campus based in Southampton’s city centre.
In conjunction, investment in energy efficiency measures, including LED lighting, movement sensors, and optimised building management and control have all contributed to a reduction in overall emissions.
Our East Park Terrace (EPT) campus is connected to Southampton’s district energy scheme which provides hot water and heat to a variety of organisations within a 2km radius of the energy centre located near the central train station.
Solar photovoltaic panels are already installed on several buildings across our campuses with ongoing plans to increase coverage.
The Christopher Cockerell building on our EPT campus has undergone significant refurbishment in 2024/25 and will feature an extensive photovoltaic installation to its roof area.
The University has set an ambitious target to achieve net zero carbon emissions in scopes 1 and 2, those emissions generated through direct use of fuel and through purchased electricity, by the end of the 2035/36 academic year.
Our latest Carbon Management Plan (CMP), produced in partnership with AtkinsRealis, sets out a series of proposed interventions which, when implemented, will see Solent achieving this net zero across all scopes by 2050.
As well as improvements to our buildings, the CMP includes actions which aim to influence the behaviours of staff and students.
These actions will help to encourage greener and more sustainable choices which will contribute to reductions in our scope 3 emissions, including commuting, business travel, procurement activities and waste generation.
Refurbishment of our existing buildings provide further opportunities to lower carbon emissions and incorporate best sustainable practices in design and construction.
The University’s most recent developments, the Spark and Solent Sports Complex, both achieved a BREEAM Excellent rating.
We are also taking action to decarbonise our finances.
In April 2020, Solent’s Vice Chancellor signed the People & Planet Fossil Free Declaration after the University fully divested from fossil fuels.
We hold no investments in extractor fossil fuel companies and never will invest in these companies.
Solent is part of a waste and recycling contract with the universities of Southampton, Portsmouth, Bournemouth, Bournemouth Arts, Winchester and the South Hampshire College Group (SHCG) which is comprised of Southampton City College, Fareham College, and Eastleigh College.
We share collection services and focus efforts on waste reduction, resource management, reuse and recycling best practice.
The University collects recycling, general and food waste from across all campuses and student residences.
When students move out of their residence at the end of the academic year, unwanted but usable household items, kitchenware and clothing are donated to the British Heart Foundation.
The residences also support Southampton City Mission every year by donating surplus food collected from kitchens after students have moved out.
Recycling materials are sent to a material recovery facility where recyclable materials are separated.
General waste and any materials which cannot be recycled are sent to an energy from waste facility for energy recovery.
The Sowlent Community Garden is our allotment in the heart of the city, situated next to the Solent Sports Complex on East Park Terrace.
Our Students' Union 'Sowlent' Society currently has eight active student members.
Each member is allocated a plot within the garden where they can grow fruits, vegetables, and flowers.
They can enjoy the results of their labours by taking their produce home to cook and eat.
The society often holds events to introduce the garden to students not already actively involved.
A dedicated session will be held in the 2024/25 academic year during the Students' Union’s Give it a Go week, where students will be actively encouraged to try new activities.
The garden was also included as an option for the SU-led 2025 Volunteering Week.
The Garden is also a Living Lab, and used for student projects including monitoring growing conditions using remote sensing and a master's dissertation exploring the link between home grown produce and improved diet and nutrition.
The University is keen to ensure students and staff can travel to campus in a safe, active and sustainable way.
The East Park Terrace campus is located within the city centre which is served by a variety of public transport and micromobility options such as pay to hire e-scooters and e-bikes.
Details of travel options can be found here .
Secure cycle storage and changing facilities are available in the Sports Complex.
Various cycling initiatives are run by the My Journey Hampshire Network, including regular bike doctor events, a cycling network, journey planning and live travel information for all travel modes.
The University’s purchasing activities have a significant impact on the wider world.
Our Sustainable and Ethical Procurement Policy ensures that we are embedding responsible procurement practices, which create positive social, economic and environmental outcomes.
The University works closely with suppliers and contractors to reduce the negative impacts within supply chains and ensure contracts deliver social value.
During construction of the Solent Sports Complex, staff at lead contractor Morgan Sindall undertook voluntary work on community projects and delivered free lectures to Solent students.
In addition, 86% of Morgan Sindall’s project spend was with SMEs.
We're making space for nature across all our sites.
The University’s Biodiversity Action Plan , created in partnership with Hampshire and Isle of Wight Wildlife Trust, guides our work to protect, enhance and create new habitats for wildlife.
Our Ship Handling Centre at Timsbury Lake is a haven for protected species including otter, water vole, great crested newt and eight species of bat.
The site is medieval in origin and has a biodiverse mix of ponds, streams, woodland, aquatic marginal vegetation, scrub and shrub.
Over 30 species of ancient woodland plants have been recorded.
A conservation management plan is in place at Timsbury Lake, which was updated in 2024.
The plan outlines requirements to complete yearly monitoring of the different species and to maintain and enhance habitats and flora and fauna native to the area.
The native wildflower meadow at East Park Terrace, provides a pollen and nectar-rich habitat for a range of invertebrates and was awarded Highly Commended in the national Bees Needs Awards.
In autumn and winter, meadow areas left uncut create shelter for overwintering insects and a food source for our resident flock of goldfinches and other seed-eating birds.
Our contract partner, Sodexo Education Ltd provides the catering operation on campus, helping the University to deliver our environmental and ethical commitments.
Following the pandemic in 2020/21 Sodexo changed its catering offer to a cooked- to-order model.
This entails preparing and serving only meals which are pre-ordered and thereby reducing food waste by 70% from pre-Covid figures.
Sodexo supports students and staff to adopt positive eating habits by providing a full range of options to suit all dietary requirements that are good for health, wellbeing and the environment.
Sodexo has achieved various accreditations and accolades for its catering provision.
Sodexo uses only:
The University is Rainforest Alliance-certified, meaning relevant ingredients are sourced from Rainforest Alliance-certified farms and forests.
Drinking water refill points are located across campus as part of our commitment to reducing single-use plastics.
Click on the map and then on the tap icon for a description of where the refill point is located in the building.
The water point at Main Reception in Andrews Building is also a Refill station on the national Refill App .
Find out more about catering at Solent University and our certifications and awards here .
Read our Sustainable Food Policy here .
Through our courses and degree programmes, we are equipping our students with the skills and attributes needed to shape a positive future.
We want all Solent students to learn about sustainability and apply their learning when they graduate to make the world a better place.
Through education and research, the University contributes to progress against many of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) targets and we are aiming to achieve a top 33% placing in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings by 2025.
Solent is involved in and leading a range of innovative research projects into sustainability and environmental challenges.
Click here for more information about environment and sustainability at Solent University.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-history:
Solent has been a university since July 2005, but it has a long and complex educational history.
Incorporated as an independent higher education institution in 1989, the University's origins can be traced back to a private School of Art founded in 1855.
Mergers between Southampton College of Art, the College of Technology and the College of Nautical Studies at Warsash laid the foundations for what is now Solent University.
Since becoming a university, Solent has helped over fifty thousand students from all walks of life to make the most of their potential.
Guided by four Vice-Chancellors in turn, the University has changed dramatically over the past ten years – from campus improvements to the latest state-of-the-art facilities.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-facts-and-figures:
Find out more about our students.
How are they, where are they from and how many find employment after graduating?
This information is published annually and provides information about applications, offers and award completion.
View Solent University's transparency information
Source: Graduate Outcomes survey.
Graduates are surveyed 15 months after graduation
*The figures are full-time equivalents (FTE), ie, part-time and short course students are counted as less than one, on a pro-rata basis, at enrolment for 2021/22.
*Includes the unitary authorities of Hampshire, City of Southampton, City of Portsmouth and the Isle of Wight.
Find out more information on how Solent sets standards and awards degree outcomes.
Read the degree outcomes statement

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/contact-us:
Telephone: 023 8201 3000 Solent University, East Park Terrace, Southampton, SO14 0YN
Telephone: 023 8001 1722 Email: clearing@solent.ac.uk
Telephone: 023 8201 5066 Email: admissions@solent.ac.uk
Email: alumni@solent.ac.uk Benefits and support services can be found here .
Telephone: 023 8201 6002 Email: engagement@solent.ac.uk
Telephone: 023 8201 3222 Email: news@solent.ac.uk Press office View our experts directory
Telephone: 023 8201 3389 Web: www.solentsu.co.uk
General enquiries: 023 8201 3000
Short course enquiries and booking: 023 8001 3074 Email: wms.shortcoursesales@solent.ac.uk
Seniors course enquiries and booking: 023 8201 5066 Email: admissions@solent.ac.uk
Officer cadet enquiries: admissions@solent.ac.uk Warsash campus: Newtown Road, Warsash, Southampton SO31 9ZL St Mary's campus: St Mary's campus, Chapel Road, Southampton, SO14 5GL
For all other enquiries, please use the general enquiries line above.
You can also contact us on social media:
Twitter: @solentuni Facebook: solentuniversity
Monday to Friday: 7am-9pm Saturday and Sunday: Closed
Monday to Friday: 8.30am-10.30pm Saturday and Sunday: 9am-8pm
To view the library opening hours, please visit the library website .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/find-us:
Thinking of making a visit?
Solent University is located in the heart of Southampton city centre, within walking distance of Southampton Central train station.
Southampton is well connected with the rest of the UK, whether you plan to get here by car, train, aeroplane or ferry.
Southampton is just 75 miles (120km) from London, with excellent road links.
Southampton sits at the southern end of the M3 motorway.
Those who are travelling with a sat nav should use the postcode SO14 0YN.
Please note: East Park Terrace is closed to traffic from 6 September 2023 as part of Southampton City Council's sustainable transport corridor project .
While the University has limited on-campus parking, there are several car parks in the immediate vicinity.
View these on Google .
If you are a blue badge holder, please email us to receive guidance on applying for a permit.
There are over 200 free-to-use cycle spaces here on the main campus.
East Park Terrace pay-to-park scheme
The car parks (excluding the Solent Sports Complex) at our East Park Terrace campus are subject to a pay-to-park scheme through RingGo.
The scheme applies to non-permit holders from 8.30am (Car Parks C, D & F) or 10:00 (Car park B) to midnight, Monday to Friday, and all day at weekends and Bank Holidays.
Limited spaces are available and on a first come first served basis only.
Cashless payments can be made by the RingGo app, online, by telephone, or text.
More information can be found on the RingGo website .
Guidance is also provided on signage in the car park.
Please see local signage for restrictions.
Please note that parking is not available in Car Park B before 10:00 or in Car Park E at any time.
These are permit holder only zones and Parking Charge Notices will be issued for non-permit holders parking in these areas.
View the car parks on our campus map
Hours of operation and tariffs may vary throughout the Christmas period.
Alternative signage will be displayed to reflect these changes.
From London, we recommend travelling to Southampton from London Waterloo station .
For other locations, please use the National Rail journey planner .
The closest train station to us is Southampton Central Station .
It’s a 10-15 minute walk to Solent University from the station – follow the directions on Google maps .
If you exit via Platform 1, turn right, walk up the hilly footpath towards the Civic Centre building (large white stone building with clock tower).
Then follow Civic Centre Road and New Road straight on until you see the University ahead of you.
If you exit on Platform 4 , turn left, walk up the hill towards the Civic Centre building (large white stone building with clock tower).
From Heathrow Airport
By train : Take the Railair coach link from Heathrow Airport to Reading or Guildford train station.
Services to Southampton Central operate from both these stations.
The total journey time from Heathrow to Southampton is approximately two hours.
The Railair service runs every 30 minutes and picks up from all four terminals.
For more information on the service, please visit the South Western Railway website.
By coach : The National Express coach service operates from the bus station at Heathrow Airport to Southampton coach station.
On direct services the average journey time is 1 hours and 50 minutes.
Discount coach cards are available for students and young people.
For more information on services to Southampton and discount coach cards, visit www.nationalexpress.com .
From Gatwick Airport
By train : Train services operate between Gatwick Airport and Southampton Central.
the average journey time is 2 hours.
By coach : National Express coach services operate from Gatwick to Southampton coach station, via Heathrow (coach changeover).
The average journey time is 4 hours.
From London Stansted Airport
By train : Rail services operate from Stansted Airport to central London via the London Underground.
Direct services to Southampton operate from London Waterloo.
The average journey time is 3 hours and 30 minutes.
By coach : National Express coach services operate from the coach station at Stansted Airport to Southampton via Heathrow and central London (coach changeover).
From Southampton Airport
There are regular buses, trains and taxis from the airport to the centre of Southampton.
Buses and taxis are right outside the entrance, whilst the train station is located a couple of minutes walk away and is called Southampton Airport Parkway.
The airport is approximately four miles from Solent University and train services to the city centre run frequently with journey times of ten minutes.
Taxis are available from outside the terminal but need to be booked at the taxi desk inside the airport.
Directly outside the Spark you will find a number of bus stops servicing the local area.
The Uni-link U6 bus stops directly outside the University, as well as West Quay shopping centre, Portswood, the University of Southampton and Southampton General Hospital.
Other bus stops can be found on Above Bar Street.
More information about local bus travel can be found on the My Journey Southampton website.
My Journey Southampton
Red Funnel ferries provide a regular, fast and efficient service from Cowes on the Isle of Wight to Southampton Town Quay.
Red Funnel
If you would like information for local B&B / guest houses (for an overnight stay before or during your visit) please contact:
For details of hotels in the area please visit hotels.uk.com or bedandbreakfasts.co.uk .
Solent's locations in Southampton city centre
East Park Terrace campus map (with wheelchair access)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply/undergraduate-applications/parents-and-carers-clearing-guide:
Applying for university through Clearing can be a challenging time for your child - and for you.
We're here to not only support your child through their Clearing journey, but also to offer parents and carers advice and information to help you to support them too.
We've put together some answers to Clearing questions we're asked most often by parents, as well some general information about applying to university and what it's like to be a student at Southampton Solent University.
In short, Clearing is part of the UCAS application process and is there to help applicants find a place at university if they haven’t got any offers, they’ve declined all their offers, they didn’t meet the conditions of their offer, or they’ve changed their mind and want to apply for university late.
Your child may need to go through Clearing if they haven't received any offers from their chosen universities, if they didn't achieve the necessary grades for their conditional offers, or if they've changed their mind about their course or university choice.
Clearing is also an option if a student applies after the UCAS deadline of 30 June.
Making an application through Clearing can feel like a lot, but it’s actually very straightforward.
To start with, make sure they have their exam results to hand when they visit the websites of universities they are interested in, who will advise on how to make an application.
Many universities have a dedicated team of call-handlers to deal with Clearing applications and will be on hand to answer any queries; others take applications online or via email too – so it’s worth taking a look at the various options.
Not at all.
Many students use Clearing every year, for many reasons – they’ve decided to apply to university after the UCAS deadline, they didn’t get the grades they needed for their chosen course, or they’ve changed their mind about what course they want to study.
Clearing is there to help these students find their ideal course.
It doesn’t mean that the course they’re applying for is inferior, or that the institution is lower quality.
Most importantly, it doesn’t mean your young person has failed.
There are many opportunities to be found through Clearing – some of our students who have come to us through Clearing have said it’s the best thing that happened to them as they found their dream course!
Hear from Euan about his Clearing experience
Hear from Beth about her Clearing experience
On results day, applicants should have the following items to hand:
If their UCAS Track status is unsuccessful in their firm and insurance choices, they will automatically be placed in Clearing.
First, they should talk to their first choice or insurance university and see what advice they can give.
If they then need to start looking at other universities, they should take a moment to think about the available options - what they'd like to study and where.
Tell them not to panic and just take the first available course as there could be many other options out there.
We've put together a host of useful information about Clearing and how to apply through Clearing, especially if results received are not as expected.
Getting ready for results day
What happens on results day
Ultimate Clearing guide: Part 1
Ultimate Clearing guide: Part 2
If your child needs to speak to one of our Clearing team, they will need to make the call themselves, rather than a parent or carer.
Yes.
We are offering guaranteed accommodation for anyone applying to Solent University through Clearing.
To qualify for this, applicants must confirm their course place before 25 August 2025.
Take a look at accommodation options
Students should apply for finance as soon as possible and they do not need to have accepted a university place before applying.
If they've applied for finance and then reapply for a different course or university through Clearing, they will need to update their application for finance.
They can do this online and is very easy to do, they just need to sign into their student finance account and let The Student Loans Company know of the changes.
Read our guide about applying for student finance
As Solent is offering Clearing applicants guaranteed accommodation, our team will be in touch with more information about that.
You’ll also need to ensure your child has their funding in place (see the question above for guidance).
We also recommend visiting us, especially if you’ve not been to a Solent open day before.
We hold an open day specifically for those who have applied for and/or accepted a place at Solent through Clearing – this usually takes place on the Saturday immediately after results day.
Check our open days page for more information and to book your place.
Contact our dedicated Clearing team with any queries you may have prior to Clearing by SMS on 07860 023997 or email clearing@solent.ac.uk .
Our open days are the very best way to see what Solent can offer – a perfect opportunity to talk to our lecturers and meet current students, discover our facilities and explore our campus.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/southampton-solent-university-and-southampton-fc-extend-long-standing-partnership:
6 August 2025
Southampton Solent University and Southampton Football Club have renewed their long-standing partnership, reaffirming a shared commitment to education, sport, and community development across the region.
The new three-year agreement continues the close collaboration between the two organisations, with Solent University maintaining its role as the club’s Official University Partner and Official Back of Shirt Partner of Southampton FC Women's First Team .
The University will also continue to support a range of community initiatives delivered by the club.
In return, Saints’ will provide Solent students—and those from local further education providers—with valuable learning and placement opportunities across various departments of the club.
Students benefit from exclusive access to guest lectures by the club’s coaching and medical teams and gain real-world experience through unique placements in areas such as journalism, physiotherapy, and sports management.
Last month, Saints Men’s First Team utilised Solent’s cutting-edge sports science facilities at the East Park Terrace Campus to conduct medical assessments ahead of their pre-season training.
This hands-on use of the University’s resources reflects the deepening ties between the two institutions and the real-world opportunities available to Solent students.
Professor James Knowles, Vice-Chancellor of Southampton Solent University, said:
“We are proud to work alongside Southampton FC to enhance the educational journey of our students while supporting opportunities for the wider Southampton community through outreach and engagement.”
Southampton FC’s Chief Revenue Officer, Greg Baker commented: "Our partnership with Southampton Solent University is one of our longest standing, thanks to our shared ambitions to make a positive local impact, foster talent, and attract a diverse global audience.
"We're extremely grateful to have the support of such an influential organisation within our local community and we look forward to enjoying continued success."
The partnership, which has thrived for over a decade, has enabled Solent students to gain insight and experience across all levels of the club, from the Academy to the First Team.
The collaboration extends beyond placements, with Saints’ medical professionals regularly visiting Solent to deliver lectures and practical workshops.
Over the last academic year, Luke Thomas, First Team Physiotherapist, led a session on PARS fractures and lower limb rehab, while Sports Therapist Jack Curson presented on careers in professional sports therapy.
Solent’s creative students have also benefited from behind-the-scenes access at St Mary’s Stadium.
TV Production students shadowed the stadium’s public address operations, and Sports Journalism students participated in guided tours and Q&A sessions with the club’s media team, including a former Solent graduate now working with Saints.
Community outreach remains a key part of the partnership.
Since March, Saints Foundation’s Senior Saints initiative has made use of Solent’s Test Park facilities, while local schools and colleges have been welcomed to the stadium for tours and engagement activities designed to inspire the next generation.
The renewed partnership reflects Solent University’s ongoing commitment to its Civic Charter, launched earlier this year, and highlights the continued synergy between two of Southampton’s most recognisable institutions.
Tags:
Feature
General
Featured
Share article:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/clearing-offers-success-at-solent:
5 August 2025
Boasting the best National Student Survey (NSS) scores in Hampshire*, prospective students applying through Clearing can be confident of success at Southampton Solent University.
A-level results day can be both an exciting and worrying time, and Solent is ready to reassure anyone looking to kick-start their journey in higher education that Clearing is open and the team are on-hand to help.
Clearing is an accessible and alternative route to securing a place at university.
It's a great path for anyone who receives unexpected A-level results, decides to apply to university past the UCAS deadline, or hasn't been accepted to their first choice.
Deputy Head of UK Recruitment, Outreach and Events, Rhys Phillips, says:
"Exams are done, results day is around the corner and for many, this can be a time of reflection, realisation and, sometimes, a complete change of plan.
Whether it's a different course that's caught the interest, life throwing a curveball, or results that didn't quite match expectations, Clearing is here - and so are we.
"At Southampton Solent University, we know that no two journeys to university are the same.
Clearing isn't just about finding a last-minute option; it's about finding the right option - even if it's not the one someone originally had in mind.
"Each year, thousands of people across the UK take a new direction through Clearing.
It's a route that opens up opportunities and makes higher education more accessible to everyone.
Whatever the reason, Solent is here with advice, support, and a wide range of places still available across our courses.
We're here to listen, answer questions, and help find the right path."
Solent is a proudly accessible university, with graduates who came through Clearing now thriving in their chosen fields.
From the creative industries and law, to business and sport, Solent has a track record of equipping its students with the tools to succeed in whatever industry they choose.
BA (Hons) Sports Journalism graduate, Will Hewlett - who reported from the biggest golf tournament in the world during his second year, grained production experience at Glastonbury Festival, and is now preparing to be a host at The Hundred - says:
"My Clearing journey was easy and effective, and it certainly helped me go into my first day at university with confidence and clarity.
"My three years at university have turned out to be the best three years of my life.
My studies have directly influenced my life inside and away from university via amazing work experiences, the best lecturers, meeting lifetime friends and now, post-graduation, opening doors into the industry I want to pursue a career in.
"I have never heard or seen anyone at university feel that applying through Clearing had made them feel less as a student.
In fact, it can work positively for students as they joined later, worked hard, had fun and then look back at it with a smile on their face."
Clearing at Solent opened on Saturday 5 July and remains open until Monday 20 October.
Anyone wanting to explore Solent University's campus - which boasts industry-standard facilities - can book onto the Clearing open day on Saturday 16 August here.
To speak to a member of Solent's friendly Clearing team, call 023 8001 1722, reach them on WhatsApp via 07712 402 951, or use the University's social media channels and website.
*Southampton Solent University has been named the best university in Hampshire for learning opportunities, teaching on my course, assessment and feedback, and academic support in the 2025 National Student Survey.
General news

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/solent-appoints-new-associate-pro-vice-chancellor-research-and-knowledge-exchange:
25 July 2025
Southampton Solent University has appointed Professor Andy Chan as its new Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor - Research and Knowledge Exchange.
In this important role, Andy will oversee Solent University's research and knowledge exchange function.
He joins Solent from C London 2000, which serves the Scotland Qualification Authority (SQA).
Andy previously served as Executive Dean of Engineering at Robert Gordon University and as Vice Provost (Research and Knowledge Exchange) at the University of Nottingham Malaysia.
At Solent, Andy will work alongside Pro Vice-Chancellor - Research, Academic Strategy and Planning, Professor Cathy Barnes to shape the University's research and knowledge exchange strategy and community, driving impactful initiatives and identifying opportunities for growth.
On this appointment, which comes following the University's Strategy 2035 launch, Cathy says:
"As Solent looks towards the future, in which innovation plays a key part, it is essential that we have the right people informing our approach along the way.
With this in mind, we are delighted to welcome Andy to the University in such an important role, one which will influence our research portfolio and enhance our knowledge exchange strategy for continued impact."
A renowned expert on air pollution, as well as recycled carbon fibres and their applications, Andy's contributions to the pressing issues of today have had a global impact.
Andy is currently the leader of the multi-national 7SEAS-NASA project, which studies the propagation of haze in South East Asia.
He also serves as an expert consultant to the government on the development of urban planning guidelines against air pollution and extreme weather conditions.
During the 2003 SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) outbreak, Professor Chan was appointed team leader by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to discover the dispersion of mechanisms of the virus in the dense cityscapes of Hong Kong.
Cara Knoy, a BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduate, used her Final Major Project to raise awareness of a community close to her heart.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/southampton-solent-launches-civic-charter-with-council-backing:
17 July 2025 • by Solent press team
As it celebrates 20 years of university status, Southampton Solent University has today unveiled a new Civic Charter, backed by Southampton City Council, reinforcing its commitment to the city and wider region.
The Civic Charter has been developed as a key component of Solent’s new 2035 strategy, which sets out the university’s ambition to become the UK’s leading practice-led institution over the next decade.
At a Full Council meeting yesterday, Southampton City Council formally endorsed the Charter following a presentation by Professor James Knowles, Vice-Chancellor of Solent University.
“The Civic Charter marks a renewed and future-facing commitment to the city that is our home,” said Professor Knowles.
“It sets out how we will continue to build on our central location to drive innovation, support communities and champion industry in Southampton, and across the region.”
Solent has been working to grow its social and economic impact since the launch of its Civic Agreement in 2021.
During this time, the University has worked with a variety of organisations to grow and develop their employability and skills by launching numerous volunteering activities, establishing the South Coast Institute of Technology and continued investment in widening participation.
It’s helped enrich the region’s culture and health with initiatives that celebrate our diverse communities, including securing University of Sanctuary status, playing a pivotal role in Southampton’s bid to become UK City of Culture, and placing over 500 students within a range of NHS Trusts and Community partners.
The refreshed Charter outlines how the University will use its resources, expertise and partnerships to benefit the public in line with the University’s 2035 Strategy and Southampton 2035 City Plan.
From live student performances in local venues to business incubation, from free community law clinics to sports and wellbeing outreach, Solent is pledging to be a driving force in regional progress.
With the higher education landscape ever changing, Solent’s mission is to ensure everyone, no matter their age, background or career, can achieve their potential through tailored, lifelong learning which also meets the needs of communities, industries and the wider region.
The University’s strategy is seeking to advance intergenerational learning across the institution with the traditional 18-21 student demographic interacting with, and learning from, those with potentially varied skillsets and experiences and vice versa, supporting all to improve their knowledge and skills.
The new Leader of Southampton City Council, Councillor Alex Winning, said:
“Solent University is a key partner in the city , and we’re delighted to be building on our partnership with this pledge to drive economic growth and tackle social challenges in Southampton together.
We share a vision for Southampton as a city of opportunity that local people can take pride in, and that offers so much for people to live, work, study, visit and enjoy.”
As part of the launch, Solent University will be inviting businesses, educational institutions and civic partners to sign and support the Charter.
Find out more about our Civic Charter here.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/esu-2025-conference-and-doctoral-programme:
We're honoured to be hosting this exciting research event, which is supported by European Council for Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
The aim of ESU is to strengthen European research and networks in entrepreneurship by focusing both on academic sessions and on the culture and heritage that the host country and region have to offer.
ESU also provides a friendly environment for young scholars to interact and bond within the research community, and to learn important skills for their future careers.
At ESU, supervisors, researchers, and doctoral students from international institutions, active in entrepreneurship research and education, come together to share experiences and create new international networks, in a supportive environment.
Visit the ESU Network website
Dr Whysnianti Basuki
Dr Akash Puranik
Dr Richard Scullion
Dr Emmanuel Quansah
Mohamed Elmansy
If you have any questions, please contact us at esu.2025@solent.ac.uk .
We look forward to receiving your submissions and your attendance at ESU2025.
ESU 2025 is supported by the European Council for Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ECSB).
Each year, ESU awards prizes to the best articles in each group of the doctoral programme.
The winners of the best paper award (the first author of each article) receive a prize of a one-year ECSB membership which grants access to the network and the different initiatives it organises throughout the year, such as webinars, paper development workshops, and access to information on the main ECSB conferences.
Conference
Sat 29 November

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/apprenticeships-information-webinar-registered-nurse-nmc-2018-adult:
Join us to learn more about the Registered Nurse (NMC 2018) - Adult apprenticeship at Solent.
Southampton Solent University is offering an informative webinar information session about our Registered Nurse (NMC 2018) - Adult apprenticeship , designed to help prospective learners and employers interested in upskilling their staff understand the process.
These webinars are invaluable for employers, providing detailed insights into how apprenticeship courses can enhance employees’ skills and productivity.
Academics involved in the courses will participate in these sessions, offering their expertise to help both learners and employers understand the practical benefits and skill advancements that the course delivers.
Additionally, a member of the apprenticeships team will be available to answer any questions about how apprenticeships work, explain the application process, and address any queries related to funding.
Apprenticeships
Sport and fitness
Mon 20 October
Thu 25 September
Thu 23 October

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/apprenticeships-information-webinar-chartered-manager-fast-track:
Join us to learn more about the Chartered Manager (Fast-Track) apprenticeship at Solent.
Southampton Solent University is offering an informative webinar information session about our Chartered Manager (Fast-Track) apprenticeship, designed to help prospective learners and employers interested in upskilling their staff understand the process.
Business, marketing and finance

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/apprenticeships-information-webinar-social-worker:
Join us to learn more about the Social Worker apprenticeship at Solent.
Southampton Solent University is offering an informative webinar information session about our Social Worker apprenticeship, designed to help prospective learners and employers interested in upskilling their staff understand the process.
Psychology, sociology and education

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/term-dates:
Solent University splits the academic year into three terms: the autumn term, the spring term and the summer term.
First year students start the autumn term a week earlier than other students, giving them a chance to enjoy welcome week and settle into life here on campus.
To download the full 2025/26 academic calendar, please follow the link below:
Academic calendar 2025/26

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/virtual-tours:
Experience life as a student at Solent at one of our on-campus or virtual open days.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/a-z-directory:
Our courses at Solent University will help you to further your prospects and broaden your horizons.
The A-Z course directory provides you with a comprehensive list of all the courses we offer.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/academic-departments-and-schools:
Here at Southampton Solent University, we are committed to the success of our students.
Embracing new ideas, raising aspirations, and enhancing the career prospects of everyone who comes here to study is at the heart of everything we do.
Our academic departments and schools play an essential role in making this happen.
The departments and schools act as a driving force for improving the student experience.
Building stronger industry skills, offering students more opportunities to study abroad, and running a varied programme of courses are just some of the benefits this structure provides.
Follow the links below to see the latest news, browse courses, tour our facilities, or get in touch with academics.
The Department of Art and Music is a hub for creative collaboration.
Led by staff who are both industry and research led, emphasis on working with industry is embedded across every course so students can directly apply the theory in an interdisciplinary way that mirrors the ever-changing and growing UK creative sector.
Subject areas include illustration, fine art, photography, music and performance, interior design, graphics, and several fashion courses, including fashion design, fashion marketing and media creation, styling and photography, hair and make-up, and prosthetics and special effects.
Find courses
Meet the academics
Latest news
The Department of Business and Law offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and professional courses across subjects such as business management, accountancy and finance, law, strategic management, logistics, project management, and marketing, as well as higher degree apprenticeships.
Courses are led by staff who are both industry and research focused, and have working with industry embedded into the curriculum, so students/apprentices can directly apply the theory they are learning.
The Department has a vibrant community of staff and students from around the world which brings a rich depth of experiences and cultures that add to the curriculum to support lifelong learning.
The Solent Business School supports students to pursue specialist knowledge, equipping them for a fast-paced business landscape.
The School and its students are an integral part of business innovation in Southampton and has an extensive network of partnerships.
The Solent Law School is more than just learning theory - students are encouraged to interpret and apply it, understanding the legal processes and the fast-changing legal environment.
Students are taught by industry-leading academics in our excellent facilities, including the moot courtroom.
The Department of Social Sciences and Nursing offers subjects including criminology, psychology, sociology, nursing and social work.
Whether students are looking to study at foundation, undergraduate or postgraduate level, it is the Department’s mission to deliver an enterprising education that promotes inquisitiveness, influence, and curiosity.
The Department aims to bring together a socially, culturally, and intellectually diverse community, providing students with the skills, competencies, and mindset to ask the right questions and to make the most of everyday opportunities.
Find health and medical science courses
Find psychology, sociology and education courses
The Department of Science and Engineering consists of architecture and built environment, biomedical science, computing, and engineering.
The Department’s aim is to educate students in an innovative, rich, and interdisciplinary learning environment, collaborating with industry partners to offer students real-world problem-solving, work experience, applied research and business leadership opportunities.
The Department fosters a culture of independence and lifelong learning, preparing students to assume leadership positions locally, nationally, and globally.
The Department of Film and Media brings together subject areas spanning film and television, media, and digital arts to ensure our students can meet the demands of the creative and cultural industries as critically informed creative practitioners.
With sector-leading facilities that range from film, television, animation and media studios to a student-run Dolby Atmos Cinema, the Department is home to a state-of-the-art virtual production stage, multimedia newsroom and our own production company, Solent Productions.
Our Department of Sport and Health is home to a range of professionally accredited sports coaching, personal training, and sport science programmes.
The Warsash Maritime School is the home of seafarer training and maritime studies, building on the history and tradition of the world-renowned Warsash Maritime Academy.
The School also has a strong reputation in maritime research.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/press-office:
Welcome to Southampton Solent University’s media centre.
Here you can find details on how to contact our press office, find an expert for comment on a range of issues, and read our latest press releases.
Solent sits in the heart of Southampton, with fantastic access to Hampshire, the New Forest and the wider south coast of England.
The winner of three Teaching Excellence Framework Gold Awards, our University is forward thinking, helping students to succeed in the classroom and setting them up for the future.
Home to more than 8,000 students, we offer a range of professional development opportunities alongside our undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Please note our working hours are 8.30am to 5pm, Monday to Friday.
You can access a range of opinion pieces from our academic and professional services staff here .
These are free to republish and reference with the relevant credit for the author.
If you would like to request an original opinion piece, please contact the press office using the details above.
Solent is home to a large array of academics, specialising in everything from architecture to nursing.
We are also home to the world-leading Warsash Maritime School, which sees more than 8,000 delegates and students pass through its doors every year.
Our professional services staff are also specialists in their field, with significant experience in student recruitment, civic engagement and the issues facing higher education.
You can view our experts directory below.
Please contact the press office if you would like to arrange a media appearance or request a comment from any of our staff.
BSc (Hons), PGCE, MCIOB
Course Leader
Expertise: construction management, reedbed management.
Research: management and use of reedbeds within the UK.
BArch, MSc, PhD, PGCAP, FHEA, MCIAT, BREEAM AP
Expertise: sustainable architectural design, maximising building efficiency through design, life-cycle assessment of buildings and energy performance.
Research: CO2 reduction, low and zero carbon buildings, human centred architecture.
Head of the Department of Science and Engineering
Expertise: impact of social, economic and political factors on the development of housing standards in the UK.
Research: widening access to higher education and embedding professional practice in the curriculum.
FHEA
Associate Professor of Photography and Visual Arts, and Strategic Lead for Research
Expertise: photography, contemporary art, visual culture
Research: landscape, modernity, cultural history, and the image of landscape in the locale of Kurt Schwitters’ Merz constructions in England and Norway.
Associate Professor
Expertise: Entrepreneurship, female entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship in education.
Research:  Female entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship education, strategy in small and medium-sized companies.
Expertise: Magazines, social media, marketing, slow journalism, celebrity, fashion and beauty media/promotion.
Research: Building student communities; real world learning, and students as co-creators.
PhD, BBA, MBA, PGCE, MRES
Senior Lecturer
Expertise: Organisational strategy, organisational collaborations, structuration theory, managing people, leadership practices.
Research: Informal organising, strategy in practice, collaborative work, and research methodologies.
Course Leader and Portfolio Lead
Expertise: economics, accounting, finance and banking, marketing, regional and social inequalities.
Research: economics and econometrics (modelling), inclusive economic growth, financial innovation and financial geography, income and earnings distribution, regional economic resilience, social inequalities, circular economy.
PhD, MA, DipM, PGCLTHE, MCIM, FIDM, MIDM, AFHEA
Expertise: semiotic analysis, storytelling and narratives in business and politics, the history of Ordnance Survey.
Research: strategy and business planning, semiotic anthropology, knowledge management.
MA, SFHEA
Senior Lecturer Re:So
Expertise: retailing, second-hand fashion, creative SMEs, entrepreneurship.
Research: retail histories in the 20 th and 21 st centuries.
DProf
Module Leader
Expertise: User experience/interface design, human computer interaction, augmented reality/virtual reality, mixed reality, interactive and immersive webinar design, educational use of AI.
Research: Immersive webinar design using augmented reality, computer simulations for learning and assessment, professional social networked learning models and technology.
Expertise: computer games and virtual reality, health and wellbeing games, videogame theory.
Research: mixed realities, games, health and wellbeing.
Expertise: science and engineering, electronic engineering and automation systems, computer science, computing applications in manufacturing, automation and industry, embedded systems programming.
Research: non-destructive testing, numerical modelling of multi-physics systems, industrial system solutions and development, implementation and testing, application of artificial intelligence.
PhD
PVC Research, Academic Strategy and Planning
Expertise: mechanical engineering, CAD systems development.
Research: design of tactile products and surfaces, innovation process and adoption, packaging and product design.
consumer behaviour and retail analysis.
PGCert, CEng, MIET, FHEA
Expertise: Mechatronics, embedded systems e.g.
microcontrollers/Arduino, Raspberry Pi, FPGA, home automation.
Research: Smart homes (Residential), intelligent sensor systems, Internet of Things (IoT), MCDMA.
Lecturer
Expertise: wireless systems, electronic circuits, data and computer networks, solar systems, energy storage and energy recovery systems, decolonisation and equality in higher education.
Research: cellular networks including radio planning and system optimisation, management of heterogeneous networks, MIMO, and network architecture.
MA, PGCLTHE, BSocSc (Hons), SFHEA
Expertise: luxury fashion, fashion buying and merchandising, luxury brands, UK Fashion market.
Associate Professor of Screen Histories
Expertise: Film and TV history, the work of Agatha Christie.
Research: Archival research into the development of Agatha Christie’s career and the impact of her work.
PhD, FHEA
Expertise: Visual communication, production, postproduction, video editing.
Research: Egyptian animated TV and its effect on Egyptian children's social values, social media studies.
Expertise: Technical media, broadcast, acoustics, audio engineering, computing.
Research: Acoustics.
BA, MA, PhD, SFHEA
Expertise: film, television, trauma, time, grief, gender.
Research: contemporary film theory and practice, media and cultural theory, film history, the work of Christopher Nolan, gender representation in film and television.
Expertise: Television, documentary filmmaking, real-world learning, creative industries.
MA, PhD, PGCLTHE, NTF
Associate Professor of Performance, Sex and Gender
Expertise: sex on screen, representations of sexual violence, masculinity and gender in contemporary film, TV and culture, acting and performance.
Research: British Academy-funded project 'Screening Sexual Violence', short film as a tool for activism and awareness-raising, female filmmakers, gender-based violence, #MeToo.
Expertise: sports feature films, the work of Philip K.
Dick, television sitcoms, documentary film, television and film production, advertisement production.
Research: sports and baseball films.
PhD, SFHEA
Expertise: Hollywood, British, and Australian films, television, media practice, gender, and the representation of intersex people.
Research: Intersection of media, society and storytelling alongside underrepresented narratives.
PhD, FHEA, MA, BA
Expertise: Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), documentary film, LGBTQIA+ cinema.
Research: Equity, diversity and inclusion in the MCU, identity representation in film and TV, performance and performativity, sex in documentary film, Global LGBTQIA+ cinema.
Expertise: microbiology, virology, immunology, antibiotic resistance.
Research: respiratory viral infections, pathogen interactions in the lung, MRSA, microbiome dynamics.
Expertise: biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology.
Research: micro RNAs as biomarkers for difficult-to-diagnose diseases (allergy and asthma), novel biomarkers for lung disease, novel interventions for difficult-to-treat diseases (asthma and lung cancer).
LLB, LLM, SFHEA
Academic Registrar
Expertise: university governance, quality assurance, commercial law - e-commerce, data protection.
CEng, MRINA, SFHEA
Expertise: naval architecture, yacht and superyacht design, commercial vessel design, electric hydro-foiling vessels.
Research: developing an electric hydro-foiling passenger craft, high performance sailing craft.
MSc, MBA, PGCE, SFHEA, FNI, FRIN
Associate Professor, Maritime Simulation and Autonomy
Expertise: maritime operations, pedagogy and simulation, ship handling, autonomous shipping.
Research: marine autonomous systems, sea traffic management, maritime simulators, modern navigational equipment.
Expertise: architecture and marine engineering.
Research: hybrid propulsion and hull resistance to reduce the environmental impact of shipping, renewable composite material and their application in the marine industry.
Expertise: seafarer occupational health and safety, organisation of work and employment.
Research: seafarer safety, inequalities among seafarer workforce.
SFFEA, FCILT
Expertise: shipping operations and supply chain, salvage law and practice.
Research: ship salvage, commercial law and practice, maritime law.
BTech, Marine ETO, MSc, AFHEA
Expertise: marine electricals and electronic engineering, instrumentation and control systems, modelling and simulation of electrical control systems.
Research: AI for autonomous control systems, marine decarbonisation.
BSc (Hons), MSc, PhD, FHEA
Associate Professor of Marine Sustainability
Expertise: low-carbon shipping, sustainable marine fuels, vessel efficiency, and life cycle assessment.
Research: energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions, the impact of future fuels on the sustainability of the maritime sector.
PhD, MBA, BSc, FHEA
Expertise: Music festivals, live music, music business.
Research: Cultural economy, history and heritage; and the future of music industries.
Expertise: Sound design, popular music, film sound.
Research: Music, sound.
FHEA, FRSA
Expertise: music business, music education and arts funding.
Research: music business, music education, arts funding, music management and copyright.
BA (Hons), NCDT Drama UK, FHEA
Expertise: theatre, directing, producing, acting technique, voice and vocal coaching, singing, community participation, co-creation, collaboration.
Research: applied theatre, community voice, audiences, directing.
Chief Marketing Officer (PVC)
Expertise: marketing and communications, PR strategies, partnerships (national and international), university strategy, internationalisation, civic engagement.
Pro Vice-Chancellor Students and Governance
Expertise: student experience, corporate governance, regulation and administration of higher education, higher education.
Chief People and Culture Officer
Expertise: wellbeing, equality, diversity and inclusion, reward and recognition, organisational development, trade unions.
PhD, MBA, SFHEA
Pro Vice-Chancellor Education
Expertise: future thinking of education, media and technology, immersive media, emerging forms of technology, virtual reality.
Research: understanding narrative forms of virtual reality, application of new technologies in education.
Chief Financial and Operating Officer (PVC)
Expertise: corporate finance, endowment management, investments, pensions, strategy and innovation.
Bsc (Hons) PGDIP AFHEA
Student Employability and Opportunities Manager
Expertise: employment, careers, recruitment, graduate jobs.
BEng (Hons), PgCLT (HE), SFHEA, AMRINA
Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor (Education and Partnerships)
Expertise: naval architecture, ship and small craft design, hydrodynamics, maritime simulation and sailing.
Research: small craft hydrodynamics, hydrofoils, wind assisted propulsion in ships.
FAHEP
Director of Student Success
Expertise: Student support, including mental health and wellbeing, cost-of-living and student safety.
Research: Student participation/attendance; student retention, with a focus on wellbeing and impact of the cost-of-living crisis; lived experience of underrepresented student groups, in particular students of colour.
University Librarian
Expertise: library services, the role of libraries in access and participation, care experienced people in higher education, data-driven decisions, non-academic teaching in higher education.
Head of Learning and Teaching
Expertise: teaching and learning support, evaluating course performances and metrics, innovation in learning and teaching, community building in HE.
Research: Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL), human problem solving and decision making, design thinking and prototyping in HE.
PhD, CPsychol
Expertise: psychology of elite sport, applied sport psychology, stress and sport performance.
Research: regulation of stress and emotion.
BSc (Hons), MSc, PhD, CPsychol, AFBPSS, FHEA
Associate Professor of Applied Psychology
Expertise : mental health and wellbeing of veterans,  the role of archaeology and cultural heritage to support mental health and wellbeing, positive ageing - including life story work and reminiscence, and peer support.
Research: UKRI-MARCH Network AMPHORA Project - supporting safe practice and evaluation in the heritage for wellbeing sector, the impact of archaeology on veterans' mental health and wellbeing, and the role of peer support for older veterans.
FHEA, MSc, BA (Hons)
Expertise: performance psychology in football and golf, attributions, motivation, social identity.
Research: attribution retraining in sport.
PhD, MPhil, BA (Hons), PGCE, SFHEA, MBASW
Associate Head, Department of Social Sciences and Nursing, and Course Leader
Expertise: working with vulnerable adults in mental health, medical social work, regional HIV services.
Research: qualitative research, social work, education, teaching, gender, human development and the life course.
BSc (Hons), MSc, PhD, CPsychol, AFHEA
Expertise: mental health among marginalised communities including refugees and asylum seekers, athlete mental health.
Research: the experiences of women athletes in male-dominated sports, human rights violations in sport.
COS, MSc, PGC LTHEA, SFHEA
Expertise: advanced interviewing of child abuse suspects and victims, inter-familial child homicide in Cambodia.
Research: forensic behavioural psychology.
BA, MSc, PhD, SFHEA
Associate Professor of Sociology
Expertise: LGBT inclusion in sport, sports media representation, anti-discrimination policy, head trauma in sport, sport and sexuality, sports fandom, sport and gender.
Research: gender and sexuality, masculinities, non-exclusive sexualities, sports policy.
PhD, PGCE, SFHEA
Expertise: rugby, physiology, endurance training, strength and conditioning, eccentric training, altitude training, heat training, blood flow restriction.
Research: rugby union, post activation potentiation, blood flow restriction, eccentric training, technology (GPS, force plates).
Head of the Department of Sport and Health
Expertise: child development, sports coaching, leadership and management in education, pedagogic practice.
Research: child development within the classroom including, individual, personalised and lifelong learning.
Expertise: lower limb biomechanical investigation in sport and health.
Research: injury identification and mitigation in active populations.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/solent-university-celebrates-gold-awards-in-the-teaching-excellence-framework:
28 September 2023
Solent University, Southampton has been awarded three Gold ratings in the new Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF), recognising that our student experience and student outcomes are typically outstanding.
The TEF is a national scheme run by the Office for Students (OfS) that aims to encourage higher education providers to deliver excellence in the areas students care about the most: teaching, learning, and achieving positive outcomes from their studies.
Providers that take part in the TEF receive an overall rating as well as two underpinning ratings – one for the student experience and one for student outcomes.
Solent was awarded gold for all three, with the awards lasting for four years.
Vice-Chancellor, Professor James Knowles says, “We are delighted with this recognition of our teaching excellence, student experience and student outcomes here at Solent.
“This is a high-profile endorsement of our ‘real-world’ approach, and of the work we do with each student to tailor our approach to meet their needs, and to support them to achieve their goals - so we are pleased to see these highlighted in the assessing panel's report.
“There is no doubt that the TEF has raised the bar on teaching, learning and student experience across the sector, and I am particularly proud that we now belong to a small group of universities who have gained the ‘triple Gold’.”
The ratings reflect the extent to which a provider delivers an excellent experience and outcomes for its mix of undergraduate students and across the range of its undergraduate courses and subjects.
The TEF panel also praised Solent's student submission, put together with the support of the University's Students' Union, which described our students as 'devoted, curious and aspiring individuals with the goal of changing their lives through advanced opportunities and experiences’.
The TEF panel that reviewed Solent highlighted the following achievements in the University’s provision:
Winston Alla, Solent Students' Union President, says: " On behalf of Solent Students’ Union, I want to congratulate Solent University on receiving the triple Gold Award for their Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) submission.
"As Union President, I was honoured to assist the University with their student submission, which represents the voice of all students here at Solent.
"As a Students’ Union, it is our job to be the voice for the students and ensure their views are represented at the highest possible level.
"Solent University, Solent Students’ Union and our students strive to continuously improve the student experience for current and future students, and this has been reflected in the result the university has received.
"We know there is more work to be done, both for the Students’ Union and the University.
As your Students’ Union, we will continue to work together to improve the student experience for the better, which our members deserve."

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/disclaimer:
Every effort is made to ensure that the information given on the Solent University's website is correct at the time of publication and that the course information given accurately describes the courses offered by the University.
However, from time to time details do change meaning that certain information may not always be entirely accurate if it is waiting to be updated on the website.
You should contact the University to verify any information, especially if you wish to place particular reliance upon it.
If prospective students are particularly concerned about the detailed elements of a course being offered, they should contact the admission details listed for the course to check the course content prior to acceptance of an offer of a place.
All reasonable steps will be taken by the University to provide educational services and to minimise any disruption to those services.
However, the University reserves the right to postpone, relocate, restructure, withdraw or cancel any teaching sessions or examinations, any course or particular options, modules, units or specialisms within a course, due to the occurrence of any event or circumstance beyond its reasonable control (including, but not limited to, industrial action, whether on the part of the University’s staff or otherwise, shortage of staff, unavailability of facilities or insufficient student numbers).
The links to third party external sites are provided for the convenience of our site visitors only.
Solent University is not responsible for the content of these external sites and does not necessarily endorse the views or agree with the information held on these sites.
All material on the Solent University's website, this includes text, layout, graphics, icons and artwork is Copyright © Solent University, unless otherwise stated.
This material cannot be copied in any way, except insofar as required for the viewing of pages on an individual PC, without permission from Solent University.
Please contact web.support@solent.ac.uk if you need further information regarding the use of materials on this site.
All trade marks mentioned on this site remain the property of their respective owners and are used for identification purposes only.
Solent University makes no claims, either expressed or implied, as to trade mark ownership of these marks.
Email transmissions are confidential and may be legally privileged.
If you receive an email from Solent University and you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender by return email and delete the message from your system.
Solent University reserves the right to monitor email communication through its network.
No contract may be concluded on behalf of Solent University by email.
If the content of this email does not relate to the business of Solent University, then we do not endorse it and will accept no liability.
Every effort is made to ensure that content on the Solent University website does not infringe any person's rights, or applicable UK laws.
Should you discover any content you believe to contravene copyright, permissions or licensing restrictions, be offensive in its nature, or illegal in some aspect, please contact external.relations@solent.ac.uk with the following information:
A representative of Solent University will respond by email within 28 working days of receipt of the complaint to confirm the removal of the content following internal investigation.
Should the University feel the content should not be removed from the website, a full written explanation with evidence will be provided.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/disclaimer/privacy-policy:
Solent University recognises the importance of protecting your personal data.
The pages within this section outline how we use and safeguard your data.
Solent University's website does not capture or store personal information, except where you voluntarily choose to provide your personal details (for example on one of our forms).
Where you provide Solent University with your personal details via the Internet, we will not pass this information to any other organisations or individuals without your consent.
Our web server automatically collects standard information, including your IP address, browser type, operating system and access times.
For information on cookies and how we use them, please visit our cookies page .
This privacy policy only governs Solent University's website at solent.ac.uk.
Other websites that are linked to these pages are not covered by this policy.
This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc.
('Google').
Google Analytics uses 'cookies', which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyse how users use the site.
The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.
Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage.
Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf.
Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google.
You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website.
By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.
Any personal data collected through this website, on forms for example, will only be used for the purpose stated on the relevant page.
We use Microsoft Clarity to capture how you use and interact with our website through behavioural metrics, heatmaps, and session replay to improve and market our products/services.
Website usage data is captured using first and third-party cookies and other tracking technologies to determine the popularity of products/services and online activity.
Additionally, we use this information for site optimisation and advertising purposes.
For more information about how Microsoft collects and uses your data, visit the Microsoft Privacy Statement .
We monitor activity throughout our website using a third-party provider ( Mediahawk ) to improve our Digital Marketing using a Cookie (See Cookie Policy).
We track which sources are effective at helping visitors find our website and make calls to us.
We use IP addresses, geo-location data, caller telephone number, and voice recordings.
Mediahawk processes the following four pieces of data that are defined as “Personal”:
In the example below, we have used 01908 000000.
The University, as a registered Data Controller, has an obligation to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation and other data protection law and our approach to data collection and processing is set out in our privacy notices.
We use live chat software on our website, this is provided by Click4Assistance, a 3rd party UK based Software Company.
Information regarding how the data is processed and stored can be viewed here.
We have privacy notices that help you to understand how we gather, store and use your data, based on your interactions with the Solent University:
Alumni privacy notice
Employers' privacy notice
Prospective students and applicants privacy notice
Privacy notice for schools and college contacts
Access and widening participation privacy notice
Student surveys privacy notice
Our website may contain links to other websites of interest.
However, once you have used these links to leave our site, you should note that we do not have any control over that other website.
Therefore, we cannot be responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you provide whilst visiting such sites and such sites are not governed by this privacy statement.
You should exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question.
Last updated: 19 July 2023

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/disclaimer/cookies:
When you visit most websites, a cookie stores information in a text file in your browser.
The website can then refer back to this information to help provide a better experience when using the website.
Cookies are often used to improve your browsing experience.
In most cases, they just store a number that has been allocated to your browsing session.
When you are accessing areas that require you to log in this allows you to move from page to page without having to log in repeatedly.
We also use cookies to support advertising campaigns, testing and analytical information.
They are not dangerous to your computer in any way, they are not executable programmes, viruses or code and cannot read information that exists on your computer.
Session cookies only exist until you close your browser and end the current browsing session.
Session cookies are never written on the hard drive.
Permanent cookies (also called persistent or stored cookies) store a text file on your computer so if you visit the same website again it recognises you and remembers your preferences.
Advertising cookies let us make advertising more engaging for our users using third-party vendors.
Some common applications of cookies are to select advertising based on what’s relevant to a user.
To do this we base the advertising on the information that the user has viewed on the Solent website.
They also help with reporting the performance of our advertising and to avoid showing adverts that the user has already seen.
Retargeting cookies allow us to advertise to visitors to our websites via third-party vendors.
Third-party vendors will show our adverts on sites across the internet and use cookies to serve adverts based on past visits to our websites.
You can see the cookies we use for advertising and retargeting in the list below.
If you wish to opt out of a third-party vendor's use of cookies for interest-based advertising visit www.youronlinechoices.com .
To make your experience on the website more enriched we embed video and audio content from websites such as Vimeo, YouTube and SoundCloud.
As a result, when you visit a page with content embedded from these websites you may be presented with cookies from these websites.
We use third-party cookies to help us better understand the visitors to our website, for example, we use a call tracking cookie to help us understand what has driven a user to call us.
This can help us to improve our website by providing richer information.
We also use third party software under sub-domains of solent.ac.uk.
For example, our careers site is provided by a third party (Hireserve) that specialises in job sites.
This allows us to provide users with a better experience but it will also mean that the software will make use of cookies.
Please see the websites' individual cookie policies for more information (we have provided links where possible).
We have compiled a list of cookies that may be used when you visit the solent.ac.uk website.
The cookies that you receive will depend on your activity around the site and how you arrived at the site.
While we have made every attempt to create a comprehensive list of cookies, there may be some that we have not listed.
If you have any concerns about the cookies that we use, please contact us .
cb-enabled
notify-message-[:id]
site-alert-[:id]
This allows us to determine whether or not the user has agreed to our cookie policy upon entering the website for the first time.
This cookie will ensure the cookie bar is closed for all future sessions once the user has closed it for the first time.
This cookie records a user's decision to close the feedback tool on the maritime.solent.ac.uk website.
If the user closes the tool it will not show again for 14 days.
This cookie records the open state of the site alert.
It will expire after 7 days.
Hireserve
Please see Hireserve's privacy page for more information
Google, Inc.
(including google.com, google.co.uk, .gstatic)
Please see Google's privacy and cookies pages for more information.
Facebook, Inc.
Please see Facebook's privacy and cookies pages for more information.
YouTube
Please see YouTube's privacy and cookies pages for more information.
Twitter
Please see Twitter's privacy and cookies pages or more information.
DoubleClick (part of Google Inc)
Please see DoubleClick's privacy and cookies pages for more information.
ResponseTap
Please see ResponseTap's privacy and cookies pages for more information.
Programmatic advertising partners
Hotjar
_hjClosedSurveyInvites (365 days)
_hjDonePolls (365 days)
_hjMinimizedPolls (365 days)
_hjShownFeedbackMessage (365 days)
_hjid (365 days)
_hjRecordingLastActivity (Session)
_hjTLDTest (Session)
_hjUserAttributesHash (Session)
_hjCachedUserAttributes (Session)
_hjLocalStorageTest (Under 100ms)
_hjIncludedInPageviewSample (30 minutes)
_hjIncludedInSessionSample (30 minutes)
_hjAbsoluteSessionInProgress (30 minutes)
You can prevent the setting of cookies by adjusting the settings on your browser (see your browser Help for how to do this).
Be aware that disabling cookies will affect the functionality of this and many other websites that you visit.
Disabling cookies will usually result in also disabling certain functionality and features of a website.
Therefore it is recommended that you do not disable cookies.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/disclaimer/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to the Solent University website: https://www.solent.ac.uk .
This website is run by Solent University.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
We welcome your feedback on the accessibility of the Solent University website.
Please let us know if you encounter accessibility barriers on the website.
If you would like to request information on this website in a different format:
We try to respond to feedback within three working days.
We're always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please contact the Digital Platforms team: web.support@solent.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Solent University is committed to making its websites accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard due to the the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Our site contains many PDF, Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents that have been created across many different departments in the University and uploaded to the website.
We do not intend to audit and fix document accessibility issues as this would be a disproportionate burden.
Our site contains many PDFs been created from our printed marketing material.
Many of these documents have lots of pages and we do not create an accessible version of each document as this would be a disproportionate burden.
Our site contains many news articles that have been created by multiple editors over many years.
News articles are rarely updated once published but do remain on the site as an archive of information.
We do not run an accessibility check on each news article.
Our site contains pages with event details that are created by many editors from around the University.
We do not immediately remove historic events from the website once the event date has passed and therefore there can be many event pages on the site.
We do not run an accessibility check on each event page.
Our site may contain historic videos that were published before 23 September 2020.
While most of our videos embedded across the website will have been replaced with new accessible versions, there are still some instances of old videos that are publicly available.
PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 (if they’re not essential to providing our services) as they are exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations 4.2 (a) .
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations 4.2 (c) .
We do not plan to add captions or transcripts for pre-recorded audio and video published before 23 September 2020 as they are exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations 4.2 (b) .
We may occasionally publish or embed content created by third-parties (that is neither funded nor developed by Solent University) that is not fully accessible.
This content is deemed exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations - 4.2 (e) .
The Digital Platforms team are committed to providing an accessible experience.
As such, we have built many checks into different phases of our team processes:
Following these processes ensures that we are considering accessibility at multiple points during the development and publishing of new content across the website.
We also utilise an automated accessibility testing tool called Site Improve to monitor our sites accessibility health on a monthly basis.
In August 2022, an independent audit of this website will also take place by the Digital Accessibility Centre.
This statement was prepared on 9 November 2020.
It was last reviewed on 16 June 2022.
Between May and June 2022, we completed a full accessibility audit of the www.solent.ac.uk website.
The full details of the audit can be viewed here .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-facts-and-figures/office-for-students-transparency-information:
The information published on this page shows:
It shows these numbers by reference to:
Table 1a: Percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristic for 2021-22 qualifiers
Key: EIMD: English Indices of Multiple Deprivation
Solent University 2023 transparency information

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/accountancy-and-finance-bsc/2025/bsc-hons-accountancy-and-finance-3-years-2025:
Enter the fast-paced world of international finance with this professionally accredited degree, working with global companies to gain the skills and real-world work experience you’ll need for success.
Throughout this industry-focused degree you'll engage with specific areas of finance that interest you and explore both national and international markets to gain a firm understanding of the global economy.
You'll also have access to our Bloomberg suite, which delivers real-time business and market news, data, and analysis to the world's leading industries and companies to support critical financial and strategic decision making.
Use of the Bloomberg suite is embedded into the curriculum, meaning you'll be at the cutting edge of financial analysis and skills development to help further boost your employability prospects.
You'll also be encouraged to put theory into practice by working on real-life business scenarios, with opportunities to co-design and project-manage a series of business events to build networking skills, meet employers, and discuss key business topics, such as diversity and inclusion, digital transformation and the future of the business landscape, and leadership.
Solent's accountancy and finance degree has strong connections with industry and is accredited by a number of professional bodies.
The course content is designed and reviewed in collaboration with industry experts.
Our Business Advisory Board , chaired by Pete Markey, Chief Marketing Officer at Boots, is made up of senior leaders across a variety of industries who help to inform our curriculum development, student success, and business development.
Solent University is a place of study for students from all over the world.
Learning with students from different backgrounds, you'll explore new points of view in contemporary discussions and debates, and get a feel for the international workplace.
Accredited by and with exemptions available:
As this degree is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), students may be exempt from some modules when studying for the professional qualification after graduating.
As this degree is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, students may be exempt from some modules when studying for the professional qualification after graduating.
As this degree is accredited by ICAEW, students may be exempt from some modules when studying for the professional chartered accountant (ACA) qualification after graduating.
As this degree is accredited by the Institute of Financial Accountants (IFA), students may be exempt from some requirements when applying for membership of the IFA.
As this degree is accredited by the Association of International Accountants (AIA), students may be exempt from some modules when studying for the AIA professional qualification after graduating.
Contact UK admissions
Contact international admissions
This course offers additional qualifications for you to obtain with your degree
If you're not quite ready for a full undergraduate degree, there's alternative entry through one of our foundation years
After successfully completing your studies, there's an opportunity to continue your studies at Solent
If you apply for this course with a placement year, you have the opportunity to undertake a year in industry between your second and third years
If you have an appropriate Level 5 qualification, you can top it up to a degree in just a year
You have the opportunity to study abroad in one of our partner universities for a semester on this course
This course is ideal for anyone who is hoping to pursue a career in the wide range of jobs related to accountancy and finance sector which is a huge industry area.
Our graduates go on to become accountants, auditors, tax specialists, financial analysts, fund managers, business advisers and entrepreneurs.
Recent graduates have found roles at Deloitte, Smith and Williamson, Estee Lauder and John Lewis, among others.
Hear from Solent alumni about where their careers have taken them and how studying at Solent prepared them for their future.
Group Accountant
Teaching staff for the BSc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance degree have experience of working in accountancy and finance in practice or in industry as practitioners and/or are actively engaged with current research within accountancy, finance and economics.
The University cannot guarantee any particular members of staff will teach specific aspects of the course in the future, but will endeavour to ensure the teaching team maintains their balance of experience and qualifications.
Our vibrant campus brings state-of-the-art facilities to enhance your learning and elevate your student experience.
Our award-winning teaching building, The Spark is centred around students and offers a stimulating study environment with flexible learning spaces.
Away from studying, why not try out the gyms, fitness studios and sports halls in our £28 million Sports Complex, or watch a blockbuster film at our student-run cinema with Dolby Atmos audio.
Broaden your horizons by adding an international dimension to your CV – essential to achieving success in today’s fast-changing, global environment.
Studying, working or volunteering in another country could be the experience of a lifetime.
Enhance your degree by developing important global skills such as knowledge of other countries, language skills, intercultural awareness, adaptability and confidence.
For more information, please email international.mobility@solent.ac.uk .
Lay strong foundations for study and employment success.
Build your academic, employability and independent learning skills, and put together a personal professional development (PPD) plan to stay agile, adaptable and future ready.
Explore how digital technology has fundamentally reshaped traditional business, and how businesses try to keep up.
Learn to collect, analyse, and interpret data, and to present your findings effectively.
Discover the critical role of marketing in business, from understanding customers’ motivations to engagement to measuring effectiveness.
Learn key marketing concepts and terminology, explore digital and content marketing, and more.
A fundamental understanding of how systems and processes operate is essential for the accountant.
This module teaches the basics of manual and computerised accounting, from double entry book-keeping to various accounting packages, accounting controls, suspense accounts, payroll, and more.
This module builds on the techniques developed in Accounting Skills, exploring accounting regulation and teaching you how to prepare key financial statements – income, financial position and cashflow statements – for organisations large and small.
Management accounting provides financial and non-financial information that will help managers make good decisions.
This module covers introductory aspects of accounting related to control and decision-making within business organisations, focusing on using relevant techniques to address various business management problems.
Through this module you will learn the need for regulation over the quality of financial reporting and the regulatory framework within which financial statements are prepared.
This module will introduce you to the function, principles, and techniques of financial management.
In particular, it will focus on the relationship between companies seeking to raise finance, and the investors who provide that finance.
You will develop a curiosity to understand and critique the impact of this evolving taxation environment.
The knowledge gained can be used for a career in practice, industry or for your own personal tax affairs.
This module will focus on the accounting concepts and techniques relevant to the provision of management information for planning, control and performance evaluation purposes.
This module is concerned with the analysis of financial institutions and markets in the UK, which are crucially important for the operation of a successful modern economy.
Please note: Not all optional modules are guaranteed to run each year.
Through this module you will become familiar with the methodologies required through the audit process and learn how to draft an audit report.
Understand money and the markets in our globalised economy.
Explore the language of finance; test and observe diverse investment strategies; and learn how key information can dramatically affect share prices.
This module investigates the international financial system.
Including; how banks really work, how to manage the economy, how countries should relate to each other and how developing countries can successfully develop.
This module will provide you with a wide range of techniques to enable you as a future manager to make quality decisions.
This module focuses on a stock exchange quoted company and how corporate finance theories and practices can enhance performance.
It takes an integrated view of how financing and investment decisions contribute to shareholders’ wealth creation.
Through this module you will evaluate current financial reporting practices and information produced by listed companies, including groups.
Keep up to date with financial reporting practices in an ever-changing global environment.
Explore contrasts between regional accounting styles, and investigate challenges in business performance analysis across national boundaries.
This module will explore the expectations placed on the auditor and consider whether they have ‘failed’ in some cases.
Through this module you will develop advanced practical tax planning skills.
Focus will be on the interaction of the various taxes to provide tax planning solutions.
Business needs to change – fast.
As a future manager and leader, you will consider climate change and the underlying economics, critically evaluating proposed solutions and their ecological and economic impacts.
The student achievement team are on hand to help you succeed during your studies at Solent.
They aim to contact you at key times during your time here with personalised information, advice and guidance, by email or phone.
The disability advice team provides information, advice and guidance for disabled students.
All students can access Succeed@Solent , Solent's online guide to getting better grades.
It offers extensive, practical information and advice on topics such as academic writing, research and presentations.
A degree in finance and accounting provides a broad business knowledge and skills which are constantly in demand and command a high salary.
Our degree addresses current thinking and helps you develop professional skills which will give you an edge at interviews.
Graduating with exemptions will make you a more attractive addition to an employer’s workforce.
Accountancy and finance as an industry provides an extensive range of careers in accounting related services such as auditing, taxation, management accounting, risk assessment and business consultancy.
Finance specialisms include a broad range of industries such as banking and investment companies.
This course covers elements from each of these industry sub-groups, delivered by lecturers with real-world experience.
Up to: £40,000
Starting salaries for graduates can vary depending on the location, sector, size, and type of firm.
During training, the average earning potential can be up to £65,000.
Average graduate salary: £28,000
On qualification, and as you progress into more senior roles, you could earn anywhere between £32,000 and £45,000.
Salaries for external auditors vary depending on the location, size and type of firm.
Starting salary: £20,000 to £32,000
For graduate trainees.
Newly qualified chartered tax advisers can expect an annual salary of £26,000 to £36,000.
Working in corporate tax usually attracts a higher salary than working in personal tax.
The stated salaries are published on prospects.ac.uk .
Income figures are intended as a guide only.
The Solent Careers team is committed to getting students into great careers.
While you are studying, the team can help you with finding work experience or placements, link you with a mentor, check your CV, or offer one-to-one guidance.
We also have graduate job opportunities just for Solent graduates.
6th
UK uni for sustained employment
Longitudinal Educational Outcomes, 2022
Every student at Solent University will also have the option to study an additional Certificate in Practical Artificial Intelligence qualification alongside their course.
Free of charge, the course ensures you'll be prepared for a fantastic and varied career after graduation.
Thinking about studying further than an undergraduate degree?
Alumni can get 20% off their postgraduate study.
Explore global trends and get to grips with the challenges and financial sustainability that underpin successful financial management on this industry-focused master's degree.
Take your career to the next level with our professional course accredited by the Association for Project Management.
Dive deep into the methodologies, techniques, and processes of project management.
The tuition fees for the 2025/26 academic year are:
The increase in fees for UK, EU (settled status) and Channel Island students is in line with Government guidelines.
While most course costs are covered by your tuition fees, some essential resources and optional extras may need to be paid for separately.
These additional costs are listed below.
For advice on budgeting and managing your money, please contact student.funding@solent.ac.uk .
The 2025/26 other costs are not yet available.
For guidance, the 2024/25 other costs were:
Optional costs
Solent EU Welcome Scholarship (Fee Discount)
This scholarship is available to students from an EU country, with EU nationality, who are applying for an undergraduate course starting in September 2025.
The scholarship will reduce your tuition fees to £10,500 per year - this includes foundation years.
Find out more about the scholarship
There is no charge to attend graduation, but you will be required to pay for the rental of your academic gown (approximately £45 per graduate, depending on your award).
You may also wish to purchase official photography packages, which range in price from £15 to £200+.
Graduation is not compulsory, so if you prefer to have your award sent to you, there is no cost.
Extra guest tickets will go on sale after results publication and will be sold on a first-come-first-served basis.
The cost per ticket is currently £20.
Please note, we do not guarantee there will be any extra tickets available to purchase.
Please select an option below:
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels.
If you are applying from outside the UK, find information about entry requirements, visas and agents for your country here.
For further information about EU qualifications, please see our course entry requirements document .
For international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements for this undergraduate degree, our trusted partner, QA Higher Education offers the following pathway programme designed to develop your academic and English language skills:
For further information about international qualifications, please see our course entry requirements document .
All international applicants need to be aware that the English language requirements to attend Solent University, and the English language requirements to obtain a visa from the Home Office, may be different.
This means that if you meet the Solent University language requirement to gain a place on the course, you may still have to meet additional requirements to be granted with a visa by the Home Office.
We strongly advise all applicants to visit the Home Office website which outlines all the requirements for a successful visa application.
Full-time
Any student applying for the first year of a full-time/sandwich undergraduate course must apply through UCAS (University and Colleges Admissions Service).
This includes mature, overseas and EU students.
Nearly all schools and colleges offer their students the facility of applying electronically through the UCAS website using 'Apply'; it may also be used by those applying independently in the UK and overseas.
This facility and all course information can be found on the UCAS website: www.ucas.com .
Your application should reach UCAS by 31 January if you hope to enter a course the following autumn.
Early application is advised for the most popular subject areas.
Late applications may be made until the end of June.
The UCAS Code for the University is S30, code name SOLNT.
Find out what happens after you apply
Contextual offers
Solent endeavours to offer learning opportunities to students from all backgrounds.
When we receive and review an application, we take into consideration the context and personal circumstances of applicants when making a decision, which means our advertised entry tariff could be reduced.
Find out more about Solent's contextual offers
Alternative entry on this course is available through the Business and Law Foundation Year.
Direct entry into year two or three may be considered for this course.
Holders of AAT Professional Diploma in Accounting or AAT Level 4 Diploma in Accounting are awarded direct entry to the second year on any named accounting programme.
Top-up route:
We welcome applications from students currently studying a Foundation Degree, DipHE, HNC, HND or modules of an undergraduate degree course at another university, who wish to enter directly into Years 2 or 3 of one of our undergraduate degree courses.
Please contact our admissions team for more information: contact us
Applicants who do not have English as their first language will be required to demonstrate an approved level of proficiency in the use of the English language.
The agreed minimum requirements for this course are:
Qualifications are checked before enrolment, and international students must bring their original certificates or certified copies when coming to study at the University.
Pre-Sessional English programme The University also offers a pre-sessional English programme for international students who wish to improve their level of English before starting a degree course.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/accountancy-and-finance-bsc/2025/bsc-hons-accountancy-and-finance-4-years-with-foundation-year-2025:
Designed by experienced academics who’ve worked across key roles in a wide variety of industries, our Business and Law Foundation Year is designed to build your confidence, develop your capabilities and ensure you’re future-ready and ready for the competitive global marketplace.
From core subjects such as business, law, finance, marketing, enterprise, personal development and projects in the community, you’ll gain a solid introduction to the foundations of business and law, study contemporary business challenges, identify future trends and focus on the areas and industries which matter to you.
And throughout the foundation and subsequent full Solent degree, you’ll do more than learn the theory – you’ll learn to apply it through an innovative range of assessment and ‘real-world’ live briefs.
Our degrees offer the chance to engage and get hands-on experience of international business and legal challenges and contexts, as well as a variety of extra qualifications, exemptions and memberships in addition to your honour’s degree.
Solent’s Business and Law Foundation Year is ideally suited if you want to build your academic knowledge and confidence to return to studying or progress in your studies.
You’ll develop strong academic and organisational skills, and prepare yourself for successful careers in a range of business industries – studying a curriculum that is not just about theory but real-world application.
The accountancy and finance degree is ideal for anyone who is hoping to pursue a career in the wide range of jobs related to accountancy and finance sector which is a huge industry area.
As a future business, finance, marketing, maritime or law professional, awareness of personal strengths and development areas is essential to your success.
This module teaches you critical academic and communication skills, and introduces the living CV concept.
Understanding the business environment is vital for running a business.
Learn about the various forms, purposes, types of ownership and governance structures across different sectors and scales, explore strategy and its implementation, and look at measurement and environmental modelling.
Effective marketing allows businesses to develop sustainable and valuable relationships with their audiences.
Exploring real-world case studies, this module covers introductory marketing theories alongside branding, customer insight and data, GDPR, consumer rights and the latest innovations.
Understand the nature and sources of law and key concepts underlying legal systems.
This module will look at the English legal system, consider the different courts and their functions, legal personnel and the legislative process.
Understanding finance requirements is key to ensuring a business thrives.
You will learn fundamental terms and concepts, such as key performance indicators (KPIs), regulation, cashflow, financial statements and accountability – ensuring you are an asset to your team.
Study the value and social impact of enterprise, working as a group to analyse local organisations and provide valuable insights – and developing vital skills that employers are looking for, from research and teamwork to effective communication.
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each individual component
or equivalent.
The University also offers a pre-sessional English programme for international students who wish to improve their level of English before starting a degree course.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/accountancy-and-finance-bsc/2025/bsc-hons-accountancy-and-finance-4-years-with-year-in-industry-2025:
The placement year will allow you to put what what you've learned in your first and second years into practice in the workplace, while gaining valuable real-world work experience before you graduate.
If you're looking to gain a year's worth of industry experience as part of your studies, this course is for you.
Our course and placements teams will help you find the perfect industry placement in your chosen field.
The course has an optional placement year (46 weeks, full time) between years two and three of the programme.
With support and guidance from the course team and Solent Futures, our careers service, you will arrange your own work placement and submit a learning contract, as well as developing a reflective portfolio during your placement which critically appraises your role and performance.
Recent placements have included Boeing, Enterprise Rent-A-Car and private accounting practices.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/accountancy-and-finance-bsc/2025/bsc-hons-accountancy-and-finance-5-years-with-foundation-and-industry-years-2025:
Recent graduates have found roles at Deloitte, Smith and Williamson, Estee Lauder and John Lewis, among others

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/acting-and-performance-ba/2025/ba-hons-acting-and-performance-3-years-2025:
Whether it’s treading the boards, or taking your mark in front of a camera, our acting and performance degree gives you the freedom to follow your dream, with real-world experience in the industry.
This exciting course gives you the chance to get some key professional acting skills, gain theoretical knowledge of stage and screen acting (with no formal exams), and build a performance portfolio to showcase your talents in a supportive learning environment.
You'll learn essential acting techniques for stage and screen, as well as body and voice skills, approaches to the history of performance, and theories of performance.
You will be able to perform in film projects and theatre productions in public venues, and learn from an experienced, welcoming, and helpful teaching team who have been professionally engaged in stage and screen acting and directing.
Optional modules in your final year also enable you to specialise in areas such as directing, performing arts in education, stage combat, or music theatre, further broadening your career pathway.
Thanks to the course team's links with industry, you’ll have the chance to gain practical experience working with local institutions on live briefs.
Our industry links can create exciting partnerships with professionals - guest tutors include actors, directors, and career guidance professionals who will share their unique insights.
Spotlight, the leading casting platform, and Equity, the actor’s union, worked together to create guidelines for drama school and university courses.
Our course has been recognised as fulfilling these guidelines allowing our third-year students to become both Spotlight Graduate members and obtain Equity’s full membership.
During your studies you will be eligible for Student Equity membership at a much-reduced rate and Equity’s full membership upon graduation.
This will allow you to access essential career resources such as information on casting, contracts, pay, and to create a personal profile on their website.
As a Spotlight Graduate Member, you can receive tailored events to help nurture your transition from training to the industry, as well as discounted membership for the first two years of your career.
During the third year of the course, one student is nominated by course staff to compete for the Spotlight Prize, with a chance to win a cash prize and perform at an industry event in front of an expert panel of judges.
In the final year, you can participate in an industry-standard performance showcase in London, providing the perfect opportunity to present yourself to the industry and develop professional networks that will help launch your career in the performing arts.
Our showcase is listed on the Spotlight Performance Calendar, making it visible to casting directors and agents.
As an acting and performance student you will have opportunities to access a range of resources to support your learning, including HD cameras, radio suites, multi-camera studios, motion capture studio, and professional theatre venues.
You will be presented with the opportunity to participate in extra-curricular student-directed film projects which will develop your screen acting skills and provide additional footage that could be added to your showreel which is created as part of your industry ready marketing material.
Recognised by:
Our course is recognised as fulfilling the Spotlight and Equity guidelines for drama school and university courses, allowing third-year students to become Spotlight Graduate members and obtain Equity’s full membership.
This course has access to specialist facilities
Solent’s Acting and Performance degree is ideally suited to students with a passion for performing arts and a desire to work in a performance related area.
Strong communication and team building skills make our students highly desirable for employers across of range of industries.
Applicants ideally will have some previous experience and/or qualifications in drama and will be required to present an audition.
The nature of this degree prepares students for a career in the performing arts.
Our alumni have gone on to post-graduate studies, teaching, cruise ship entertaining, theatre and/or screen acting, theatre in education, children’s’ entertaining and more.
Graduate
Course tutors are academic and/or industry professionals whose knowledge and contacts provide you with an invaluable resource for understanding contemporary trends and opportunities in the performing arts.
In addition, visiting lecturers provide further insight into current workplace practice.
Our focus on employability ensures that you leave us with the skills and confidence to realise your career ambitions.
Acting Course Leader
Students have access to a variety of rehearsal spaces including rehearsal rooms and studios with sprung floors, as well as a 64-seat flexi-form space on campus, which can be used for live performances.
Students will be able to use the University's collection of musical equipment, including a piano, electronic keyboards and portable stereo systems, as well as technical equipment including HD cameras, rifle mikes, tripods and monitors, radio microphones, a mixing desk, and Dictaphones for interviews and research.
Edit suites equipped with Final Cut Pro are also available for use.
On-site library facilities include a range of industry specific books, articles, journals, DVDs and audio-visual resources to support research.
Perform in a play in front of an invited audience.
This module takes the acting skills and techniques that you have learnt learned during your First Year and puts them to work with a director and other actors.
Through this theoretical module you will explore the historical development of acting techniques and practitioners, study their impact on the performing arts, and explore their differences and similarities.
Free, release, and develop your body and voice by focussing on the techniques of leading practitioners.
This practical module teaches the fundamental physical and vocal skills needed by the modern actor.
This module begins the process of honing your acting skills to a professional level.
It’s your opportunity to focus on advanced acting techniques using a range of popular and influential practitioners.
This module helps you to understand where acting and theatre have come from.
It explores the history of live performance from early ritual through to the 21st century, considering how audiences, performers, theatre spaces and play-texts have changed and developed over time.
This module introduces you to a range of screen acting genres and styles whilst developing your awareness and application of the technical challenges associated with working on camera.
Perform a full-length theatre production for a public audience!
Demonstrate your acting skills in an intense, scripted production project.
Race, gender, and disability are key concerns in modern society.
Using a mixture of theory and practice this module will explore ways in which theatre and performance use these issues and others to inspire new theatre work and impact society.
You will create a theatre performance, to be performed live, which connects with a ‘real world’ audience.
Recent examples have seen our students engaged in an ambitious local project working with asylum-seekers, engaging with street theatre, and creating shows for sixth-form college audiences.
Use first-year skills as a basis for developing your screen acting skills.
You will work on aspects of naturalistic screen performance, such as listening and responding, to create believable screen characters.
You will learn how digital technologies and social networking have changed the concept of performance – the computer is now the largest virtual stage in the world, watched through the proscenium arch of the screen.
Develop your acting skills through solo performance.
Learn and work on monologues that can be used as audition pieces for showreels, self-tapes and live professional auditions after university.
Create a season of short plays for public performance.
This module is the culmination of your degree, since you are given the opportunity to develop, rehearse and present a performance which showcases everything that you have learned.
Here you are given the opportunity to delve into an area that excites and stimulates you.
By making your choice of what to research, you will form a deep knowledge, understanding and appreciation of an area that could support your career pathway into the performing arts, building valuable networks and contacts within the industry.
You will be given the opportunity to put into practice the acting techniques and skills acquired throughout your degree in a screen performance written and directed by a tutor or outside professional.
Graduation is just around the corner, and now is the time to prepare for your future!
This module will help you develop the skills, tools and information needed to launch your career in the creative industries.
For anyone interested in performing arts teaching as a career, or in developing skills in leading workshops which you can add to your performance CV, this is the optional module for you.
Direct a scene from a play script/musical theatre libretto and present it to an invited audience.
This module will give you an insight into professional theatre directing – working with actors, working with scripts and organising people and time.
An exploration into Total Theatre, building on the inspiring work of Joan Littlewood through to cutting edge contemporary theatre companies such as Punchdrunk, Kneehigh and Shared Experience, Music Theatre has found its place in leading-edge theatre making.
With the growth in the gaming industry and popularity of action films and television series, it is now more important than ever for a versatile actor to be able to carry out a choreographed combat sequence with confidence and safety.
This optional module will prepare you for such demands.
Work as an actor or performer varies enormously, from live stage performances of the classics, west-end shows and community theatre, to soap operas, radio work, television advertising and film parts.
As well as providing entertainment, an actor's role may also involve education, training or therapy.
There are many opportunities across the film and theatre industries in the UK specifically.
London theatre audiences have exceeded pre-Covid levels, with West End theatre attendances at £16.4m in 2022, more than 7 per cent higher than the £15.3m recorded in 2019.
And spend on UK film and high-end TV production was £4.23bn in 2023.
(Creative Industries Council).
At Solent, you can gain theoretical knowledge of stage and screen acting, build a performance portfolio to showcase your talents and collaborate with students across other courses such as Film and Television to hone your craft for your professional career.
Longitudinal Educational Outcomes
Got a passion for filmmaking?
Want to improve your professional showreel and boost your employability?
Solent’s MA Film Production programme is ideally suited to students who...
The 2025/26 other costs are:
Compulsory costs:
Applicants from outside the UK will be required to send electronic auditions.
For further information about UK, EU and international qualifications, please see our course entry requirements document .
If you are applying from outside the UK, find information about entry requirements, visas and agents for your country here .
For more information about qualifications, please see our course entry requirements document .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/acting-for-screen-ma/2025/ma-acting-for-screen-september-2025-1-year-full-time:
Learn advanced screen acting techniques for film and television, working in professional studios and collaborating with expert tutors on a range of single and multi-camera projects.
This exciting course offers a practical exploration of professional screen acting skills and techniques through its application in both single and multi-camera performance work and will equip you with the techniques and knowledge required to work professionally in both television and film.
You'll also analyse current industry practice to support your preparation to enter it.
The MA builds towards a research project culminating in the development of an on-screen performance through a Practice as Research (PaR) approach.
In the first semester, you'll focus on developing performance skills and techniques for both single and multi-camera acting to equip you with the versatility required to work professionally as a screen actor.
Single camera acting is typical of film and television productions, whereas multi-camera productions are common for soap operas and situational comedies.
The technical skills required to work in these two production formats are complemented by the development of practical acting techniques to create characters from practitioners such as Konstantin Stanislavski, Uta Hagen, and Sanford Meisner.
Your learning is underpinned by the theoretical framework required to support your screen acting technique.
The second semester directs your thinking to your final master's project, which you'll undertake in semester three.
You'll develop a project proposal which will form the theoretical framework for your final practical project.
During this semester, you'll also consider the screen acting industry and how you as an actor can approach working professionally.
You'll also have the opportunity for cross-course collaboration within the Department of Art and Music, allowing you to be a part of Solent’s wider postgraduate study community.
The final semester focuses on your master’s project.
With tutor support, you'll apply your learning to create a final screen performance utilising a Practice as Research methodology to generate unique content for a 12- to 15-minute production which will be showcased at the end of the academic year to an invited audience.
During your studies you'll be eligible for student Equity membership at a much-reduced rate and Equity’s full membership upon graduation.
This will allow you to access essential career resources, such as information on casting, contracts, pay, and to create a personal profile on their website.
Speak to a tutor
You can apply direct to Solent University for this course
You can study this course part-time
Solent’s MA Acting for Screen is ideally suited to students who are looking to develop their screen acting skills and techniques across a wide array of screen-related media.
Applicants should have previous performance experience, though not necessarily on screen.
This course equips you with the skills required to work as a professional Screen Actor, across a multitude of genres for film, television and screen-related media.
It will also equip you with the knowledge and skills to create your own screen work for careers such as recorded media content creator.
The MA also provides you with experience of Practice as Research (PaR) which can be further developed for postgraduate research, such as a PhD for those wishing to pursue academic careers.
Students have access to a wide range of professional equipment and facilities.
Practical classes are typically taught in a studio environment, including our virtual production screen studio and multi-camera studio.
When required, ADR (automated dialogue replacement) and radio studios are used for sound recording for projects.
Students have access to specialist recording equipment such as video cameras, microphones, tripods and lighting equipment.
This module focuses on the development of advanced screen acting skills and techniques.
Central to the module is continuity in performance, and addressing the needs of working on single-camera productions, such as feature film.
The module develops your ability to adjust your acting for varying shot sizes while maintaining continuity between takes.
Central to the module is creating a performance which is highly effective for multi-camera productions, such as situation comedies and soap operas.
This module has been specifically designed to equip master's students with an in-depth knowledge of their chosen sector and provide the insight and understanding to enable them to support their long-term career plans.
In this module you will plan and prepare an academic proposal for your master's project or dissertation.
You will be taught how to successfully define, research and prepare for a substantial project or dissertation that will bring to life research in interdisciplinary creative practice.
Traditional research-based skills and knowledge will be explored in relation to contemporary research methodologies.
The final project is one of the most important learning activities that culminates the master's programme.
It is a body of academic work, autonomous and individual, which allows you to delve into a topic of interest and develop and integrate the set of skills and abilities acquired throughout the course.
This can take the form of practical performance work or a written dissertation, depending on your preference.
At Solent, our aim is to deliver innovative, inclusive and intellectually stimulating teaching to develop self-confident and highly employable graduates.
You will be supported to develop a range of transferable skills throughout the course.
This includes project management, research, time management, public speaking, team work, collaborative content creation, sound and video recording, sound and video editing, and performance skills.
Official statistics compiled by the British Film Institute (BFI) showed high-end film and television production in the United Kingdom contributed £6.27 billion to the UK economy.
This figure only reflects the work produced by internationally-recognised production companies shooting in the UK, with the total contribution of the film, television and video sector contributing to 12.6 billion to the UK economy.
This course is designed to give students the opportunity to develop the nuanced acting skills required to realise an on-screen performance.
Creating graduates who can work across a multitude of on-screen mediums such as television and film.
The programme will be rooted in the study and application of psychological realism with emphasis placed on the methodology of Konstantin Stanislavski.
In combination with contemporary screen acting technique.
The course has strong links with City Eye Productions who offer consultancy and provide opportunities for work experience and collaboration as and when they arise and are appropriate.
As part of our global alumni community, you can take advantage of a range of benefits.
Whether it's been days or decades since you left us, or you're soon to don your cap and gown, things are constantly changing at Solent.
We're always innovating, but we're also immensely proud of our heritage.
Research doesn't just live in publications and journals - the effects of groundbreaking research can be found everywhere you look.
That's why research at Solent has always been firmly rooted in industry needs and real-world application.
Solent University prides itself on carrying out not only pioneering research, but also research that addresses real world problems.
We offer opportunities to study for a Master of Philosophy (MPhil) or Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in a number of areas.
At Solent, we want to help you achieve your best and discover new insights.
Whether you're thinking about applying for a PhD, or already underway with your research studies, you'll find useful guidance and information in our research pages.
The optional costs for the 2025/26 academic year are not yet available.
For guidance the 2024/25 optional costs were:
Applicants will be invited to attend an audition which includes an on-screen performance of a monologue and interview with a member of the course team.
For further information about UK, EU and international qualifications, please contact admissions .
We strongly advise all applicants to visit the Home Office website which outlines all the requirements for a successful visa application and to take a look at our course entry statement document.
An honours degree at 2:2 or higher
Applications for postgraduate courses can be made at any time prior to the start of the course.
However, we strongly recommend you apply at your earliest convenience.
Please ensure you upload the following mandatory documents with your application:
This course will start September 2025.
Please contact admissions for more information about applying.
This course will start September 2026.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/acting-for-screen-ma/2025/ma-acting-for-screen-september-2025-2-years-part-time:
For guidance, the 2024/25 optional costs were:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/adult-nursing-practice-bsc/2025/bsc-hons-adult-nursing-practice-3-years-2025:
Change lives and become a confident and caring nurse with our NMC-accredited Adult Nursing Practice degree.
Working with partner NHS Trusts, gain the skills for a fulfilling and successful career.
In collaboration with health and care providers, this undergraduate pre-registration nursing programme supports the growth of nursing in the region.
The course is accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
This accreditation will mean that on successful completion of the programme you’ll be entitled to register with the NMC.
The course is designed to help you progress from a novice practitioner towards the skills of competent registered nurse.
High emphasis is given to clinical skills training, nursing assessment and care planning, inter-agency and inter-professional working, evidence-based practice, and public health initiatives.
The course features a case-based approach to teaching and learning and key elements such as pharmacology, physiology and holistic practice are threaded throughout the modules.
Upon completion of your training you will have gained a range of skills and experience and will be ready to transition into the role of a qualified nurse.
You'll be taught by a combination of academic staff with practice and/or research experience, alongside clinical educators from our partner NHS Trusts.
You'll also have the opportunity to learn and work alongside other students and staff from a range of disciplines.
The course combines three strands of learning:
Using our simulated practice placements, we pride ourselves on culturally preparing our students for clinical practice by supporting them through scenarios such as how to challenge hierarchy, how to manage ward environments, and common cultural practices within our local trusts.
As a widening participation university, we are proud of the diversity of our students.
We welcome many international students, those with learning differences, first generation university goers, and mature students.
It encourages vibrant conversations and helps everyone understand different perspectives and ways of life.
Through these discussions, we learn unjudgmental acceptance and, most importantly, learn how to nurse a diverse patient group.
Accredited by:
Accreditation from the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) means that on successful completion of this course you’ll be entitled to register with the NMC.
This course has been accredited by a professional body
As part of your studies you will have the opportunity to undertake a work experience placement
This course is ideal for anyone who wishes to pursue a career in adult nursing within the NHS or private or community healthcare services.
Candidates should expect to undergo a values based admissions selection process including an interview and assessment.
For more information about the professional standards of practice and behaviour for nurses, midwives and nursing associates, please refer to the Code of Professional Standards (Nursing and Midwifery Council 2018).
Qualified nurses can undertake nursing roles in primary or secondary care, both in the UK and overseas.
Graduates could also pursue a career in charity or aid work, or within the armed forces or prison service.
With further experience, future careers can include advanced practice nursing, nurse education and mentoring, and healthcare management, such as ward sister or matron.
Emergency Department Nurse
Our adult nursing degree is delivered by an academic team with extensive practice and/or research experience.
The course is in the UK's top 15 for teaching (NSS 2022).
You’ll have access to a range of our specialist facilities, including a nursing simulation suite, nutrition labs and biomedical science labs.
Through our partnership working with local NHS trusts you are likely to also have access to nursing simulation suites and professional spaces.
This module starts the journey into nursing practice by laying the foundations of knowledge and skills in nursing care.
Furthermore, you will be introduced to the evidence base and nursing theories that underpin the care planning and nursing needs assessment.
This module introduces concepts of professionalism in nursing, through competent and clear communication to ensure that clinical experiences are of a high standard for people in your future nursing care.
This module will enable you to begin developing your understanding of physical and mental health long-term conditions.
This will be approached through appraisal of current nursing evidence base within long term condition management, within your lectures and seminars.
This module is designed to introduce you to the field of public health, prevention of ill health and health promotion in relation to mental and physical health and wellbeing.
This practice module will enable you to develop the knowledge and skills required to deliver safe care to individual patients to meet their fundamental needs.
You will attend to clinical practice areas that provide exposure to adult, mental health, learning disabilities and children’s nursing practice.
Over the course of the module, you will be required to justify the planning of patient care in terms of current research evidence base and show involvement of patients (and their carers and families) in shared decision making.
This module will equip you with the skills and knowledge to assess and identify patients who are at risk of physical or mental health deterioration.
You will identify appropriate interventions to prevent further deterioration, including escalation and reporting to more senior members of the inter-professional team.
This module will provide you with the research evidence-based knowledge and understanding of the changing health care needs of people across the life span.
It will also explore the needs of people with specific health care needs including those with learning disability and mental health conditions.
Through contemporary research appraisal, you will build on knowledge of epidemiology, models of Public Health and Health Promotion and the importance of lifestyle factors for population health.
This module is split across several practice placements.
You will also become familiar with the role of the nurse and the importance of professionalism in practice.
Reflection on practice will enable you to identify your own areas of strength and areas for development.
In this module you will learn the principles of coaching, supervising, assessing and teaching.
You will work with more junior staff, service users or carers to support the development of practical skills and knowledge.
This module uses a series of complex case studies that require you to build on the knowledge and skills gained throughout the course to plan and execute care, management and leadership in a range of settings.
On this module you will develop the necessary skills to undertake a critical appraisal of health-related research.
You will develop your understanding and knowledge of the role of audit and how research evidence informs professional practice, guideline development and policy decisions.
This module prepares you for your role as a registered practitioner and outlines your professional responsibilities.
The NMC Code will be central to this module as you recognise your accountability for patient safety, delegation, working in partnership and supporting others.
By the end you will have developed the skills and competencies to meet the NMC requirements of the pre-registration nursing education.
Nurses are in demand across the UK.
In the NHS alone, adult nurses make up the largest part of the workforce.
The course team has developed this programme in partnership with partner NHS Trusts and other health and social care providers.
Starting salary: £28,407
Starting salaries in the NHS rise to £34,581 (Band 5).
With experience, in positions such as senior nurse (Band 6), salaries progress to £35,392 to £42,618.
Salary range: £25,000 to £55,000
Salaries vary, depending on whether you work for a local authority or NHS trust, or for private and not-for-profit provisions.
All nursing students on courses may be eligible for non-repayable government funding of at least £5,000 a year.
Further information can be found on the NHS Careers website .
The 2025/26 other costs are:
Essential costs
All applicants must be 18 by the second month of commencing any pre-registration programme.
International students are subject to the University admissions process regarding international applications, and the key entry requirements for UK students.
In addition, international applicants must meet IELTS level 7.
For applicants where English is not their first language, English language proficiency must be at a minimum of IELTS band 7.0 with a minimum component score of 7.0 in reading, listening and speaking, and 6.5 in writing.
The Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) will also accept the OET examination certificate, for further information please refer to the NMC website .
Qualifications are checked before enrolment and international students must bring their original certificates or certified copies when coming to study at the University.
The University also offers a Pre-sessional English language course for international students who wish to improve their level of English before starting a degree course.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/adult-nursing-practice-bsc/2025/bsc-hons-adult-nursing-practice-4-years-with-foundation-year-2025:
During the foundation year, you'll study a range of topics that are central or highly relevant to the study of the social sciences.
You’ll explore areas such as mental health and wellbeing, contemporary issues in social sciences, and professional practice to help prepare for undergraduate study.
The foundation year has an applied focus – students are encouraged and enabled to apply their theoretical knowledge to real world problems, such as mental health, psychological wellbeing and everyday problem-solving
In collaboration with health and care providers, BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice undergraduate pre-registration nursing programme supports the growth of nursing in the region.
The course is specifically designed for those wanting to study social sciences but who do not meet the entry requirements.
It is also suitable for those who wish to refresh their academic skills and subject specific knowledge before starting an undergraduate degree.
Studying this foundation degree can help you on to the path of studying the full adult nursing practice undergraduate degree.
In this module you will focus on your own intended professional practice through the process of personal development planning.
We use key sociological concepts – such as identity, power and social institutions – to explore a range of topics that shape our society including education, the family and healthcare.
During this module, you’ll focus on an area of crime and justice that enables you to examine offending in our communities.
Exploring a range of different types of crimes, you’ll use sociological approaches and crime theories to understand criminal behaviour.
You’ll consider where and when crime takes place, as well as identify factors that contribute to criminal acts.
Drawing on real crime cases, you will use a range of academic and popular sources to understand the complexities of criminal behaviour and the elements within society that work together to maintain social control.
This module invites you to examine and question the ways in which online social media; television; newspapers, and other media sources communicate and represent contemporary topics and issues in the social world.
The module will introduce you to the methods used by social scientists to carry out research.
You will learn about examples of research from different disciplines within the social sciences, such as psychology, sociology and medicine.
This module will introduce the topic of mental health and will explore the different psychological approaches - such as biological, psychological and social - which psychologists use to understand positive and negative aspects of mental health.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/advanced-palliative-and-end-of-life-care-management-and-prescribing-pgcert/2025/pgcert-advanced-palliative-and-end-of-life-care-management-and-prescribing-september-2025-1-year-full-time:
Gain advanced skills, independent and supplementary prescribing rights and lead compassionate, personalised end-of-life care.
This postgraduate programme is designed for registered nurses who aim to enhance their expertise in providing compassionate, evidence-based care for patients approaching the end of life.
In line with the NHS Long-Term Workforce Plan's focus on developing specialist roles, this programme prepares professionals to deliver exceptional end-of-life care, ensuring dignity, comfort, and clinical excellence.
The course also covers essential pharmacology to ensure safe prescribing practices, with a strong emphasis on merging theoretical knowledge with clinical application.
Students will engage with various scenarios leading to prescriptions, encouraging reflective practice and the use of local and national guidelines to inform their decisions.
The programme includes two 30-credit modules: Palliative and End of Life Care, focusing on the delivery of holistic, patient-centred care, supporting physical, emotional, psychological, and social needs of service users and relatives at the end of life; and Independent and Supplementary Prescribing, offering the necessary knowledge and skills to prescribe safely and effectively, ensuring that care is managed and tailored real-time without delays or limitations.
The Palliative and End of Life Care module will be delivered in partnership with Mountbatten Hospice Group who provide inpatient and community palliative and end of life care across the Isle of Wight, Southampton and parts of Hampshire.
Experts from across the multi-professional team will deliver teaching, based on best practice and their knowledge and experience.
Teaching will be interactive and based on case scenarios to support application of theory into practice.
Through this course, professionals will be equipped with the competencies to address the complex needs of patients nearing the end of life, incorporating both clinical decision-making and compassionate care.
The programme emphasises the need to develop critical thinking and decision-making skills in palliative care settings, which aims to meet rising demand from the NHS and improve role retention through targeted education.
Our strong links with NHS trusts, hospices, and community providers offer real-world learning and placement opportunities.
And the teaching team are active clinicians, ensuring course content is up to date with current best practices.
This programme is vital for addressing the shortage of palliative care practitioners across the UK and will provide graduates with the essential skills, knowledge, and experience, that are instrumental in meeting the increasing demand for personalised palliative care.
This course is designed to provide registered nurses, with at least one year of post-registration experience, who are looking to develop specialist skills, with the knowledge and skills to deliver best practice palliative and end of life care in their area of practice.
You'll develop skills needed to make safe clinical decisions when assessing service users with diverse health needs across all healthcare settings.
Learn from qualified staff with a wealth of experience working in a range of clinical settings.
Course lead Advanced Palliative and End of Life Care Management and Prescribing
Module Lead Palliative and End of Life Care module
You’ll have access to a range of our specialist facilities, including a nursing simulation suite with a six bed ward, GP consulting room, nurse’s treatment room, waiting area/break out space, care home bedroom and working kitchen and bathroom.
There is a wide range of clinical equipment including simulation manikins to facilitate various simulated scenarios.
This module is designed to provide registered practitioners with the knowledge and skills to deliver best practice palliative and end of life care in their area of practice.
Students will develop confidence and skills in communication, assessment, management and care approaches for supporting and working with patients and families requiring palliative and end of life care, as well as emotional intelligence and resilience.
Practice will be underpinned by acquiring knowledge of the current frameworks and policies, existing theory and research that will be critically examined to enhance sound judgement and decision making when applying knowledge into practice.
This module was designed to respond to a demand from NHS and Health Education England to educate more prescribers to attend the demands of the population.
Students are expected to have developed competencies in the scope of Advanced Practice to ingress on the module and will be taught how to critique scientific evidence related to drug trials to support rational drug prescribing.
On the module you will be taught pharmacology, considerations for prescribing over the life cycle, in liver and renal disease and how to critique scientific evidence related to drug trials to support your practice.
Students are expected to apply what they have learnt into their clinical practice under the supervision of a practice supervisor along the duration of the course, considering local and national guidelines around prescribing.
This course incorporates the main domains of the Competency Framework for All Prescribers (2021) and attends to dilemmas around professional accountability, ethical and psycho-social influences that may influence prescribing practice.
Upon completion of this module, students will be able to update their registration to Independent and Supplementary Prescribers on their professional register (NMC).
Through this course you'll develop critical thinking and ethical decision-making, enabling you to navigate complex psychosocial, spiritual, and clinical aspects of palliative and end-of-life care.
You can gain in-depth understanding of pharmacology, prescribing principles, and relevant legislation to support safe, accountable practice.
Advance your clinical reasoning and holistic assessment skills to create personalised care plans, including complex prescribing and deprescribing decisions.
Develop effective teamwork and communication skills to collaborate confidently within multidisciplinary teams, to demonstrate your professional accountability and adherence to governance.
Reflective practice and quality improvement skills, empower you to evaluate and enhance service delivery in your own clinical settings.
This programme is vital for addressing the shortage of palliative care practitioners across the UK.
Careers in this field such as palliative care specialist nurse, offer the opportunity to make a meaningful difference by providing compassionate, holistic support to patients and families during some of their most vulnerable moments.
This course equips students with advanced clinical, communication, and decision-making skills that are highly valued by employers, ensuring graduates are prepared to meet the rising demand for skilled palliative care practitioners across a variety of healthcare settings.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/animation-ba/2025/ba-hons-animation-3-years-2025:
Bring your creative ideas to life using traditional, stop-motion or CGI animation techniques and gain professional experience through industry connections.
You will bring your concepts to life using industry-standard animation facilities - learning the full production process from first draft storyboarding to advanced filmmaking techniques.
This three year programme also gives you the time and support necessary to create a varied professional portfolio that’s perfectly suited to securing paid positions after graduation.
You’ll have the option to undertake industry projects both within our freelance modules, and alongside the course.
Our in-house creative agency, Solent Creatives provides you with the chance to pitch for paid work with commercial clients – past clients have included Bear Grylls, the BBC and Southampton Airport.
Our creative degrees allow our students to develop a critical eye for design with a knowledge of different design approaches and problem solving techniques.
Take a look at some of the great work they produce.
Solent’s Animation programme is ideally suited to students who want to bring characters to life on the screen.
Applicants should have a keen interest in drawing, making things move, and cinema generally.
The classical animation training on this course provides a springboard into any of the animation and related industries after graduation.
Whether it’s animating explosions on the latest video games, or creating a quirky character in adverts, or TV.
It is all built upon a solid, classics approach.
Our industry-standard facilities include traditional light-boxes, special effects workshops and green screen rooms.
Students are also given free access to Microsoft Office and a full suite of Autodesk software.
And as Solent is an Adobe Creative Campus, all students also have free access to Adobe Creative Cloud, which includes the full suite of Adobe professional software, including Photoshop, Illustrator, XD, Premier Pro, and more.
On this module you will learn the fundamental tools of creating 2D content from paper to screen and the pipeline in between.
Through this module you can begin to know when/where to apply the appropriate principles and techniques to start to make your animation more believable and fluid.
On this module you will learn the fundamental tools of 3D content creation, using industry standard software.
You will develop your skills in 3D modelling, texturing, lighting and rendering in the context of current industry practices.
On this module you will learn to focus on the visual research from observation, which is core to all animation studies.
This workshop led module takes the skills you learned from the Animation Principles module and introduces the concept of more complex tasks, within a team dynamic.
On this module you will get your first real opportunity to demonstrate, and evolve your transferable skills, by not only exploring different software, but with the space to take your animated works from 2D, to 3D.
In this module you will look at the historical progression of animation techniques such as basic cinematography and technologies that have evolved the way animation is created.
This module is about preparing you for the processes involved in pitching an animation idea.
You will research into various areas of the pitching process such as, character design, aesthetic research and choices, creating schedules and budgets and constructing a proof of concept.
This module will introduce you to various pre-production techniques.
You will learn how to create a production document as intended for industry which would effectively communicate between various departments to create a coherent production.
This module is about proving that you are able to animate a substantial, sequential, project through to completion.
You will tackle a task whilst paying close attention to the animation principles and strong performance animation you have practiced in the previous modules.
This module will begin to cement your visual vocabulary, by covering not only the theory of the screen, but provide practicable skills, to enable you to quickly put together content for the screen.
This module is a simulation of what it means to work as a freelance/team animator within the often-challenging parameters of short form client work.
This module will introduce you to more complex animation practices within the character animation parameters.
You will learn professional animation production processes and pipelines and apply them to your own production practice alongside relevant supporting media techniques.
This module invites you to formally propose your final major project.
The emphasis is on proving the legitimacy of the end product, and will form the foundation for subsequent stages of production.
During this module you will be expected to produce a comprehensive directory (Production Bible) which includes everything a production team would need to successfully complete the product in line with the director’s (your) vision.
Throughout this module you will learn various skills and practices that will prepare you for gaining employment within industry.
You will also create an online presence as an artist and have the skills to maintain it.
The module is predominantly one-on-one tutorials, but with the addition of occasional graduate skills masterclasses, in the more high-end aspects of production.
This module is your opportunity to show off the hard work that has gone into your final major project.
Sharing your process, and the artist responsible, ensures there is added value to your product, and that none of your creative vision is overlooked.
The creative industries generate £108 billion a year and employ over 2.3 million people across the UK.
And the sector has grown at more than 1.5 times the rate of the wider economy over the past decade.(Government Policy paperCreative industries sector vision: a joint plan to drive growth, build talent and develop skillsUpdated 20 June 2023).
There are new tax changes for 2024, expected to be worth £5 million each year to business alongside the Audio-Visual Expenditure Credit, which was uplifted at budget from 33.33% to 39%.
This also follows the Creative Industries Sector Vision published last month, which set an ambition to grow the creative industries by an extra £50 billion by 2030.
(Animation magazine 2023).
Typical salary: £20,000 to £30,000
Entry salaries are in the region of £12,000 to £15,000.
Salaries in computer game animation start higher at £18,000, rising quickly with experience.
Experienced animators can earn around £23,000 to £26,000.
Salaries for animators with at least ten years' experience are around £36,000+.
Typical salary: £25,000 - £40,000
Starting salaries for entry-level or junior concept artist positions are in the region of £17,000 to £20,000.
Experienced concept artists can earn between £25,000 and £40,000.
Senior concept artists can earn around £55,000 and £75,000.
Freelance rates for concept artists are around £14 per hour on average.
Do you have an eye for design?
Would you like to help influence the future of visual communications?
Our MA Visual Communication degree is ideal for creatives keen to refine their practice, working as part of an interdisciplinary group of students.
Applicants from outside the UK will be required to submit an electronic portfolio for consideration.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/animation-ba/2025/ba-hons-animation-4-years-with-foundation-year-2025:
During the foundation year, you’ll cover key subject areas such as game art, game design, animation, CGI, VFX and code, and work on exciting practical projects designed to help you learn key digital design skills.
You’ll also be supported to develop key transferable skills in preparation for your degree level studies.
To aid study, you’ll have full access to Solent’s industry-standard facilities, including specialist labs and high-end dual computers equipped with industry software such as 3ds Max, Maya, Substance, Photoshop, Unreal Editor, and Unity.
You will be taught by passionate staff who are experts in their fields, with a wealth of real-world experience and knowledge.
This four year programme also gives you the time and support necessary to create a varied professional portfolio that’s perfectly suited to securing paid positions after graduation.
Solent’s Foundation Year in Digital Arts is intended for students without the required UCAS points for direct entry.
This could be mature students returning to education, students without the required qualifications, or students looking to change career path after completing further education qualifications.
This foundation year will help you build the relevant skills and knowledge to enter the BA (Hons) Animation degree here at Solent.
All animation lecturers are active within the industry; whether running their own animation studios, creating high-end content for VFX or presenting work on the international stage, the course team continues to innovate and excel.
What you learn on this module will help you further decide what course you want to study, or what creative industry you would like to work within.
The aim of this module is to enable you to gain a better and broader insight and understanding of each of the digital art industries whose practical skills we cover on Digital Art Design.
You will learn how to apply the practical skills and knowledge you have acquired to a number of practical design pieces of work that you independently create and take full responsibility for.
This module is your opportunity to further explore and develop the practical skills you have identified as important within your preferred discipline through the exploration and discovery you have undertaken within the Digital Art Discovery module.
This module will focus upon independent investigation and exploration, with feedback and support from your tutor.
You will independently learn about the discipline you wish to work within, specifically the jobs roles, key skills and responsibilities within that discipline.
You will learn how to present your work to a professional standard and how to construct and create both a development blog and portfolio of work that are relevant to the digital art or skill you want to work within.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/applied-ai-and-data-science-msc/2025/msc-applied-ai-and-data-science-sept-2025-1-year-full-time:
Immerse yourself in the in-demand fields of AI and data science.
Using problem-based approaches, your studies will equip you with the knowledge and skills to open doors to a wide range of careers.
This postgraduate conversion course has been designed to increase AI and data science experts in the UK market with the support of the OfS and industrial partners, including IBM, Motion-Robotics, Barter For Things Ltd, 451 Research, and University Hospital Southampton.
This course is also suitable for those who may not have a computer science or STEM academic background, but wish to start a new career in AI and data science.
Throughout the course you will explore fundamental principles and techniques, and will be supported to develop the practical skills to apply to AI and data science techniques to solve real-world problems.
The recent growth and developments in AI and data science is bringing significant social, economic, and health benefits to the world.
Using AI and data science techniques, digital machines can analyse and learn from big datasets, and discover more efficient ways to do complex tasks and make intelligent decisions with much higher accuracy and speed than human beings.
Automation of routine or mundane tasks is also a big feature of AI.
This is boosting the global economy by transforming business models across all sectors like healthcare, science, finance, banking, sales, marketing, manufacturing, engineering, construction, travel, leisure, hospitality, environmental monitoring, transport, and logistics.
AI enabled applications have already become an integral part of our life.
When you speak to Siri or interact with Cortana, AI and data science algorithms are running behind them.
Other exciting applications include medical diagnostics, speech recognition and synthesis, robotics, autonomous vehicles, stock price prediction, chatbots, natural language processing, and language translation.
Currently, AI is also being used to research Covid-19 treatments and vaccines.
The course also offers the chance to take a paid work placement in industry for up to six months after completing all modules.
This gives you valuable practical experience and confidence working in industry, boosting your CV and helping you to secure jobs in this area.
Support is given to help you find a placement but is your responsibility to secure one.
Alternatively, you may also apply to undertake a paid research placement at the University for up to six weeks, giving you the experience of working as part of a research team.
This would help you to pursue a career in research and academia.
This course has an option to start in January
This course has an option to start in May.
This conversion master's course is specifically designed for those who want to learn practical skills to apply AI and data science techniques to solve real-world problems.
The course does not require any prior technical knowledge.
Therefore, the course is equally suitable for applicants who do not have any computer science or STEM background, but wish to either start a new career in AI and data science or enrich their own areas with AI and data science expertise.
This course will give you the skills and knowledge to enter a variety of roles including:
Students will have access to IT suites equipped with high-spec computers and state-of-the-art-software and application development environments required to design and develop AI and data science application for real-world problems.
Problem-solving is the most sought-after skill in computing - identifying problems, devising solutions and implementing them in software.
This module will develop both your problem-solving and programming skills in Python, using real-world datasets and case studies.
AI is revolutionising the way we live.
Learn the underlying principles and techniques of data-driven AI solutions to real-world problems, from industry-standard machine learning techniques, models, and algorithms to the limitations and ethics of AI.
Data analysis helps business organisations understand their past, evaluate their present and predict the future.
This module explores key principles, theories and industry-standard techniques of data analytics and visualisation methods.
From speech recognition to medical diagnosis, applied AI is solving problems both new and ancient.
Through real-world scenarios and open-ended projects, this module explores the practical and professional skills required for data-driven AI solutions using industry-standard tools.
Your self-managed dissertation reflects your interests within the field, drawn from relevant theory and practical considerations.
You will identify a project topic, define the aims and objectives, manage a project plan and produce specific artefacts that demonstrate your intellectual and practical skills.
Supported by our in-house careers and employability service, a work placement in the industry gives you the opportunity to reflect on and implement your newfound knowledge and skills, and to learn about new concepts and working practices – as well as enhancing your professional connections and employability.
All our courses are design with employability in mind, which makes industry-based learning a priority.
Hear from Solent students and alumni about their careers and how studying at Solent prepared them for their future.
Software Engineer in Data Science- KTP Associate
This includes programming, project management, problem-solving, analytical skills, technical writing, teamwork, communication and presentation skills.
These transferable skills empower you to work in a range of different industries after graduation.
The course will also equip you with research and academic skills helping those who wish to pursue a PhD or an academic career.
According to Statista , the market for AI technologies is vast , amounting to around 200 billion U.S.
dollars in 2023 and is expected to grow well beyond that to over 1.8 trillion U.S.
dollars by 2030.
This new postgraduate conversion course has been designed to increase AI and data science experts in the UK market with the support of the OfS and industrial partners, including Barter For Things Ltd, 451 Research, and University Hospital Southampton.
This course will give you the skills and knowledge to enter a variety of roles including: applied AI developer, AI strategy manager, data analyst, data scientist, data mining engineer, machine learning engineer, business analyst, digital marketing analyst.
All course costs are covered by your tuition fees, however you are encouraged to have a laptop for your personal use.
We strongly advise all applicants to visit the Home Office website which outlines all the requirements for a successful visa application and to take a look at this PDF document which outlines both Solent University and Home Office requirements for a number of language tests.
Please ensure you upload the following mandatory documents with your application.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/applied-ai-and-data-science-msc/2025/msc-applied-ai-and-data-science-sept-2025-1-year-full-time-with-placement:
All course costs are covered by your tuition fees, however you are encouraged to have a laptop for your personal use

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeships/applied-biomedical-science-apprenticeship/2025/applied-biomedical-science-apprenticeship-september-2025:
Biomedical science is an ever-growing career with new technologies and an expanding workforce.
This apprenticeship will allow you to gain an in-depth understanding of the fundamental science behind the work that you do and allow you to develop a clear understanding of the major clinical disciplines.
This degree apprenticeship is focussed on you as the apprentice and has been developed with employers to ensure it meets the requirements of what you do every day.
As part of this apprenticeship, you will complete a clinical laboratory placement and complete your Registration Portfolio, allowing you to receive your certificate of competence and register with the Healthcare and Professions Council (HCPC) with no further assessments needed.
Throughout the course you will develop a clearer understanding of how fundamental biological and chemical concepts apply to biomedicine.
You will also learn more about the roles of different professionals throughout the patient pathway, as well as the importance of different tests to the final diagnostic outcome.
You will be informed of up-to-date techniques through our practical programme and how they apply to your discipline.
In your final year you have the opportunity to undertake a clinical research project within your host laboratory.
This will allow you to develop a line of research within your interests and discipline and of priority to your trust meaning you can have a beneficial input into the lab.
The course is extremely student focussed, and we ensure you will receive all of the skills and training to enable you to do well in your future career.
You won’t only be taught the clinical and practical skills you need but also transferable skills allowing you to make clear judgements, communicate with various audience and troubleshoot laboratory issues with confidence.
You will also develop skills related to industry specific programmes and technical skills in clinical writing, presentation and analysis.
Rated as 'Good' by Ofsted
Contact the apprenticeships team
Apprenticeships can add value at all levels of your business:
Here's what a higher or degree apprenticeship can offer you:
Following completion of this course you will be able to register with the HCPC and become a qualified biomedical scientist.
You will then be able to undertake a variety of roles within clinical or private practice as you further your knowledge and become more specialist.
This apprenticeship is ideally suited to students who are already working within the NHS.
This degree makes use of our range of biomedical science laboratories where you will complete all of your practical training using up-to-date equipment.
Away from studying, why not try out the gyms, fitness studios and sports halls in our Sports Complex, or watch a blockbuster film at our student-run cinema with Dolby Atmos audio.
You'll be taught by a highly experienced team who have all worked in the field.
Technician Instructor
Associate Lecturer
By the end of this module, you will develop an understanding of the fundamentals of human genetics and contemporary research approaches and methods for studying cells and genes.
This module will introduce you to several fundamental principles of biochemistry including the structure and function of major classes of biomolecules, the role of enzymes, enzyme kinetics as well as covering the key foundations of chemistry.
You will learn the fundamentals of haematology and importantly, explore the rationale for laboratory testing in routine and specialised investigation to examine different components of blood in healthy and diseased states.
This module has practical classes in both microbiology and immunology, enabling you to develop the core lab skills associated with these specialisms.
This module will teach you all the core practical skills that underpin every other practical on the course.
You will be introduced to relevant IT software and what scientific literature is, how to search it and how to write about it in an academic style.
This module will allow you to explore and explain the relationship between anatomical structure and physiological function.
Learning that how tissues and organs are structured (anatomy) is key to what function each performs (physiology)
This module builds on the fundamental molecular biology you started in the first year and will encourage you to dig deeper into the applied science of cell and molecular biology in relation to human health and disease.
This module will introduce you to a number of specific biochemical tests used to diagnose, monitor and guide treatment of several diseases and organ function including but not limited to kidney disease and liver function.
Through this module you will learn how haematology is interconnected with other related areas, such as cell and molecular biology, clinical biochemistry, oncology and immunology, which is reflective of the practice of a multidisciplinary pathology department.
You will learn about the structure and organisation of different cells that make up the variety of systems of the human body through visualisation of tissue samples under a microscope.
You will explore pathogenetic mechanisms of infectious diseases in normal hosts and immunocompromised patients and will study the fundamentals of diagnosis, treatment and prophylaxis of a number of common infections in humans
This module is based on the Apprenticeship Standard and will encourage your development in the skills, knowledge and behaviours associated with being a professional, thoughtful and highly employable biomedical scientist.
You'll develop an increasing awareness of your role in the context of the wider scientific and NHS community.
Outputs from many of the workshops in this module  will be used to build evidence for your professional portfolio.
The aim of this module is to bring you up-to-date with understanding pathogenesis, epidemiology, diagnostics, treatment and prevention options for microbial diseases that are of current concern.
This module allows you to review molecular, cellular and clinical aspects of a range of non-communicable diseases, including diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and cancer, considered to be the major causes of morbidity and mortality in Western populations.
During this module you will explore DNA analysis technologies, genetic markers, example diseases as well as some of the ethical considerations of genetic and genomic medicine.
Through formal lectures, you will develop a critical understanding of the underlying principles of pharmacodynamics (what drugs do to our body), pharmacokinetics (what our body does to drugs), and toxicology (adverse effects of drugs).
The research project will be your opportunity to demonstrate your ability as a scientist - to plan, execute, analyse and write up research in a professional and scholarly manner.
This will form the basis of a core component of your end-point assessment portfolio, when you will present your findings.
Your ability to undertake and write up a research project is fundamental to preparation for life as a competent and skilled biomedical science.
Successful apprentices will graduate with a: BSc (Hons) Applied Biomedical Science
Students are assessed through a combination of academic assignments and occupational standards assessments.
Coursework assignments can include presentations, essays, exams, case studies, practical assessments, and reflective accounts.
Apprentices area also expected to go through an end-point assessment within three months of completing the course.
Businesses with an annual payroll above £3million will be classed as a levy paying employer and will be able to use funds accrued in their digital apprenticeship service (DAS) account for payment of the training.
Please contact us for guidance on fees if you are a non-levy employer which will cover at least 95% of the costs.
Businesses will receive 100% of the funding where the apprentice is 16-21 at the start of the apprenticeship, or is between 22-24 with an education, health care plan provided by the local authority, or has been in care of their local authority.
The course fees will be covered by your employer.
Optional Costs
As an apprentice you'll earn while working and studying towards your degree.
To study for an apprenticeship, you must be employed by a sponsoring organisation.
The specific entry requirements will be agreed with your employer.
Applicants should:
or
An apprenticeship offers a unique blend of work experience and academic study.
Apprentices are employees with a contract of employment that must cover the duration of the programme being studied.
Apprentices have guaranteed time from their employer to complete their studies, at a minimum of six hours a week, known as off-the-job training hours.
The University will provide each apprentice with a tracker to ensure these off the job hours are logged to demonstrate compliance with this funding rule.
We offer a diverse range of higher and degree apprenticeships, some of which will include an additional qualification that will be studied within the Apprenticeship Standard, eg: HNC, BA or BSc.
Our apprenticeships give employees the opportunity to upskill in their chosen field or retrain for a new career while working.
Employers will see an increase in knowledge and skills, improved productivity, and a boost in the expertise of the workforce.
Solent is an experienced and well-established apprenticeship training provider, with qualification achievement rates significantly above the national average.
We have a broad teaching team who combine industry experience with academic expertise, so you can be confident you're being taught by an expert.
Throughout this programme, we'll help you develop your technical and managerial expertise, with sustainability and ethical practice being at the heart of what we offer.
Visit us on campus and explore Solent University by registering for one of our apprenticeship events.
Whether you are having financial difficulty, need additional help with academic skills or want advice on setting up your own business you'll find that help is always on hand.
Most of our specialist support services are based around the Student Hub, a central space where you can access all the information and support you may need during your time at University.
The Student Hub is the first point of contact if you have any queries relating to your course, including questions about your timetable, options, and assessments and extenuating circumstances.
Solent's learning technologies team are on hand to offer help and guidance with the University's online learning platform, Solent Online Learning (SOL).
You can contact the team either by email or via their virtual helpdesk, which is open 10am-4pm on weekdays.
Contact our apprenticeships team to discuss your needs
Contact our admissions team for any questions about the course

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/architecture-interiors-and-construction:
Design the future: transform spaces with architecture, interiors, and construction degrees at Solent University.
Our architectural design, interiors and built environment courses have a long history of producing award-winning graduates, with many exciting career prospects available after graduation.
There is a range of careers in the built environment – architectural technologist, interior designer, project manager, quantity surveyor and architectural designer.
Our professionally accredited architectural design, interiors and construction courses are of industry standard and bang up-to-date.
It means our graduates are exactly what employers want.
Some courses in this subject are accredited or endorsed by:
Showing 21 courses that fit your criteria
HNC
Foundation year
Apprenticeship
You've viewed 6 of 21 courses
Explore more of our subjects and courses
Practical work experience is at the heart of our degrees, and you'll benefit from our strong industry links.
Find out who you could be working with by visiting our course pages.
Build Manager
Throughout your studies you will have access to, and study in, a range of up-to-date facilities including the architectural technology and interior design studio, the construction and materials lab and the interior design decoration studio – as well as a range of modern and flexible classroom spaces.
A purpose-built lab for testing of various construction materials using state-of-the-art equipment.
The Library building is open for Solent students and staff to access computers and study spaces, and for browsing the shelves and borrowing items.
Used mainly for the teaching of materials and destructive testing (everything we test, we break!), the lab is also used for some non-destructive testing and students projects.
A fully-equipped traditional multi-discipline print and workshop space used to progress timetabled and open access undergraduate and postgraduate project work
As well as standard printing, Solent has a wide array of equipment for specialist printing onto almost any surface.
A state of the art centre designed to meet all sport and health needs.
Solent's £33m Spark building combines interactive teaching spaces with lecture theatres and an atrium with social spaces.
Central to The Spark building is the futuristic Pod, which has a full-size lecture theatre and open-topped breakout space.
Southampton Solent University's recent graduates are celebrating success at this year's New Designers.
Southampton Solent University has been nominated for a Building the Future Construction Award.
The 2025 winner of the Vistry Homes Award has been announced.
Many of our courses are accredited by leading professional bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE), the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT), and Society of British and International Interior Design (SBID).
This ensures that the curriculum meets industry standards and that graduates are highly employable.
Yes, Solent University has strong industry connections with companies like Ikea and Barrett Homes.
You'll have opportunities for work placements, internships, and live project briefs, which can help you build your professional network and gain valuable experience.
Interior designers generally have a background in art, design, graphical communication, product, or interior design.
A degree in interior design or a related field is typically required, as it provides the necessary knowledge and skills that employers seek.
Interior designers must understand how to make indoor spaces functional while meeting clients' needs in terms of design and layout.
They often use computer-aided design (CAD) software and need strong project management skills.
Interior decorators, on the other hand, focus more on soft furnishings, surface design, textiles, or interior styling.
Construction management is a broad field.
Construction managers are involved from the initial project conception, advising clients on the feasibility and safety of proposals, to the delivery on-site, managing the workforce, and ensuring the safe completion of the build in line with time, cost, and quality requirements.
They handle project planning, resource management, budgeting, and risk management, ensuring that construction projects are completed on time, within budget, and to the required quality standards.
We utilise a range of assessment methods on the courses, including presentations, reports, and exams.
The reports and presentations are typically based on live briefs or case studies, allowing students to apply their knowledge to real-world problems.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/art-and-design:
If you have your own unique visual style and want to explore a range of professional techniques, you could carve out a career in art, photography, graphic design, illustration or fine art.
At Solent, we offer a range of art and design courses where you can study the history of visual culture in a range of contexts, and utilise a range of software to craft your creations and realise them through professional-level printing machines.
Driven by a passionate team, our art and design courses help you to develop the essential skills and industry awareness required for work in the creative industries.
Showing 10 courses that fit your criteria
You've viewed 6 of 10 courses
Student
As an art and design student at Solent, you’ll have access to a range of high-end facilities to support your hands-on learning.
Our fine art, illustration, and graphic design studios offer state-of-the-art facilities, including a sculpture workshop with metalwork, welding, woodworking, and casting equipment, and a print-making workshop with intaglio, etching, silkscreen, and letterpress facilities.
You can make use of a media production store with high-end cameras, lenses, lighting, and sound recording equipment, all free of charge.
The interior design studio features equipment for surface decoration, spatial design, and interior styling, including a digital laser cutter.
Our photography studio complex includes eight private spaces with full-width backdrops, various lighting options, and camera supports.
Additional facilities include a still life studio, a white infinity cove, and three headshot booths.
The studios are self-service after training and open until 11pm.
Analogue darkroom comprising hand and machine film processing, black and white print enlargement, and individual colour enlargement booths.
A suite of professionally-equipped dedicated studio spaces that can been booked by students.
Multi-functional spaces for teaching workshops, set building, photography and practical work.
Available to photography, film, TV and media students to book and hire equipment to aid studies.
Louis Ross, a 2025 BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduate, has been recognised for his impressive Final Major Project.
BA (Hons) Fine Art graduate, Charlotte White, is the first winner of the Annabel Avison Prize for Exceptional Achievement in Fine Art.
You'll generally need around 104-120 UCAS points from at least two A-levels or equivalent qualifications.
Some courses might also ask for a portfolio of your work, so make sure to check the course details and prepare your best pieces.
Interior design: if you want to create environments for people expressed through interior design, surface decoration, or textiles, then interior design is for you.
This field focuses on designing functional and aesthetically pleasing indoor spaces.
Graphic design: if you want to create visual concepts for magazines, books, apps, or marketing publications, then graphic design is something you might want to explore further.
This field involves creating visual content to communicate messages through digital and print media.
Show your personality and creative talent: a good portfolio should demonstrate both your personality and your creative talent.
Include a variety of work that showcases your skills and creativity.
Document the creative process: the whole creative process is important, showing the thought process from initial idea through to completion.
Even unfinished work can be useful as it provides insight into your approach and problem-solving skills.
Tailor your portfolio: tailor your portfolio to the course you’re applying for.
Highlight projects that are relevant to the specific program and demonstrate your suitability for it.
Make it interesting and relevant: course tutors will have limited time to review each portfolio, so make yours interesting and relevant.
Include your best work and ensure it is well-organized and easy to navigate.
Absolutely!
Solent has strong links with local galleries and art organisations, giving you the chance to exhibit your work both on-campus and externally.
This is a great way to build your portfolio and gain exposure.
Solent graduates have gone on to work in various roles like graphic designer, illustrator, art director, gallery curator, web/UX designer, professional artist, photographer, design consultant and interior designer.
The uni's focus on practical skills and industry connections helps you get job-ready and stand out to employers.
During your studies, you'll have plenty of opportunities for work experience.
You can pitch for paid work with real clients through Solent Creatives, the university's in-house creative agency.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/business-marketing-and-finance:
Our business, marketing, and finance courses will equip you with the skills and confidence to succeed in leading global brands and organisations.
At Solent Business School, we’re passionate about empowering the next generation of leaders.
Whether your interests lie in sustainability, technology, maritime, travel, music, or law, we offer a diverse range of courses to fuel your ambitions.
Our industry-focused approach combines academic learning with real-world experience, preparing you for success in a rapidly changing world.
You’ll have the opportunity to work on real-world projects, gain work experience, and develop valuable skills like entrepreneurship, creativity, and digital literacy.
With strong industry connections and a supportive learning environment, you’ll be well-prepared to take on challenges and opportunities in management, communications, digital, and leadership roles.
Showing 32 courses that fit your criteria
You've viewed 6 of 32 courses
Founder of the Business Hive and Partner-Manager at Striit
Our facilities, including our award-winning teaching and learning building, The Spark, and our Bloomberg suite, provide you with everything you need to succeed.
Immerse yourself in a dynamic learning environment, access real-time market data, and develop the skills to thrive in the global business world.
A 12-month course focusing on the retail and leisure industry is now open for applications.
BSc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance student, Jessye Opoku-Ware is making a name for himself in sailing.
Academia and business collaborate on exciting new podcast
Your classes are generally timetabled for two to three days a week.
Outside of this time, you will be working on and completing your directed and guided learning activities.
Our courses are currently not designed for part-time delivery.
All classes are delivered on campus and supported by a wealth of materials in our virtual learning environment.
Many of Solent's business courses are accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
This means you can graduate with an additional CMI Level 5 Management and Leadership qualification, boosting your employability and giving you an edge in the job market.
We're committed to equipping you with the skills and experience you need to succeed in the competitive job market.
Across our course portfolio, we have embedded professional practice modules to support you to successfully take up work placement opportunities and to confidently enter the graduate market.
In semester two of your second year on our business management degrees, you can either use your part-time work to gain 20 university credits or undertake a work placement for the term to gain 60 university credits.
In semester two of your second year on the BSc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance degree, you can either use your part-time work to gain 20 university credits or undertake one of our option modules.
We will also guide you to develop your professional profile and personal brand to enhance your employability alongside our networking events where you will connect directly with employers.
Each module contributes to your professional growth, with outputs directly applicable to your CV.
Our 'Living CV' programme ensures you're always ready to showcase your skills and achievements.
You'll be assessed primarily through coursework, including reports, essays, and presentations.
In your second year, you'll also have one exam and an in-class test for the UK Financial Systems module, which is an option on the BSc (Hons) Business Management and a core module on the BSc (Hons) Business Management with Finance.
On the BSc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance, you’ll engage in a few different assessments which are a mixture of course work, reports, presentations, debates, in class tests and examinations.
The examinations are a requirement of the professional bodies who provide exemptions for successful completion.
You can make the decision on which pathway to follow during your first year.
The first year is common to all pathways, giving you a broad foundation in business management.
In your second year, you will be able to either chose your options for the second year or transfer onto one of our specialised pathways.
Solent is ranked in the top 15 for graduate start-ups, which means we provide excellent support for students who want to start their own businesses.
This includes access to resources, mentorship, and networking opportunities to help you succeed.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/computing:
Whether you want to specialise in computer science, software engineering, data science, AI, network engineering, cyber security, cloud computing, DevOps or web development, Solent has the course for you.
With significant investment in our industry-standard specialist facilities, highly qualified staff and a regular programme of guest speakers, you’ll be supported to develop the specialist knowledge you need for a fantastic career in the computing industry.
Our computing courses are also part of the South Coast Institute of Technology, a collaboration of FE colleges and universities offering courses that can lead to a wide range of exciting in-demand career pathways to boost employability.
Showing 16 courses that fit your criteria
You've viewed 6 of 16 courses
JP Morgan Chase and Co.
Our brand-new state-of-the-art digital centre is home to four specialist computing laboratories.
These labs are equipped with cutting-edge technology for AI and data science, networking, cyber security and usability, and set within a modern, dynamic learning environment designed to foster innovation and excellence.
These collaborative spaces ensure that you have the best possible resources to drive forward your projects and ideas.
Enhance your skills in our usability lab, where you can test and refine interfaces using advanced eye-tracking technology.
Learn to programme robotic devices, like robotic arms and drones, and develop innovative apps for Android devices.
Plus, make use of our devices lab, a specialized test area within our software development space, equipped with a range of real mobile devices.
Here, you can bring your websites and apps to life on actual equipment, ensuring they perform flawlessly in the real world.
State-of-the-art labs providing a vibrant environment to gain practical experience and learn modern concepts and industry practices in computer networks and cyber security.
Professional facilities with expert support to discover how users interact with websites, online advertising and other digital media.
Solent students are set to benefit from a new AI course alongside their existing studies
New computer labs to boost collaboration and innovation at Southampton Solent
Solent secures British Computing Society Academic Accreditation for another five years, endorsing the quality of our computing degrees.
Two MSc Applied AI and Data Science alumni presented their research papers at an international conference on AI for healthcare
A computing degree opens a range of IT careers from applications development to web design.
Job roles could include:
Your application should highlight your passion for computing and any relevant experience you have.
Include details about any programming languages you know, projects you've worked on, and any extracurricular activities related to tech.
Make sure to showcase your problem-solving skills and enthusiasm for the subject.
In a cyber security job, you will protect the world from hackers, viruses, and cyber-attacks using a variety of equipment including routers and switches, as well as software capable of foot printing, reconnaissance, scanning, and enumeration of computer network systems.
You will investigate the methods that hackers use to compromise vulnerable systems and look at mechanisms that can be used to secure them against attack.
Tasks may include monitoring network traffic, responding to security incidents, and conducting threat research.
The BCS accreditation provides assurance that our computing courses are delivering relevant learning that’s regularly updated and that meets the high standards set by the profession.
It validates the quality of your education, ensuring that the course content is aligned with industry standards and best practices.
This accreditation can enhance your employability by demonstrating to employers that you have received a high-quality education that prepares you for the tech industry.
Solent has cutting-edge facilities for computing students.
You'll have access to modern computer labs, a usability lab with eye-tracking equipment, and specialist software for programming and cybersecurity.
Plus, there are dedicated spaces for group projects and individual study.
We place a strong emphasis on enhancing your employability.
The curriculum is designed to develop practical skills and includes opportunities for work experience with companies like the NHS, Garmin, and Capita.
The university's location in the Southeast, a tech industry hub, also provides additional employment opportunities.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/digital-arts-animation-games-and-vfx:
Bring your artistic vision to life in the dynamic worlds of games, CGI, VFX, or animation.
Our industry-focused degrees empower you to hone your creative talents while building a professional portfolio in areas such as 3D modelling, texturing, lighting, effects, compositing, motion capture, and traditional animation—preparing you for an exhilarating career.
Guided by our expert course teams, you’ll develop the skills and knowledge to thrive as part of the next generation of artists in gaming, film, TV, and advertising.
You’ll also explore opportunities in cutting-edge fields like simulation, virtual and augmented reality, visualisation, virtual production, and more.
Showing 6 courses that fit your criteria
Environment Artist
Our industry-standard facilities offer the perfect environment to hone your skills and build a strong portfolio.
Our virtual production stage provides you with valuable opportunities for collaboration with CGI, digital arts and computer games students in creating assets and scenes using Unreal Engine 5.
Our computer game classrooms hold the latest industry-standard software for game artists and designers including Autodesk 3ds Max and Maya, Maxon ZBrush, Adobe Photoshop and Substance and Houdini.
And our animation studio, equipped with high-end equipment like lightboxes, computers with stop-motion for model-making and Adobe Creative Suite, provides you with the tools to bring your ideas to life.
A fully-functioning digital 3D cinema with a professional 2K projector and an exclusive Dolby Atmos sound system.
The only stage of its size and specification in the region and one of only five in the country installed in a university.
Third year BA (Hons) CGI and Visual Effects student, Richard Leech, has secured his dream role in industry before even graduating.
Second year Game Art students are proud to launch ‘CGA Expo’, an exhibition displaying their game artwork.
It’s a good idea to take A-levels that build your creative and technical skills.
Here are some recommended subjects:
These subjects will give you a solid foundation and help you succeed in your degree and future career.
To get into the video games industry, employers typically want to see a portfolio of your work to ensure you're suitable for a junior role.
This portfolio showcases your skills and creativity.
Alternatively, you might become an indie developer, which requires a broad skillset to create games from scratch.
A university degree can provide you with the technical skills and industry knowledge needed for a professional career.
Additionally, gaining experience through internships, participating in game jams, and networking with industry professionals can significantly boost your chances.
CGI artists and companies create special effects, characters, and environments for a wide range of media.
This includes art, printed media, video games, virtual reality, computer animation, and VFX in films, TV shows, and commercials.
They use advanced software and techniques to bring imaginative concepts to life and enhance visual storytelling.
Solent Creatives is our in-house agency where you can pitch for paid work with real clients.
Past clients have included Bear Grylls, the BBC, and Southampton Airport.
This gives you the chance to gain real-world experience and build your portfolio while studying.
We also have strong links with major industry players like Framestore, Cinesite, and DNEG.
These connections provide opportunities for internships, guest lectures, and networking events, helping you make valuable contacts in the industry.
You'll get to work on live projects, participate in game jams, and collaborate with film students on VFX projects.
This hands-on approach ensures you're well-prepared for the job market.
We have some great societies for digital art, animation, games and VFX students.
Here are some of the student societies you can join:
These societies are a great way to build your skills, make new friends, and have fun while you're at uni.
If you don't find a society that fits your interests, you can always start your own!

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/engineering:
Build a better world.
A career in engineering offers fantastic career prospects and great earning potential.
But more than that, it’s your chance to make a mark on the world – to find solutions for some of the greatest challenges facing us as a species, from climate change to food production to sustainable transport.
At Solent we go way beyond theory – we’re all about the practical side of things.
You’ll develop the essential understanding of engineering principles and theories, yes – but you’ll then test those theories yourself, getting hands-on with the technology, tools and practical principles as they apply in the real world.
Explore current challenges and problems.
Build your own turbines.
Programme your own robot.
Get hands-on experience in labs and with our engineering partner organisations.
Showing 24 courses that fit your criteria
BEng (Hons)
FdEng
MEng
You've viewed 6 of 24 courses
Practical work experience is at the heart of our degrees, and you'll benefit from our strong community and industry links.
We’ve invested over £5 million in cutting-edge engineering workshops as part of the South Coast Institute of Technology, ensuring you have access to state-of-the-art facilities to support your learning and innovation.
At Solent, you’ll explore mechanics and manufacturing across sectors such as aerospace, yacht design, automotive, and component production, with a strong emphasis on hands-on learning and industry applications.
Our facilities include state-of-the-art CAD and drawing offices, advanced 3D printing equipment, laser cutters, and a specialist composite workshop.
You’ll also benefit from dedicated labs for applied mechanics, materials, electronic engineering, manufacturing, and robotics, a 60-metre towing tank, a yacht design workshop and a four-metre static stability tank - tools trusted by industry leaders to test designs, including America’s Cup racing yachts.
These resources provide an unparalleled opportunity to gain practical experience and develop innovative solutions in your field.
The workshop is purposely set out to accommodate students and allow them to be taught mechanical engineering, and progress with any ongoing project work.
The towing tank is used for testing hydrodynamic lift and drag components for sailing and motor craft, and incorporates a wave motor.
The 2025 National Student Survey showcases the positive impact of Solent's Department of Science and Engineering.
Professor Susan Roaf, a pioneer in solar energy, has become an honorary Doctor of Engineering at Southampton Solent University.
Southampton Solent University is celebrating award-winning Mechanical Engineering students.
You'll generally need around 104-120 UCAS points (for a yacht course) and 104 UCAS points (for an engineering degree) from at least two A-levels or equivalent qualifications.
Some courses might also ask for specific subjects like Maths or Physics, so make sure to check the course details.
Solent has cutting-edge facilities for yacht design and engineering students.
You'll get to use industry-standard CAD and drawing offices, a fully equipped composite workshop, a 60m hydrodynamic test tank, and a static four-metre stability tank.
These are perfect for hands-on learning and putting your design skills to the test.
Plus, you'll have access to high-end gear like 3D printers, laser cutters, and digital signal processing boards.
The labs are packed with the latest tech, so you'll always be working with cutting-edge equipment.
Many courses include work placements as part of the programme.
Solent has strong industry links, so you'll have plenty of opportunities to work with real companies and gain valuable experience.
Plus, there are options for year-long placements between your second and third years.
Becoming a yacht designer requires a mix of technical and engineering skills, along with a good understanding of hydrodynamics and mathematics.
A yacht design degree offers the ideal combination of academic and hands-on technical skills; alternative routes into the role might be to undertake an apprenticeship with a design firm or start in an entry-level position at a design firm and work your way up.
This might involve roles like CAD technician or junior designer, where you can build your skills and move into a designer role over time
These paths can help you develop the skills and experience needed to become a successful yacht designer.
As a mechanical engineering graduate, you’ll have the skills and technical expertise for a wide range of roles.
Some of the common job titles include aerospace engineer, automotive engineer, CAD technician, control systems engineer, and maintenance engineer.
You can also find varied roles within manufacturing, product design, testing, robotics, renewable energy, and more.
Engineering graduates from Solent have gone on to work in exciting fields like electronics, robotics, and renewable energy.
Similarly, graduates from Solent's yacht courses have secured roles such as naval architect, design engineer, and production manager.
Top companies like Sunseeker Yachts, Humphries Yacht Design, and Laurent Giles Naval Architects have hired Solent graduates, so your career prospects are looking bright.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/fashion-make-up-and-prosthetics:
Learn the skills, build a portfolio and find your place among the half a million people already working in the fashion, make-up and prosthetics industry right here in the UK.
At Solent, you’ll learn from a network of professionals to make your ideas a reality, from academics with commercial experience to an elite guest speaker programme, with visitors including Caryn Franklin, Ateh Jewel, Terry Barber (Director of Make-up Artistry, MAC Cosmetics) and Martyn Roberts (Fashion Scout).
During your studies you will also have the chance to apply your skills in the professional world through real-world experience and internships, with past students working at London Fashion Week, Graduate Fashion Week, House of Holland, Timberland, Alexander McQueen, Ted Baker and M&S, amongst many others.
Showing 11 courses that fit your criteria
You've viewed 6 of 11 courses
Find out who you could be working with by visiting our course pages
Junior Creative Designer
As a fashion student at Solent, you'll have access to a range of high-end facilities to support your hands-on learning.
Our purpose-built fashion studios are equipped with industrial machinery, pattern-cutting tables, lock-stitch machines, overlock machines, cover stitch machines, two industrial button-hole machines, and a chain-stitch machine.
You'll also find over 50 mannequins and other essential equipment, including a blind hemmer, a fusing press, and industrial steam-irons with vacuum tables.
Our fully equipped make-up and hair design studios provide additional creative spaces.
For photography, we offer 11 studios and a fully equipped infinity cove.
Industry-focused special effects studios, a fiberglass lab, and a plaster room are also available for your projects.
Additionally, a Mimaki digital fabric printer is on hand for print and surface design projects.
Well equipped spaces where fashion students can work independently with guidance from knowledgeable technical staff.
The upcoming Graduate Fashion Week 25 Project Pitch will see four students present their Final Major Projects to industry.
15 graduating students from Southampton Solent University's Department of Art and Music took part in the 2025 Talent of Tomorrow shoot.
A third-year BA (Hons) Fashion Design student will see their designs come to life following competition success.
Fashion undergraduates at Solent have contributed to a fostering programme in Southampton.
Your portfolio should showcase your creativity and skills.
Include a variety of work that demonstrates your design process, from initial sketches to finished pieces.
Make sure it's tailored to the course you're applying for and highlights your best work.
There are many different careers available in the fashion industry, and first off, it's best to think about whether you want to work on the business or creative side.
It also helps to review job descriptions of roles you’d like to go into in the future, to see what qualifications and experience they are looking for.
Jobs in the creative side of the fashion industry include Fashion Designer, Textile Designer, Fashion Stylist, Fashion Illustrator, and costume Designer.
If you are more interested in the business side, you could become Fashion Buyer, Brand Manager, Retail Manager, Fashion Marketing Specialist or Merchandiser.
There are many design roles in fashion, from big brand fashion houses to boutique designers.
As well as having individual creative flair and an understanding of evolving trends, you’ll need technical skills such as sketching, sewing, and pattern cutting.
Additionally, pursuing a bachelor's degree in fashion design and gaining hands-on experience through internships can be crucial step.
Apparel, accessories, and footwear are the number one ecommerce sector in the world with a projected global market value of $1.0 trillion by 2025.
Fashion communication spans across roles such as content creator, social media manager, magazine publications, public relations, marketing, and managing brands and creative direction.
The skill sets in these areas are all vital to support the industry and the business of fashion.
Solent has strong links with the fashion industry, providing you with opportunities to showcase your work at prestigious events like Graduate Fashion Week.
Students' work has been featured in prominent publications such as Vogue.co.uk, Elle.co.uk, and Draper.
Solent emphasizes practical experience, with students gaining hands-on skills in creative pattern-cutting, garment manufacturing, and digital print design.
The curriculum includes a wide range of design briefs, from highly creative to live commercial project.
Some of our degrees require students to complete work placements as part of their studies.
Past students have interned at renowned fashion houses like House of Holland, Timberland, Alexander McQueen, Ted Baker, and Marks and Spencer.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/film-tv-and-media:
Benefit from hands-on training, established links with the media industries, and access to the latest media production technology,
Are you dreaming of becoming a director, cinematographer, sound engineer, journalist, producer, or multi-skilled media professional?
Or perhaps you aspire to a career in independent filmmaking, post-production, screenwriting, or art direction?
At Solent, our graduates succeed in these fields because they have the right skills, experience, and qualifications.
We provide real-world opportunities and hands-on experiences, enabling you to work on film productions, manage media for local sports teams, creatively support the NHS, film sporting events, livestream festivals, or specialise in content creation.
You’ll also have access to our professional newsroom and radio studios, HD performance studio, motion capture technology, HD broadcast vehicle, and networked studios, equipping you with industry-standard tools to kick-start your career.
Showing 14 courses that fit your criteria
You've viewed 6 of 14 courses
Social Media Community Manager
Our cutting-edge facilities are designed to replicate real-world industry standards, giving you the ideal environment to develop your skills and bring your creative ideas to life.
From professional-grade TV and radio studios equipped with advanced cameras, lighting, and sound equipment to high-tech post-production suites, a professional-style newsroom, an Outside Broadcast (OB) vehicle, and a Dolby Atmos student-run cinema, you'll have access to everything you need to succeed.
Our state-of-the-art virtual production stage—an innovation popularised by Disney’s The Mandalorian and featured in blockbusters like The Batman —will equip you with the skills to excel in the future of film and TV production.
A professional quality suite for applying the finishing touches to the colour of films before distribution.
Solent has a variety of post-production facilities in classroom and bookable edit suite configurations.
Produce news for TV, radio, web and print in our industry-reflective newsroom and live on location.
Our outside broadcast capabilities are based around our flagship fully-equipped OB vehicle.
Eight radio studios using software and hardware for multi-voice recording and creating on pre-recorded radio shows and podcasts.
Studio B is the main film studio - a dedicated acoustically treated space that can be configured as required for set building and filming.
Three fully functioning high definition multi-camera studios, complete with broadcast standard equipment.
Graduating students from Southampton Solent University's Department of Film and Media have made two impactful short films.
29 awards were awarded to graduating students from Solent's Department of Film and Media, as they get set to kickstart their careers.
TV Production students get onto the track at the British Rally Championship to gain experience of working at live sporting events
Many of our degrees carry accreditations or are supported by skills bodies.
We have Screen Skills-accredited degrees, degrees supported by The Rookies, BJTC-accredited degrees, and more.
At the Department of Film and Media, we believe in providing our students with ample opportunities.
While earning a degree is important, we focus on preparing you for the workplace.
You'll gain plenty of experience working with clients during your studies, helping you feel confident and ready for the industry.
We offer various environments where you can network with employers, interact with industry professionals, and build your professional portfolio.
Our goal is for you to graduate with a CV that meets workplace expectations.
Solent Productions and Solent TV are in-house production agencies that give you the chance to gain real-world work experience.
You can work on live projects, build your professional showreel, and collaborate with clients on real briefs.
We also have strong links with major industry players like the BBC, ITV, Sky, Warner Bros, and Disney.
These connections provide opportunities for internships, guest lectures, and networking events, helping you make valuable contacts in the industry
Solent boasts a network of successful graduates who have gone on to work for top organisations such as the BBC, ITV, Sky, Warner Bros, Disney, and more.
This network can be a great resource for mentorship and career advice.
Our film and TV degrees offer a steady development of skills over three years.
You'll learn key skills like directing, screenwriting, and cinematography.
Not everyone will excel in or want to pursue all these areas, so you'll have the chance to specialise based on your interests.
Our teaching team provides extensive consultation, guidance, and support to help you make these decisions.
We teach our degrees in a very hands-on and practical way.
Understanding the theory behind the practice is crucial, as we want you to know why certain approaches are taken in the workplace.
However, it's equally important that you can apply these methods practically.
We encourage risk-taking, making mistakes, and learning from experiences.
More than half of what you do will be practical work, ensuring you're comfortable showing what you can do rather than just talking about it.
At Southampton Solent University, our students benefit from a highly practical learning experience, which is a key factor in our excellent employment rates.
Most assessments are not conducted through exams.
Across the whole department only a few modules have any exam content.
Instead, the majority of assessments are portfolio-based coursework projects, both individual and group work.
Since our degrees feed into the creative industries, you'll often work as part of a team, making collaboration skills essential.
Being a self-starter and meeting deadlines are also key responsibilities.
A producer oversees a project and, depending on the size of the production, may handle everything from coordinating scriptwriters, directors, actors, and crew to managing business operations like budgets and distribution.
A producer’s role is hugely varied but broadly organisational – making sure everything runs smoothly.
In pre-production, they might liaise with financiers or arrange everything from cast and crew to shooting locations and filming permits.
During shooting, they help keep things on track, solving problems that might delay or derail the shoot.
After production, they might work with distributors and marketing teams to get the film out into the world, arrange festival runs, and more.
A journalist tells people what’s going on in the world.
They research, explore, uncover, and investigate, offering insight, opinion, or factual analysis of current, past, or even future events.
Journalists present these stories to the public through digital or traditional print media.
Their work involves conducting interviews, fact-checking, and writing articles or reports to inform and engage the audience.
We have some great societies for film, TV and media students.
Film Production Society: perfect for anyone interested in making movies, this society lets you collaborate on film projects, learn new techniques, and showcase your work.
Solent Cinema: if you're into film production and want to work on movie projects, this society is for you.
It's a great way to meet like-minded people and gain hands-on experience.
Radio Sonar: this is the student-led radio station where you can get involved in radio broadcasting and production.
It's a fantastic opportunity to develop your skills and create your own shows.
Sonar Events: an award-winning TV and live events society.
If you love working on set, filming sports, lighting a music studio, or mixing a live event, this is the place for you.
They offer training and hands-on experience in various aspects of TV and live event production
Solent Stage: if you're into musical theatre, this society is perfect for getting involved in productions and performances.
It's a great way to showcase your talent and gain stage experience.
Solent Video Games Society: for those who love gaming, this society offers a space to play and discuss video games with fellow enthusiasts.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/health-and-medical-science:
With the government’s commitment to deliver 50,000 more nurses, there are many opportunities to carve out a career in care.
And the growing importance of exercise and nutrition as the foundation for wellbeing, with the need to protect and support vulnerable people in the community, means there are many other rewarding careers in the public health, social work and wellness sectors.
With health high on the agenda for the general population, you can be confident that you will be joining a community of academics at Solent who have a wealth of experience that puts you in the best place to start your professional career.
Showing 19 courses that fit your criteria
You've viewed 6 of 19 courses
Registered Nursing Associate
Our facilities include a six-bed simulated nursing ward with a bathroom and kitchen, reflecting acute patient care.
The community area features a waiting room, GP consultation room, treatment room, and care home room.
We also have specialised nutrition teaching facilities for hands-on experience in a teaching kitchen.
Our two teaching labs are fully equipped for microbiological, biochemical, molecular biology, and cell biology work.
The sports complex boasts a multi-use sports hall, a performance hall with seating for 500, a community gym, CASES-accredited physiology and biomechanics labs, a sport and exercise psychology lab, a high-performance gym, and a sport and exercise therapy floor with three clinic spaces.
The lab contains a six-bed acute ward, plus bathroom, kitchen, waiting room and three community care rooms.
Solent students set out the future of healthcare to an international audience earlier this year
The Institute of Biomedical Science has reaccredited Southampton Solent University for a further five years.
A new biomedical science laboratory has opened at East Park Terrace.
Agnes Agyepong, founder and CEO of Global Black Maternal Health, has been awarded an Honorary Doctorate at Solent University.
Your application should highlight your passion for health and medical sciences and any relevant experience you have.
Include details about any science subjects you've studied, any work experience or volunteering in healthcare settings, and your enthusiasm for helping others.
Make sure to showcase your dedication and interest in the field.
Many of our health and medical sciences courses are accredited or endorsed by professional bodies such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), the Chartered Institute for Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA), and the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
This ensure that the courses meet high industry standards and enhance graduates' employability.
To work as a nurse in the UK, you need a degree in nursing.
Once you graduate, you must be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
For your degree, you need to choose a nursing specialism: adult, children, mental health, or learning disability.
Entry requirements for nursing degree courses typically include at least two (usually three) A-levels or equivalent qualifications at level 3, such as T levels or BTECs, plus supporting GCSEs including English, maths, and a science (usually biology or human biology).
The course includes 2,300 hours of clinical practice as a work experience placement.
Students work with partner NHS Trusts, hospice services, primary care, prison services, nursing homes, and the private sector, gaining valuable real-world experience.
Solent has strong relationships with practitioners and partnerships with the NHS and other health and social care providers.
These connections provide students with top-quality placements and real-world experience, preparing them for successful careers in the health and medical sciences field.
We have an applied and hands-on approach to learning.
You'll gain practical experience through professional placements and applied practice, working with teams, athletes, and the public.
This real-world experience is invaluable for building skills and confidence.
We have strong relationships with practitioners and partnerships with the NHS and other health and social care providers.
These connections provide you with top-quality placements and real-world experience, preparing you for successful careers in the health and medical sciences field.
Solent encourages students to get involved in research projects, working on real-world issues in areas like rehabilitation, nutrition, and exercise science.
This hands-on research experience is a great way to apply classroom knowledge and make a difference in the community.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/law-and-criminology:
Become a versatile professional, equipped with the skills, mindset, and practical experience needed to thrive in the ever-evolving fields of law and criminology.
Our law programmes provide you with the practical skills and knowledge needed to excel in a variety of legal careers, from corporate law to public service.
And if you're passionate about understanding crime and justice and aspire to make a difference in society, our criminology degrees are an ideal choice.
You'll explore diverse topics, including the criminal justice system, victimology, cybercrime, and youth justice.
With strong industry connections and a focus on real-world applications, our courses prepare you to navigate the complexities of the legal and criminology fields with confidence.
LLM
LLB (Hons)
Solicitor and Accredited Mediator
Practice law in our realistic courtroom setting.
Access extensive legal resources, including journals, case law, and online materials.
Utilise professional-grade equipment for criminology studies, such as experimental cubicles as well as psycho-physiological recording and eye-tracking technology.
The Library hosts a dedicated law collection, plus an excellent collection of subscriber law databases giving access both on and off campus.
Solent's specially equipped moot room mimics the key features of a real-life court room.
Inspiring justice system reformer, Lady Edwina Grosvenor has become an honorary Doctor of Law at Southampton Solent University.
Solent Law Clinic, a free service offering housing and family legal advice, has now supported more than 100 clients.
Criminology students are raising money to meet young women in Cambodia, who they have been mentoring online.
Southampton Solent University has launched Solent Law Clinic - a new service for the community.
Some courses might also ask for specific subjects like English (for law degrees) or sociology or psychology (for criminology courses), so make sure to check the course details.
As a law student you’ll develop a range of skills, from teamwork to organisation to commercial awareness.
But the core skills of a successful legal professional are in written and verbal communication, your ability to think critically and creatively in solving problems and your attention to detail – spotting loopholes, choosing your words carefully and picking up on minor details that make a big difference.
Research skills, like conducting thorough legal research to support your cases and arguments, and interpersonal skills, such as working well with clients, colleagues, and other stakeholders, will also help you succeed in your studies and prepare you for a career in law.
Solent has modern facilities for law and criminology students.
You'll get to use a mock courtroom, which is perfect for practicing your advocacy skills, and a portable crime scene setup for honing your investigation techniques.
There are also dedicated study spaces and a well-stocked library with all the law and criminology resources you'll need to ace your exams.
Solent has strong links with the legal industry and the criminal justice sector, so you'll have plenty of opportunities to gain work experience.
This could be through internships, placements, or even pro bono work with local law firms and volunteering with law enforcement and community organisations.
Graduates from Solent's law courses have gone on to work in various roles as solicitors, barristers, legal advisors, and paralegals.
Meanwhile, graduates from Solent's criminology courses have gone on to become police officers, probation officers, crime analysts, and youth justice workers.
The University's focus on practical skills and strong industry connections helps you get job-ready and stand out to employers.
Yes!
There are several societies you can join, like the Law Society, where you can meet other students, attend events, and participate in moot court competitions.
It's a great way to make friends, build your network, and have fun while you're at uni.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/maritime:
Launch your career in maritime.
The maritime industry is the backbone of international commerce, with shipping responsible for approximately 90% of all global trade.
Whether you’re interested in a role at sea or more focused on shoreside opportunities, there’s scope for a huge range of rewarding roles and careers across maritime business, shipping, education and naval architecture.
Hugely respected in the industry, our programmes and courses at Solent cover subjects as diverse as marine underwriting and maritime law; shipping and port management; deck (navigation), engineering and electro-technical officer cadetship programmes; maritime education and training; and yacht design.
With over 70 years serving the maritime industry, our Warsash Maritime School is known the world over and enjoys the active support and engagement of alumni from and working in more than 70 nations.
HND
We’ve invested more than £43 million in maritime training facilities and an additional £5 million through the South Coast Institute of Technology (IoT) to ensure students have access to the very best resources.
Facilities include the UK’s largest ship and port simulation centre, a dedicated fire school, and the nation’s only ship handling centre at Timsbury Lake.
The University also boasts a composite materials lab; mechanical, electronic engineering and yacht design workshops; a 60-metre towing tank; and a four-metre static stability tank—tools trusted by industry leaders and students alike.
The engine room simulator is set up to replicate a real ship's engine room using touchscreen technology and low voltage switchboard with real 440V breakers.
Our purpose built fire school provides a realistic but safe environment in which seafarers can learn the vital techniques of fighting fires at sea.
A facility to provide essential training for those travelling to and from offshore installations by helicopter.
Real time simulation of the process control system used in the storage and transfer of hazardous bulk liquid cargoes
Purpose-built and fully-equipped for teaching the use of machine tools, welding, and electrical maintenance for marine engineers.
The medical centre uses the same type of equipment as found on board ship for mandatory medical training for ships' officers.
The pier head is used for maritime safety training for seafarers and safety training for those working on offshore installations.
The centre provides mandatory radio operations training for deck officers on large ships and on superyachts.
A fully-equipped facility allowing deck officers to undertake mandatory efficient deck hand training.
Timsbury Lake is the home of our scaled model ship handling centre which provides specialist training for pilots, masters and senior ship's officers.
Annual maritime awards presented in recognition of outstanding performances
Warsash Maritime School helps intrepid adventurers take on the World’s Toughest Row
Warsash Women's Group is providing a peer-to-peer support network for officer cadets at Solent.
Our maritime courses are ideally suited for those who already are or wish to work in the maritime industry – either serving at sea in the merchant navy aboard commercial and leisure vessels, or in shore-based roles managing key aspects of international shipping.
Our cadetship programmes, which are available up to full (Hons) degree level, provide the essential training, qualifications and certification to serve as a Deck (navigation), Engineering or Marine Electro-Technical officer at sea on vessels ranging from cargo to cruise ships.
Normally the first post-certification appointment for a former officer cadet, the third officer undertakes bridge or engineering watchkeeping duties and understudies the second officer.
Third officers are also typically responsible for making sure that firefighting equipment and lifeboats are in order.
Our degree-level top-up courses enable qualified seafarers to progress to more senior roles by developing valuable business, leadership and problem-solving skills as part of a degree-level qualification.
These courses are particularly suited to those who wish to transition to shore-side careers in maritime or other STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) orientated industries.
Selecting from our undergraduate and postgraduate maritime business courses opens doors to shore-based office roles spanning management, operations, finance, legal and insurance.
Maritime business alumni have gone on to develop very successful careers in some of the industry’s most significant organisations world-wide including Bibby; Allports; Braemar Seascope; Galbraiths London; Lloyd’s Register; Odjfjell Tankers; Cargill; Carnival UK; Ince & Co (Admiralty Law office); Baltic line; DP World; UK P&I Club; Sustainable Shipping Initiative; the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and DHL.
Our yacht design courses are hugely respected world-wide with members of our alumni having gone on to work for prestigious companies such as Laurent Giles Naval Architects, Sunseeker Yachts, Humphries Yacht Design, Monaco Marine, Viareggio Shipyards, and Incat Crowther Design.
100% of employed graduates who responded to the HESA Graduate Outcomes survey (from 2021 to 2024) were in high-skilled roles just 15 months after graduation.
The latest addition to our maritime portfolio is MSc Maritime Education and Training.
It’s a course specially designed for educators or trainers who want to develop their pedagogic practice and specialise in maritime education.
It also addresses international maritime conventions and their application in the classroom.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/music-and-performing-arts:
You’re passionate about a career in the performance industry.
That’s clear.
And it’s more than a hobby.
You want to make a living out of it.
There are a wide range of career options in this sector - and our graduates prove it.
Are you an aspiring musician, performing artist, content creator or business executive looking for a sustainable career in the creative industries?
We can help you to develop your skills, whether it’s performing, recording, broadcasting, managing or promoting in this ever-evolving sector.
Digital Marketing and Creative Manager
Take your skills to the next level with our industry-standard performing arts and music facilities.
Our performing arts spaces include versatile rehearsal rooms and a 64-seat flexi-form performance space, perfect for live shows.
You'll also have access to HD cameras, radio suites, and multi-camera television studios to enhance your learning experience.
Our cutting-edge music facilities feature professional digital recording studios, audio production suites, and fully equipped rehearsal rooms with high-quality instruments.
You'll work with advanced IT software suites to create, edit, and manage websites, music, magazines, podcasts, and videos.
Additionally, you'll have the chance to gain hands-on experience using Solent’s outside broadcasting equipment at live events, preparing you for real-world industry opportunities.
The studio contains state-of-the-art digital software and hardware for the creation of electronic dance music, allowing students to be creative and gain practical knowledge of the numerous pieces of hardware devices.
Rehearsal rooms for musicians to work on their material for gigs and assessments.
Fully-equipped music studio with industry-leading technology.
All recording studios and workstations run industry-leading software, complemented by a live rooms with drum kit, guitar amp and keyboard.
The 2025 National Student Survey results have highlighted the positive experiences of students in the Department of Art and Music.
Students from Solent's Department of Art and Music showed off their talent at a recent event in the city.
Parallel has celebrated a successful second year after music professionals come together at Solent's city-centre campus.
You'll generally need around 104 UCAS points from at least two A-levels or equivalent qualifications.
Some courses might also ask for an audition or a portfolio, so be ready to show off your skills!
You'll get a mix of practical performance skills and theory.
Expect vocational training in acting techniques, vocal coaching, stagecraft, sound design, mixing and mastering.
The courses include a mix of lectures and seminars, tutorials, workshops, and hands-on projects such as rehearsals, studio sessions and live performances to give you a well-rounded education.
The university has strong ties with the industry, so you'll get chances to work with established theatre companies, perform live, and gain real-world experience.
Plus, Southampton's arts scene is buzzing with places like Mayflower and MAST theatres, TSE Productions, City Eye, and The Joiners where you can showcase your talent.
We have some great societies for music and performing arts students.
You can join Solent Stage , which is perfect if you're into musical theatre and want to get involved in productions and performances.
There's also Radio Sonar, where you can try your hand at radio broadcasting and production, and Solent Cinema , if you're interested in film production and want to work on movie projects.
These societies are a great way to meet like-minded people, gain extra experience, and have a lot of fun while you're at uni.
Plus, if you don't find a society that fits your interests, you can always start your own!

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/psychology-sociology-and-education:
If you have a deep curiosity about human behaviour and a desire to make a positive impact on individuals’ lives, our courses are perfect for you.
With our contemporary degrees, we’ll empower you with transferable skills that can lead to success in various career paths.
At Solent, we go beyond offering lifelong learning skills – our curriculum is designed to enhance your employability.
Our degrees are tailored to meet the demands of industries worldwide, be it teaching, psychology, sociology, human rights, or criminal justice.
Employers highly value the skills you’ll develop throughout our programmes, ensuring you are well prepared for a fulfilling career in your chosen field to shape the lives of others.
Individual Giving and Relationships Manager
You’ll have access to our range of specialist facilities, providing a practical learning environment and access to state-of the-art resources to help you make the most of your time with us.
Our psychology laboratory consists of five purpose-built research rooms in various sizes to suit anything from individual participant research to focus groups.
These rooms allow psychology students to collect data from human participants using the same resources as professional psychologists.
You can carry out cognitive and psycho-physiological investigations by using a sophisticated eye tracker to trace eye positions on a computer screen.
You’ll also have access to our BIOPAC consoles and virtual reality environments to measure the participant’s physiological reactions such as heart rate and skin conductivity; and adult intelligence scales to interview recording basics; and experimental cubicles.
Purpose built laboratories and research rooms equipped with industry standard resources for gathering data.
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Psychology student, Olivia Venditto is celebrating the success of a collaboration with the British Army.
Dr Karen Burnell is contributing to a key project to help those impacted by the war in Ukraine.
New research by Dr David Galley, Course Leader Social Work at Solent, provides insights into gender balance in social work.
Final-year BA (Hons) Social Work students showcase their final research projects to industry practitioners, alumni and more.
Psychologists analyse the thoughts, feelings, and behaviours of individuals.
They work in various settings, including education, healthcare, crime, sport and exercise, social services, therapy, and counselling.
Psychologists use their expertise to help people understand and manage their mental health and well-being.
Yes, our psychology courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS).
This means the courses meet high standards and can help you on your path to becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
Yes, our courses offer various hands-on experiences to help you apply what you learn in real-life situations and build valuable skills for your future career:
You'll explore how societies work and how social issues like inequality, crime, and culture impact people's lives.
The course covers topics like social theory, research methods, and contemporary social issues, giving you a broad understanding of the field.
You'll explore how children and young people learn, focusing on the latest child development practices.
The course covers everything from classroom management to educational psychology, preparing you for a variety of roles in the education sector.
You'll have a personal tutor who provides pastoral support and helps you make the most of your learning experience.
The university also offers academic support, including workshops and one-on-one sessions to help you succeed.
This will depend on the placement you find, but the majority are unpaid.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/subjects/sport-and-fitness:
A sporting career for life.
You’re keen, committed and have an aptitude for sport and fitness.
Now you want the skills and qualifications to kickstart your career in this stimulating sector.
With an international reputation, outstanding links at every level of the industry and gold-standard facilities, we’re in prime position to get you exactly where you need to be.
Whether you’re aiming for a career in football, sport science, sport and exercise therapy, coaching, health and nutrition, or management, our degrees offer the skills and industry connections to turn your ambitions into reality.
Showing 15 courses that fit your criteria
You've viewed 6 of 15 courses
Practical work experience is at the heart of our degrees and you’ll benefit from our strong community and industry links.
Our cutting-edge sports complex boasts dedicated teaching spaces, multiple sports halls, a high-performance gym, a 150-capacity teaching gym, and three spacious sport and exercise therapy clinical spaces.
You'll also benefit from our BASES-accredited physiology lab and purpose-built biomechanics lab, equipped with industry-standard technology.
Our multi-million-pound Test Park football centre boasts a full-sized all-weather 3G pitch, an FA Step 5 football arena, a modern teaching space and rugby pitches.
State of the art consultancy room used by the likes of Southampton FC and Hampshire County Cricket.
Accredited by CASES, our physiology laboratory is equipped with the latest equipment used for physiological and biomechanical assessment.
Our modern sports therapy treatment suites create a great space for teaching and learning.
These large spacious rooms are equipped with couches and various sports therapy equipment for treatment and rehabilitation.
A fully-equipped, purpose-built gym used for teaching our health and fitness programmes.
Our multi-million-pound outdoor sports complex hosts practical teaching activities and a range of other recreational and competitive sporting opportunities.
BA (Hons) Sports Journalism graduate, Will Hewlett, will be a Rising Host at this year's The Hundred.
Four class of 2025 graduates were nominated for the coveted CIMSPA Prize for Sport Coaching.
Our courses are all about giving you real-world experience.
You'll get to do everything from short visits to week-long events to get a feel for the industry.
Some courses even have placement modules where you can spend a few weeks working in sports, health, or education settings.
If you want to dive deeper, you can do a year-long placement between your second and third years.
This means working full-time in places like sports clubs, health providers, or other relevant industries, which is great for boosting your career prospects.
We mix in-person and online learning to give you the best of both worlds.
On campus, you'll join seminars, workshops, practical sessions, lab work, and guest lectures.
Plus, you'll have access to our virtual learning platform for extra resources.
We also offer guided learning activities to help you build your employability skills, bridging the gap between theory and practice.
CIMSPA stands for the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity.
A CIMSPA-endorsed degree meets their professional standards, making sure you get the skills and knowledge that employers are looking for.
This endorsement helps you stand out and be "work-ready" for jobs in the sport and physical activity sector.
An SST-accredited degree, like our BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy, meets the standards set by the Society of Sports Therapists (SST), the leading UK organisation for sports therapy.
These standards are regularly reviewed to ensure exceptional training quality.
As a student, you'll get SST membership, which includes placement insurance, and after you graduate, you'll be eligible for full membership.
This is a big plus for your career in sports therapy.
We’re one of 32 BASES Outreach Hubs in the country.
The BASES Undergraduate Endorsement Scheme (BUES) recognises sport and exercise science degrees that prepare you well for the profession.
Our BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science is BASES-endorsed, meaning it meets high standards for knowledge, technical skills, and professional development.
This endorsement shows that our course is top quality and signifies that practitioners are qualified to work safely, effectively, and independently as sport and exercise scientists.
Our sports complex is packed with great facilities, including affordable gym memberships for all students.
We've got two sports halls, a modern public gym, a high-performance gym, a teaching gym, and three sport and exercise therapy clinical spaces.
You'll also have access to our BASES-accredited physiology lab and a biomechanics lab with industry-grade tech.
Plus, our Test Park football centre has a full-size 3G pitch, a floodlit FA-level football pitch, and more.
Our physiology lab is BASES-accredited, making it one of the top labs in the UK.
It's used by teams like Hampshire County Cricket, Team GB Wheelchair Rugby, and AFC Totton.
In our biomechanics lab, you'll use state-of-the-art equipment like the Vicon 3D motion capture system, force plates, and a portable EMG system.
Our Sport Excellence Programme supports talented athletes through the TASS Dual-Career route.
This programme is tailored to your sporting talent and academic potential, with a team to help you balance uni and competing.
You'll get strength and conditioning sessions, sport therapy, psychology and nutrition support, lab testing, workshops, and up to £5,000 in bursaries.
No matter your level, there's a sport for you at Solent.
We've got over 35 sports clubs and societies, from snow sports and sailing to hockey and American football.
More than 600 students take part in sports each year.
Some clubs compete in the BUCS league, and you can also play recreational sports in our modern complex.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-policies-and-legal-information/financial-information:
The University receives income from many sources, but by far the largest sum is from tuition fees.
Income is used to fund all of the day-to-day activities of the University, including the provision of teaching and support to our students, both through the academic departments they register with and the services that they are able to access (library, learning resources, sports facilities).
The funds are also used to enable longer-term investment projects, ensuring the estate and facilities are up to date, and providing student bursaries.
For a more detailed breakdown of what we spend money on, view our income and expenditure infographic or read our financial statements, below.
Financial statements 2023/24
Financial statements 2022/23
Financial statements 2021/22
Financial statements 2020/21
Financial statements 2019/20
Financial statements 2018/19
Financial statements 2017/18
Financial statements 2016/17
Financial statements 2015/16
Financial statements 2014/15
Financial statements 2013/14
Financial statements 2012/13
Financial statements 2011/12
Financial statements 2010/11

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/open-days/clearing-open-days:
Applying to Solent through Clearing?
Our Clearing open days are the perfect way to find out what being a student here at Solent is like.
Our Clearing open days give you an opportunity to find out more about how apply through Clearing and speak to our Clearing team.
Explore our friendly and welcoming campus and discover our amazing facilities.
You can also talk to current students, as well as our accommodation, admissions and Student Hub teams.
And if you can't attend an on-campus open day, or would prefer to learn about Solent at home, we hold some open days virtually, as well as an on-demand open day.
You may be eligible to apply for an Amazon voucher towards travel costs.
We’re delighted to have achieved triple gold for student experience, for student outcomes, and overall - the highest standard in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) review.
Gold recognises that our student experience and student outcomes are typically outstanding.
Southampton plays host to over four million visitors a year and boasts an impressive cultural offering, from museums, music venues and art galleries, to award winning parks and the general hustle and bustle of a diverse city with fantastic shopping facilities
Our on-demand virtual open days have all the information you will find at an on-campus open day at the touch of a button.
You'll be able to hear from our student ambassadors about their experience of being a student at Solent, from studying, to student support, and living in Southampton.
You'll also be able to listen to pre-recorded course talks, hosted by the academic teams, that will give you an insight into your chosen course.
We have videos on student finance, student support, applying, and the student experience.
And to complete the package - take a virtual tour of our campus and our excellent facilities, and see where you could be living on a virtual tour of our student accommodation.
Why not attend a campus tour.
You'll be guided around the campus by one of our student ambassadors and shown the main facilities.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply/undergraduate-applications:
If you're applying for an undergradaute degree Solent University and need some more information on what to do next, you'll find it here.
All students applying for the first year of a full-time undergraduate course must apply through UCAS.
Initial application guidance and course information can be found on the UCAS website.
After you've submitted your application online through UCAS, the University will consider the information provided and whether a place on your chosen course can be offered.
There are two types of offers:
Conditional: The offer is subject to you completing and passing various exams or providing proof of your qualifications.
Unconditional: You've already achieved, and provided evidence of, the necessary qualifications to meet our entry requirements.
Search through Solent University's industry-focused degrees, and find the perfect course for you.
Not sure about what Clearing is or how to apply?
We've got the guide for you!
Check out our Clearing ultimate guide today.
We accept applications for those wishing to transfer from another institution.
We advise that you apply through UCAS and once you have done so, email copies of your university transcripts to admissions@solent.ac.uk .
A successful transfer into year two or three of one of our degrees is dependent on the course you are applying for and the relevancy of the course you are transferring from.
There may also be additional entry requirements that you must meet, such as minimum GCSE grades.
Your application will usually be reviewed by the academic team before a decision is made.
If you have any questions, please contact the Admission and Enrolment Team at 023 8201 5066 or admissions@solent.ac.uk .
If you're applying from overseas, have a look at our page with advice and information for international students.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply/postgraduate-applications:
If you're applying for a postgraduate degree Solent University and need some more information on what to do next, you'll find it here.
Ready to apply for your postgraduate programme?
You'll find all the information you'll need here.
You'll apply directly to Solent University and our admissions team will handle your application along with our course teams.
when you apply to join us as a postgraduate, we'll consider your application on its own merits – whatever your academic or professional background.
Solent's postgraduate conversion courses offer a great opportunity to study a subject that can complement your undergraduate course, even if it's in a different area to what you have previously studied.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply/undergraduate-or-postgraduate:
Most undergraduate students will have completed further education studies in the form of A-levels, BTECs or equivalent qualifications.
You're an undergraduate student if you are studying for your first degree - usually a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or Bachelor of Science (BSc).
Undergraduate degrees provide a grounding in a subject and typically last for three years, however it's also possible to study for an accelerated degree over two years, which includes a mandatory paid work placement.
Find out more about the different types of degrees .
If you don’t have the grades for your chosen degree, or if you’re not sure what you’d like to study, a foundation year gives you an alternative route into studying for an undergraduate degree.
This is an extra year that gives you the opportunity to learn more about the subject before moving on to the full degree.
It’s a direct path on to an undergraduate degree and will provide you with the necessary skills for the course.
Find out more about our foundation years .
Applications to enrol on an undergraduate degree are made through UCAS .
Postgraduate courses cover higher-level study, including master's degrees, doctorates (PhDs) and postgraduate diplomas.
These typically require you to have completed an undergraduate degree, often with 2:2 honours or higher, before you can study them.
Types of master’s degree include:
A master’s degree is the most common type of academic postgraduate qualification following an undergraduate degree.
Depending on the subject and study content, it can be classified in a variety of ways including as an MA, MSc, MBA, MRes, or LLM.
It can be taught, research based (MRes) or a combination of the two.
Some programmes are studied ‘in person’, others may be via distance-learning.
All are designed to enable the development of in-depth knowledge and expertise in a particular subject.
Most, though not all, master’s courses require you to write an in-depth thesis, or conduct a personal research project.
Master’s qualifications are often studied full-time over 12 months, but some can be studied part-time over two years.
Undertaking a master’s generally requires more independent study and personal commitment than studying an undergraduate programme.
A postgraduate diploma, sometimes written as a PGDip, PgDIP, or PG Dip, is at the same academic level as a master’s degree, but is a third shorter.
This is because it generally doesn’t include the final research project required by a master’s.
Postgraduate diplomas are suitable for those wanting something straight after their undergraduate studies and for professionals seeking to enhance their skills or move into a particular profession.
Because it is shorter than a master’s degree, it can be an excellent option for those who don’t have the financial means to pay for a master’s.
If you decide to pursue a short postgraduate qualification such as a PGDip and then to continue your studies, you may achieve a master’s qualification by studying an academic postgraduate ‘top up’.
Usually a full-time semester-long qualification, successful completion can lead to a full master’s qualification (if you pass all the necessary academic requirements).
An MPhil or PhD are typically undertaken after studying a master’s degree.
An MPhil is an advanced master's based on research, taking from 18 months to four years.
An MPhil can be a standalone qualification or be used to continue onto a PhD.
PhDs can take from three to four years full-time or seven years part-time.
They require students to conduct independent research in their specialist subject area, which will be considered as original research, worthy of publication in an academic journal or book.
You do not have to study for a postgraduate qualification immediately after finishing your bachelor's degree.
Many people opt for further study after they have begun working in their chosen field, particularly if it could enhance their career prospects, or if they wish to move into or specialise in a particular area of work.
All applications to enrol on postgraduate courses are made directly to the University.
Links to apply can be found on each individual postgraduate course page .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply/entry-requirements:
Below is a guide to the standard entry requirement criteria for a selection of qualifications.
Solent University accepts a variety of qualifications.
Applications for undergraduate study are made via UCAS and require you to have reached a certain amount of UCAS tariff points, which you can find more information about below.
For postgraduate study, applications are made directly to the University and usually require you to have achieved an honours degree at a certain level.
If you are an international student, you can find more information here:
Advice for international students
The majority of our undergraduate courses require you to have studied at least two A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
To view course-specific entry requirements, please visit the relevant course page on the UCAS website or find your course on the Solent website .
UCAS also has a tariff calculator to help you calculate your points.
If you require any more information, please contact admissions@solent.ac.uk .
The University will accept T Levels on their own for foundation entry and Level 4 (year 1) entry.
T Levels are awarded the following points:
The grade required will depend on the specific entry requirements for the course.
If you're thinking of applying for a postgraduate degree at Solent University, you can find the entry requirements on your selected course page and apply directly from there.
In some cases, we will also consider candidates with alternative qualifications or related professional experience.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance/scholarships:
Scholarships are a reward given to applicants based on final results and accumulate, as per the examples below.
Scholarships will be awarded via a tuition fee reduction to the cost of a student’s full annual course fee.
Any student is only eligible for one scholarship type in any single academic year.
For more information on any of the scholarships mentioned here, please contact admissions@solent.ac.uk .
This year Southampton Solent University celebrates its 20th anniversary as a degree awarding University.
To celebrate, we are offering a £2,500 fee reduction to all international fee-paying students joining our September 2025 postgraduate courses .
This award can be held alongside the Solent Postgraduate Taught International Excellence Scholarship.
Students must apply for a full-time course in any postgraduate taught discipline for September 2025 entry.
This award cannot be deferred.
There is no application process.
All students will be automatically considered during the application process and awarded this fee reduction, if eligible.
Please refer to our student fees and finance section for further information.
All international fee-paying students applying for postgraduate taught courses with minimum duration of 12 months for September 2025 entry will be automatically assessed for this £2,500 fee reduction award.
View our postgraduate taught courses
This award cannot be held alongside any other scholarships.
This award will be applied to the CAS and will be applied prior to enrolment.
There is no deadline for this award - all international postgraduate applicants will be considered as part of the application process.
For further information on your application, please contact admissions.international@solent.ac.uk .
If you're applying from an EU nation, with EU nationality, for an undergraduate course starting in September 2025, you may be eligible for the Solent EU Welcome Scholarship (Fee Discount).
Here’s everything you need to know:
This scholarship is automatically available to undergraduate students with EU nationality, applying from an EU country for the 2025/26 academic year.
It reduces your tuition fees to £10,500 per year - this includes foundation years.
Please note that fees may increase in future academic years if the UK government raises the standard home fee above £10,500 per year.
Good news!
There’s no separate application process.
If you’re eligible, the fee discount will automatically be applied when you submit your application.
It will appear as part of your offer during the application process.
There’s no specific deadline for this scholarship - it will be assessed automatically when you apply for an undergraduate course.
If you have questions or need further guidance, feel free to reach out to us at admissions.international@solent.ac.uk .
You can also visit our student fees and finance section for additional details.
The Solent Postgraduate Taught International Excellence Scholarship recognises strong academic performance in a bachelor’s degree prior to commencing studies at Southampton Solent University.
Available to international postgraduate taught applicants applying for January 2025, May 2025 and September 2025 entry, the scholarship offers a £1,500 fee reduction , automatically awarded to eligible international students who achieve a 2:1 equivalency in their previous academic degree (minimum bachelors).
Students must apply for a full-time course in any postgraduate taught discipline for January 2025, May 2025 or September 2025 entry.
All students will be automatically considered during the application process and awarded this scholarship if eligible.
All international fee paying students applying for postgraduate taught courses with minimum duration of 12 months for January 2025, May 2025 and September 2025 entry, will be automatically assessed for this award.
Applicants must have achieved a 2:1 equivalent in their bachelor's or master's degree to be eligible for this award.
This award can be held alongside the Solent 20th Anniversary September Study Scholarship .
There is no deadline for this award, all international postgraduate applicants will be considered as part of the application process.
The Solent International Pioneers Scholarship recognises strong academic contribution and ambition ahead of commencing a bachelor’s degree at Southampton Solent University.
Available competitively to international undergraduate applicants applying for September 2025 entry, the scholarship offers a £2,000 fee reduction on the first-year tuition fee to students successful in the scholarship application process.
We will be awarding 25 Solent International Pioneers Scholarships for the September 2025 intake.
Students must have applied and hold an offer for a full-time course in any undergraduate discipline for September 2025 entry.
View our undergraduate courses
All international fee-paying students applying for undergraduate courses with minimum duration of 12 months for September 2025 entry, are eligible to apply for this scholarship.
Completed applications will be assessed and scholarship applicants will be notified of outcomes in the week commencing 29 September 2025.
This award will not be applied to the CAS and will not be applied prior to enrolment.
This scholarship cannot be held alongside any other scholarships or fee discounts awarded by the University.
Students receiving sponsorship for their studies are not eligible for this scholarship.
You must be an undergraduate offer holder to apply for this award.
Applications must be submitted via the application form below, with all questions answered in the form and under word counts provided.
Apply now for the Solent International Pioneers Scholarship
Scholarship applications must be received by Friday 19 September 2025 at 12pm UK time.
To further enhance the support we provide for students in receipt of a contextual offer , students may also receive a one-off contextual offer scholarship upon enrolment.
This £500 scholarship aims to support eligible students with the cost of student living or course tuition fees.
There are 100 contextual offer scholarships available for the academic year 2025 - these are awarded on a first-come-first-served basis in the order the UCAS applications are received.
The contextual offer scholarship is awarded in the form of a £500* balance credit applied to the student's Solent University Everyday catering app account.
The Everyday app is used to purchase food and drink consumables from any of the University's catering outlets, including Costa Coffee and Starbucks.
* The contextual offer scholarship is a non-cash payment, is non means tested, and non-repayable.
It is available in addition to any other funding applicants may be eligible to receive (excluding other Solent University scholarships).
The University reserves the right to pro-rata this discount, should you suspend or withdraw from study during the academic year.
Students eligible for the contextual offer scholarship must:
Once you have been made a contextual offer by the University and have received a letter via the Solent University applicant portal confirming this, you do not need to do anything else apart from enrol on to the first year of your chosen undergraduate course.
After successfully enrolling on to your course, our Admissions Team will assess your eligibility for the scholarship and, if you meet the criteria, you will be contacted directly, informing you if you have been awarded the contextual offer scholarship and with information about the next steps you will need to take.
For more information about eligibility for our contextual offers and for answers to some frequently asked questions, visit our contextual offers page .
Our performance sport programme can be applied for by student-athletes competing at, or have the potential to compete at, national or international level.
The support package is delivered by a dedicated team who are fully committed to our student-athletes' development and sporting success.
This includes:
Find out more about the Sport Excellence Programme
We recognise that for many Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) students, the playing field for entry into university isn’t always level and this can be a barrier to students from these under-represented backgrounds reaching their potential.
For students applying for entry to our undergraduate courses, Solent University is offering the BAME Student Scholarship.
Applications for the BAME Scholarship for students joining us in September 2024 are closed.
We are now accepting applications for September 2025 entry.
These scholarships provide eligible first year undergraduate students, from specific ethnic backgrounds, £1,000 each to use towards their university tuition fees or the cost of student living.
The scholarship is awarded in the form of £1,000 which can be used by first-year undergraduate students in the following ways:
The scholarship is non means tested, non-repayable, and available in addition to any other government-related funding you may also be in receipt of.
Successful applicants for this one-off scholarship must meet the following criteria:
Have applied for and hold a firm acceptance, full-time undergraduate course offer from Solent University.
Have applied for this scholarship through the applicant portal .
Are a UK national with ‘home’ fee status who identifies as having one of the following categories of ethnicity:
To be considered for the BAME student scholarship, applicants holding a firm acceptance place (conditional or unconditional) on an undergraduate course at Solent University, starting in September 2024, must apply for this scholarship through the applicant portal .
You will need your applicant username and password to log in.
This will enable the University to link your UCAS application with your application for the scholarship.
Please note, there are a limited number of scholarships provided each year and these are awarded in the order completed forms are returned.
The scholarship is one of several initiatives we are undertaking as part of our Race Equality Charter and acts to address the gap in under-represented groups of students, as set out in our Access and Participation Plan.
This scholarship cannot be used in conjunction with any other scholarship, bursary or fee discount.
For further information about the scholarship, please email stepintosuccess@solent.ac.uk .
Solent University is committed to be a fair, diverse and cohesive University that challenges and tackles social inequality.
We aim to foster a community with a culture of welcome, mutual trust, fairness, harmony and respect.
Our vision is to transform the lives of people from all backgrounds, through learning that is relevant to the real world.
Our values create a university that is open to all, which celebrates different, and demonstrates a commitment to social justice and equality of opportunity
In support of our vision and values, each year Solent University awards one Solent Sanctuary Scholarship consisting of a full yearly fee waiver and a £3,000 grant to a person seeking sanctuary studying on a three-year undergraduate programme.
To be eligible for the Solent Sanctuary Scholarship, you need to meet the following criteria:
AND
All undergraduate programmes are open to Solent Sanctuary Scholarship applicants except BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice, BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing, foundation years, and apprenticeships.
Please be aware you are likely to be able to apply for a contextual offer, which is a scheme where applicants who meet certain criteria (including being a refugee) may receive lower entry offers than standard (based on their context and individual circumstances).
Those who meet the contextual offer criteria should apply through the usual UCAS process and should also use a self-declaration form if they feel they meet additional criteria.
Find out more about contextual offers .
For further information please contact Monika Materna-Brossier, International Student Adviser, at sanctuary@solent.ac.uk who will support you through the application process.
If you do not yet have a conditional or unconditional offer from Solent University, we can also support you with this process.
The Commonwealth Shared Scholarships Scheme is a joint initiative between the UK Department for International Development (DFID) and UK universities, including Southampton Solent University, to jointly support scholarships for students from developing Commonwealth countries who would not otherwise be able to study in the United Kingdom.
Students must apply for a full-time course in MSc Applied AI and Data Science or MSc Sustainable Building Design for September 2025 entry.
The award is financed jointly by the University and the DFID.
The award will cover:
Candidates must be nationals of the following countries:
Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Cameroon, Dominica, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, The, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, India, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Zambia
To apply for this scholarship, you must
Applications for 2025 entry open on 11 November 2024 and close on 12 December 2024.
We strongly encourage you to check the Commonwealth Shared Scholarships website for more information about this scholarship.
For more information about funding, graduation and awards at Southampton Solent University, please email international@solent.ac.uk .
The GREAT Scholarships is a new time-limited programme from the Study UK campaign.
The GREAT Scholarships for justice and law are jointly funded by Southampton Solent University with the UK government’s GREAT Britain campaign and the British Council.
This year, in partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign, Southampton Solent University is offering one scholarship of £10,000 to students in Nigeria.
This scholarship scheme is part of the GREAT Scholarships 2025 campaign, which has been launched by the British Council together with UK universities to support more students to access excellent UK higher education opportunities.
The GREAT Scholarships scheme offers an exciting opportunity for students from Nigeria to get financial support to pursue postgraduate study in the UK.
Students must apply for a full-time course in any Postgraduate discipline for September 2025 entry.
Students will be considered for a GREAT Scholarship at the time of submitting an online application for any Postgraduate discipline for September 2025 entry.
Visit your course page to apply online
When completing the online application, students will need to upload a 'GREAT Scholarship request' demonstrating the following:
You will be considered for a GREAT Scholarship if:
The deadline for applications is 1 June 2025.
Successful candidates will be notified by email by 30 June 2025 .
Once informed, students will have one week to accept the scholarship.
If they do not accept within this time, it will be offered to another qualified applicant.
For general information on the GREAT Scholarships 2025, please visit the British Council website .
Solent alumni could be eligible for a reduction of tuition fees if returning to study a postgraduate course.
Eligibility criteria and more information can be found on our discounted fees page .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country:
Here, we've provided information such as entry requirements, visas, and available scholarships specific to your country.
If you are interested in coming to study at Solent University as an exchange student, please find more information about our programme here .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/english-language-programmes:
If you need to improve your language skills to meet our English language requirements before starting your degree, we offer dedicated courses for that purpose.
You can also opt to study English alongside your degree programme.
Our pre-sessional English programme is tailored to help international students enhance their academic and English language skills before starting their undergraduate and postgraduate studies at Solent University.
This intensive course includes:
Find out more >
To help you succeed in your academic studies, we have a team of English for Academic Purposes (EAP) tutors who can help you develop your academic language and skills while you study for your degree.
The course covers topics such as:
The first five weeks of the programme focus on the key skills needed in academic writing.
While the primary focus will be on essays, the principles you'll learn also apply to reports and dissertations.
In the final two weeks, the focus shifts to spoken communication skills, especially for students looking to improve fluency, clarity, and accuracy in their speech.
These sessions will offer plenty of opportunities for group discussions on a variety of topics.
Email us to find out more >
The International Foundation Programme pathway programmes run by our partners, QA Higher Education are designed to help international students improve their academic and English language skills before undertaking undergraduate degree studies with Solent University.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration:
Most international students coming to the UK to study will require a visa.
The type of immigration permission you will need will depend on the length of your course and your nationality.
To find out what visa you may need, please use this self-assessment tool from the Government website .
For guidance on a standard visitor visa to study courses up to six months in duration, come for exams, or resubmission of work, please see our Visitor visa page.
If you are unsure please visit the Home Office ‘do I need a visa’ webpage.
This page provides advice on the Student visa.
If you don't need a visa to travel to the UK but you are not a British or Irish citizen, or have permission to live in the UK, you will need to apply for an ETA before travelling.
This video , produced by the UK Government, explains more about what an ETA is.
An ETA is valid for two years and is linked to your passport.
If you receive a new passport, you must apply for a new ETA.
It costs £10 and is issued within three days.
Apply online for an ETA
To apply for a visa from overseas you will need to create an account and apply online .
More information can be found on the UKCISA website .
Preparing your visa application can take a long time but you can submit your online application for a visa within six months of your course start date.
You should prepare all your documents in advance and submit your application as soon as possible.
You’ll usually get a decision on your visa within three weeks, but it can take much longer.
The purpose of a credibility interview is to check you are a genuine student.
Not everyone is invited to attend an interview, but if you are chosen you must attend.
During the interview you will be asked questions about your background, immigration history, about the studies you are planning to undertake in the UK, why you chose Solent University and your course, how you intend to fund your studies in the UK, and also how this fits into your career aspirations.
There may be some more specific questions about Southampton and your choice of accommodation to ensure you have researched your place of study.
If you are invited to attend a credibility interview, you can talk to us about preparation by calling the international student adviser on +44 23 8201 3821 or email: internationalsupport@solent.ac.uk .
The cost of a standard Student visa application is £524 and takes, on average, three weeks to decide, if you have applied outside of the UK.
The time is calculated from the time you provide your biometrics, not from the time of online payment.
If you had a visa refusal in the past, your application is likely to take longer.
You may be able to use a priority service at extra cost, if you need your visa decision sooner.
You should submit your application as soon as you have the required documents.
We are unable to speed up your visa application if it is still withing the standard times.
If you had a visa refusal in the past, or you fail to provide all required documents, or you submit more documents than needed, your application is likely to take longer.
If you are applying late, we suggest you us a priority service or super priority service at extra cost.
If your application is outside the three-week window, send your visa cover letter and confirmation of your biometric appointment to internationalsupport@solent.ac.uk and we will ask the Home Office what is holding up your decision.
If you believe that any of the information on your visa is incorrect, as outlined on your decision letter/email, you should contact the visa application centre (VFS Global or VAC) you applied through as soon as possible and prior to travelling.
Details of how to do this can be found on the FAQ pages on the individual websites for each VAC - a list of centres can be found here .
When you receive your CAS, review your details for accuracy.
If anything changes, eg, you receive a new passport, or you notice a spelling mistake or issue with your course date, report this to Solent's admissions team before applying for your visa.
Family members can join you during your study time on either a Student Dependant Visa or a Standard Visitor Visa.
For the latest qualifying criteria, please see the UKCISA website .
Within the immigration policy, Solent University is defined as a 'higher education provider with a track record of compliance'.
Student Dependant Visa
Your partner and children ('dependants') may be able to apply to come to the UK or stay longer in the UK.
If your postgraduate level course starts on or after 1 January 2024, it must be either:
If you have started your studies before 1 January but have suspended and planning on resuming studies, you will still be able to bring your dependants under the old rules, if you were eligible to do so.
Note that (with a few exceptions) both parents must be planning to come to the UK in order for your children to accompany you as your dependants.
Dependants will need to submit their application separately from the student application here .
For more information please visit the UKCISA website.
If you do not meet the criteria above, your family may visit you on a Standard Visitor visa .
For more information, please visit the following organisations:
If you are unsure about any aspect of applying for a Student visa, please contact our international student adviser:
Email: internationalsupport@solent.ac.uk Telephone:+44 23 8201 2104

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/botswana:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and understand that the process of relocating to a new country can be challenging.
Students coming from Botswana can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Botswana to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Botswana offices or our own international advice team .
A portfolio is also required for most of our art and design courses.
For postgraduate courses, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British bachelor's degree.
As a Botswana national you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
When you have met all the conditions of entry for a full-time course at Solent University (including payment of deposit and course acceptance), you will be sent a Certificate of Acceptance for Study (CAS) number.
You will need this document to apply for a student visa.
You should make your application for a visa at the local visa application centre .
Our International Recruitment Officers are available to answer any queries you may have about direct application to study at Solent University.
The course application process is straight forward, and most students find it easy to apply directly.
If you have a question for our team, simply fill in the form below:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/cameroon:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and understand that relocating to a new country can be a challenge.
Students coming from Cameroon can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Cameroon to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Cameroon offices or our own international advice team .
As a Cameroon national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
You should make your application for a visa at your local visa application centre .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/egypt:
Students coming from Egypt can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Egypt to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Egypt offices or our own international advice team .
To be considered for entry to a foundation year (year 0 of a foundation year), students should hold:
Students should hold:
As an Egyptian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
The course application process is straightforward, and most students find it easy to apply directly.
If you have a question for our team, simply fill in this form.
Solent also has several official representatives around the world.
They give you the chance to talk about opportunities here at Solent with someone in your own country.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/ethiopia:
Students coming from Ethiopia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Ghana to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Ethiopia offices or our own international advice team .
As an Ethiopian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/ghana:
Students coming from Ghana can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Ghana offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a West African Higher School Certificate/GCE A-levels.
As a Ghanaian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
You should make your application for a visa at the local visa application centre
Location: Accra
UK phone number: +44 115 882080
UK phone number: +44 7950 498700
Location: Accra, Contact: Nana Ameyaw

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/kenya:
Students coming from Kenya can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Kenya to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Kenya offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a university diploma.
Students with a Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) with grades C and above may apply for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree).
As a Kenyan national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Location: Nairobi (also have branches in Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and the UK)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/libya:
Students coming from Libya can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Libya to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Libya offices or our own international advice team .
To be considered for entry to a foundation year (year 0 of a foundation year), students should hold a Secondary Education Certificate.
If you are coming to study in the UK for longer than six months it is very likely that you will need to apply in advance for a Tier 4 (general) visa .
When you have met all the conditions of entry for a full-time course at Solent University (including payment of deposit and course acceptance), you will be sent a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number.
You will need this document to apply for a Tier 4 visa.
Check if you need a UK visa
Check the UK visa application process in your own country
Read more about UK study visas

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/mauritius:
Students coming from Mauritius can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Mauritius to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact our international advice team .
We are pleased to offer scholarships to students from Mauritius.
These are available if you are applying for a full-time course at Solent University and are a self-funded, full-fee student.
As a Mauritian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Speak with an official representative
Location: Mauritius

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/mozambique:
Students coming from Mozambique can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Mozambique to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Mozambique offices or our own international advice team .
As a Mozambique national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/nigeria:
Students coming from Nigeria can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Nigeria to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Nigerian offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a WAEC Senior School Certificate may apply for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree).
As a Nigerian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Our international recruitment officers are available to answer any queries you may have about direct application to study at Solent University.
Location: Abuja
Location: Lagos
UK number: +44 7950 498700
Contact: Elizabeth Adesanya
Nigeria number: +234 810 868 3495
Location: Lagos and Abuja, Abuja contacts: +234 80 5379 0901 and abuja@studyin-uk.com

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/rwanda:
Students coming from Rwanda can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Rwanda to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Rwanda offices or our own international advice team .
As a Rwanda national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/south-africa:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and understand that relocating to a new country to study can be challenging.
Students coming from South Africa can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from South Africa to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's South Africa offices or our own international advice team .
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels (Senior Certificate).
As a South African national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/tanzania:
Students coming from Tanzania can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Tanzania to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Tanzania offices or our own international advice team .
As a Tanzania national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Global offices: Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, UK, Location: Dar Es Salaam, Alt number: +255 212 9036/7

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/zimbabwe:
Students coming from Zimbabwe can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Zimbabwe offices or our own international advice team .
As a Zimbabwe national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/china:
Students coming from China can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from China to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's China offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a good Senior High School Diploma and an IELTS of minimum 5.5 may be eligible for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree) or an HND programme.
As a Chinese national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Contact: Christine Wu
Location: various offices throughout China (see the Golden Arrow website for more details)
Location: Shanghai
If you are studying at one of our academic partner institutions, you may be able to enter the second or third year of one of our undergraduate courses.
This can allow you to extend your learning and obtain a British undergraduate qualification.
We hold partnership agreements with the following institutions in China:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/hong-kong:
Students coming from Hong Kong can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Hong Kong to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Hong Kong offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a Hong Kong Advanced Level Certificate.
As a Hong Kong national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
UK site: www.iaeuk.net
We hold partnership agreements with the following institution in Hong Kong:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/japan:
Students coming from Japan can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Japan to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Japan offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold an associate degree/diploma from a Junior College.
Students with an Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate (Kotogakko Sotsugyo Shomeisho) may be eligible for a foundation year (year 0 of a bachelor's degree).
Students should hold a bachelor's degree (Gakushi).
As a Japanese national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Location: Tokyo and Osaka
Location: Tokyo and Osaka, Osaka: +81 (0)6 4256 6925
Location: Tokyo and Osaka, Osaka: +81 (0)6 6147 5681, Japanese site: www.ukeducation.jp
We hold partnership agreements with the following institution in Japan:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/singapore:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and understand that moving to a new country to study can be a challenge.
Students coming from Singapore can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Singapore to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Singapore offices or our own international advice team .
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels (Bachelor of Arts/Commerce - Pass).
Location: Emerald
Location: Near Lau Pa Sat

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/south-korea:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and understand that relocating to a new country can be challenging.
Students coming from South Korea can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from South Korea to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's South Korean offices or our own international advice team .
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels (a Junior College Diploma).
For postgraduate courses, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British bachelor's degree (Haksa).
As a South Korean national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/taiwan:
Students coming from Taiwan can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Taiwan to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Taiwan offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/kazakhstan:
Students coming from Kazakhstan can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Kazakhstan to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Kazakhstan offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/bangladesh:
Students coming from Bangladesh can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Bangladesh to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Bangladesh offices or our own international advice team .
The following qualifications will be considered:
As a Bangladeshi national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/india:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and we understand that planning to study and relocate to a new country, can be challenging.
Students coming from countries around the world can find support and advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
You can also chat online with one of our international students about their journey to Solent.
For more specific advice about coming from India to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's India offices or our own international advice team .
To be considered for entry to a foundation year (year 0 of a foundation year), students should hold the Standard XII with 50% or above.
Students should hold a bachelor's degree, minimum 2nd division.
In addition to your academic entry requirements, you will also need to achieve our English language entry requirements to join us here at Solent University.
IELTS is the most accepted English language qualification for programmes at Solent and there are multiple test centres throughout South Asia, operated by the British Council.
We accept UKVI or Academic IELTS.
The test must not be older than 2 years.
We also accept TOEFL IBT and Duolingo.
Please be advised that some academic programmes have different English language requirements to those listed here, so please check individual programme pages for variations in requirements.
As an Indian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Alt email: bizzeducationuk@gmail.com
India telephone number: +91 9955750000
Location: Hyderabad
Location: various offices throughout India
Alt email: kcsupport1@studies-overseas.com
Location: various offices throughout India, Contact: Ms Neha Shah / Mr Jagat Patel
Alt phone number: +91 484 4140999
Street address: Tristar Tower - West Wing 1st Floor, No.657, Avinashi Road, Above CITI Bank Coimbatore 641037
Office No 102, 1st floor Karnik Corner, Jangali Maharaj Rd, above Blackberry Store, Shivajinagar, Pune, Maharashtra 411004
Location: Mumbai

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/nepal:
Students coming from Nepal can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Nepal to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Nepal offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a bachelor's degree (two or three years' duration).
Students should hold a master's degree.
As a Nepalese national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Locations:  Nepal & India, Indian office: +91 9955750000

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/pakistan:
Students coming from Pakistan can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Pakistan to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Pakistan offices or our own international advice team .
As a Pakistani national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/sri-lanka:
Students coming from Sri Lanka can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Sri Lanka to study, please see the information below.
To be considered for entry to a foundation year (year 0 of a foundation year), students should hold the Standard XII with 70% or above.
As an Sri Lankan national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Locations: Sri Lanka, Tel: +44 775 361 41 51 (WhatsApp)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/brunei:
Students coming from Brunei can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Brunei to study, please see the information below.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/indonesia:
Students coming from Indonesia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Indonesia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Indonesian offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/malaysia:
Students coming from Malaysia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Malaysia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Malaysia offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a Malaysia Higher School Certificate (STPM).
Students with a Malaysia Certificate of Education (SPM) may be eligible for a foundation year (year 0 of a bachelor's degree).
As a Malaysian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Location: various offices throughout Malaysia (see website for more details)
Locations: Malaysia, Singapore, China and Hong Kong
Location: Petaling Jaya
Location: Kuala Lumpur
We hold partnership agreements with the following institution in Malaysia:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/myanmar:
Students coming from Myanmar can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Myanmar to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Myanmar offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/thailand:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and understand how daunting the process of relocating to a new country can be.
Students coming from Thailand can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Thailand to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Thailand offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a Maw 6 may be considered for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree).
As a Thai national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Location: Bangkok (Silom), Chidlom, Pinklao, Rama 2, Chiang Mai
Location: Bangkok

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/vietnam:
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Vietnam offices or our own international advice team .
If you are coming to study in the UK for longer than six months it is very likely that you will need to apply in advance for a Student visa .
When you have met all the conditions of entry for a full-time course at Solent University (including payment of deposit and course acceptance), you will be sent Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/australia:
Students coming from Australia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Australia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Australia offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold Senior Secondary Certificates of Education.
As an Australian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Find out how to apply for a UK visa
Location: Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Melbourne, Sydney
Locations: USA and Australia
Location: Perth

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/new-zealand:
Students coming from New Zealand can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from New Zealand to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's New Zealand offices or our own international advice team .
This is roughly equivalent to a National Certificate of Educational Achievements (Level 3).
As a New Zealand national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/austria:
Students coming from Austria can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Austria to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Austria offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold either:
The following qualifications apply to most of our taught postgraduate courses:
Students from inside the EU, EEA and Switzerland could enter the UK freely by showing their passport or national identity card until 31 December 2020.
If you entered the UK prior to 31 December 2020 you will not require a visa, provided you apply for the EU Settlement Scheme before 30 June 2021.
If you are a family member of an individual who has EU Settlement Status, you may also be eligible to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme.
More information about the EU Settlement Scheme and family members can be found on the student portal.
Students from the EU, EEA and Switzerland who have not entered UK, or entered on or after 1 January 2021 will require a visa.
Please watch the video and visit the visa and immigration pages for more information.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/belgium:
Students coming from Belgium can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Belgium to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Belgium offices or our own international advice team .
For postgraduate courses, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British bachelor's degree, such as:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/bulgaria:
Students coming from Bulgaria can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Bulgaria to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Bulgaria offices or our own international advice team .
Location: Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Blagoesvgrad, Veliko Tarnovo

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/cyprus:
Students coming from Cyprus can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Cyprus to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Cyprus offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/czech-republic:
Students coming from Czech Republic can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Czech Republic to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Czech Republic offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a Maturitni Zkouska/Maturita
Students should hold a Bakalar.
Location: Prague, Contact: Sabina Feldmanová
Location: Prague, Contact: Jakub Růžička
Location: Prague

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/denmark:
Students coming from Denmark can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Denmark to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Denmark offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/estonia:
Students coming from Estonia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Estonia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Estonia offices or our own international advice team .
For post-Brexit funding information for EU/EEA nationals from the 2021 academic year, see our information on EU student funding.
Location: Tallinn

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/finland:
Students coming from Finland can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Finland to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Finland offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a Ylippilastutkinto/Studentexamen (Matriculation Examination)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/france:
Students coming from France can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from France to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's France offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a French Baccalaureate.
Location: Paris, Marseille, Bordeaux, Les Adrets (near Cannes), Contact: Marie-Laurence Perrichon
This can allow you to extend you learning and obtain a British undergraduate qualification.
We hold partnership agreements with the following institution in France:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/germany:
Students coming from Germany can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Germany to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Germany offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold an Abitur.
We hold partnership agreements with the following institution in Germany:
For many years, Solent University has enjoyed a partnership with bib International College.
The partnership has seen a number of bib students from each of their campuses studying a wide range of courses after finishing their studies in Germany.
Watch this video, which was created by former bib International College students, to hear their experience of being a Solent student.
(video directed and produced by Solent students, Louise Reynaud and Joao Godhino)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/greece:
Students coming from Greece can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Greece to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Greece offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold the new Apolytirion of Lykeio.
Students should hold a Ptychion (bachelor's degree).
Location:  Athens
Location: Athens and Thessaloniki, Contact: Catherine Dearing
Location: Athens

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/hungary:
Students coming from Hungary can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Hungary to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Hungary offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold an Erettsegi/Matura..
Students should hold an Egyetemi Oklevel.
Location: Budapest, Contact: Andrea Cseh

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/ireland:
Students coming from Ireland can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Ireland to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Ireland offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold the Leaving Certificate in at least five subjects at Higher Level.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/italy:
Students coming from Italy can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Italy to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Italy offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a Diploma di Laurea.
Locations: Sri Lanka, United Kingdom and Italy

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/latvia:
Students coming from Latvia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Latvia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Latvia offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold an Atestats par Visparejo Videjo Izglitibu.
Students should hold a Bakalaurs.
Location: Riga, Riga phone number: +371 673 176 30
Location: Ventspils, Ventspils phone number: +371 636 078 69
Location: Riga, Contact: Natalija Kalinica

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/lithuania:
Students coming from Lithuania can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Lithuania to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Lithuania offices or our own international advice team .
Students should hold a Brandos Atestatas.
Students should hold a Bakalauras.
Location: various offices throughout Lithuania (see website for more details)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/luxembourg:
Students coming from Luxembourg can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Luxembourg to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Luxembourg offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/malta:
Students coming from Malta can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Malta to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Malta offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/netherlands:
Students coming from the Netherlands can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from the Netherlands to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Netherlands offices or our own international advice team .
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels (Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs - VWO).
A portfolio is required for most art and design courses.
For postgraduate students, we looks for a qualification equivalent to the British bachelor's degree.
This includes students with a Licencjat.
In order to enrol on a course at the University, you will be required to demonstrate an acceptable level of competence in both written and spoken English.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/poland:
Students coming from Poland can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Poland to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Polish offices or our own international advice team .
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels (Matura).
Location: Bydgoszcz

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/portugal:
Students coming from Portugal can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Portugal to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Portuguese offices or our own international advice team .
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels (Certificado de Fim de Estudos Secundarios).
This includes students with a Licenciado or students with a ;Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE).
Location: Porto, Alt number: +351 918 067 333
We hold partnership agreements with the following institution in Portugal:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/romania:
Students coming from Romania can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Romania to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Romanian offices or our own international advice team .
This includes students with a Diploma de Licenta / Diploma de Inginer / Diploma de Arhitect.
Please watch the video and visit the visa and immigration pages for more
Location: various offices throughout Romania, Contact: Adina Cristescu (adina.cristescu@educativa.ro)
Location: various offices throughout Romania, Contact: Ana Maria Papp
Location: Bucharest
Contact: Marilena Nita
Contact: Andreea Nelson Twakor, Alt number +40 736 538 740

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/serbia:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and understand that moving to a new country can be a challenge.
Students coming from Serbia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Serbia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Serbian offices or our own international advice team .
We are looking for:
As a Serbian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
You should make your application for a visa at the local British Embassy or High Commission .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/slovak-republic:
Students coming from Slovakia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Slovakia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Slovakia offices or our own international advice team .
Location: Bratislava and Kosice, Contact: Kristina Balikova or Zuzana Nieplova
Location: Bratislava, Contact: Roman Hutira
Location: Bratislava

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/spain:
Students coming from Spain can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Spain to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Spanish offices or our own international advice team .
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels (Licenciado, Titulo de Ingeniero, Titulo de Arquitecto).
A portfolio is also required for our art and design courses.
Location: Madrid, Contact: Sofia Goya
Location: Madrid, Sevilla
We hold partnership agreements with the following institutions in Spain:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/sweden:
Students coming from Sweden can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Sweden to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Swedish offices or our own international advice team .
As a general guide, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British high school A-levels (Fullstandigt Slutbetyg fran Gymnasieskolan).
For postgraduate students, we look for a qualification equivalent to the British bachelor's degree.
Location: Stockholm
Location: Lund

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/switzerland:
Students coming from Switzerland can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Switzerland to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Swiss offices or our own international advice team .
The following qualifications would apply to most of our bachelor's degree courses:
The following qualifications would apply to most of our taught postgraduate courses:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/turkey:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University and understand how challenging the process of relocating to a new country can be.
Students coming from Turkey can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Turkey to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Turkey offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a Devlet Lise Diplomasi or Lise Bitirme Diplomasi may be considered for a foundation year (Year 0 of a bachelor's degree)
For postgraduate courses, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British bachelor's degree (Lisans Diplomasi).
As a Turkish national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Location: Istanbul
Location: Ankara

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/ukraine:
Students coming from Ukraine can find advice on obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Ukraine to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Ukraine offices or our own international advice team .
Students with an Atestat pro Povnu Zagal'nu Sersdniu Osvitu may be considered for a foundation year (Year 0 of a bachelor's degree)
For postgraduate courses, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British bachelor's degree (Dyplom Bakalavra).
As a Ukraine national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/united-kingdom:
We have a large community of international students here at Solent University, many of whom have already studied GCSEs, A-levels and foundation courses in the UK.
Students who are already here in the UK can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice, you may also find information for your own home country useful.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council offices or our own international advice team .
The normal minimum entry requirements for an honours degree course are generally A-levels (measured in UCAS points ) or high school leaving examinations equivalent.
The specific entry requirements for each course are listed on the course information pages.
Usually, the minimum requirement would be a grade of 2:2.
If English is not your first language, you will be required to demonstrate an acceptable level of both written and spoken English before being accepted onto one of our programmes.
More information about entry requirements and English language.
Because you are already in the UK, you either don’t need a visa or you have obviously already been through the process of applying for one.
If you do need a visa, and you are currently studying at a school or college in the UK, it is likely that you will need to return to your home country to apply for a new Tier 4 visa.
For more information about visas see information for your home country , or contact our own international advice team .
Because you are already in the UK, we strongly recommend attending one of our open days to see the campus and speak to us in person.
However, if you would prefer to speak to someone in your local area about the opportunities here at Solent University, our own team visits various events around the UK, or you could contact one of our official representatives.
Alt site: www.iaeglobal.net
Location: Nottingham
Global offices: Hong Kong, China, India, Japan, Nigeria, Thailand, Turkey
Location: Brighton

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/argentina:
Students coming from Argentina can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Argentina to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Argentina offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/brazil:
Students coming from Brazil can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Brazil to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Brazil offices or our own international advice team .
As a Brazilian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Location: Boston
Location: São Paulo

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/colombia:
Students coming from Colombia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Colombia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Colombia offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a Bachillerato may be considered for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree).
For postgraduate courses, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British bachelor's degree, such as a Licenciado or Professional Title.
As a Colombian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/mexico:
Students coming from Mexico can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Mexico to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Mexico offices or our own international advice team .
To be considered for entry to a foundation year (year 0 of a foundation year), students should hold a Bachillerato.
Students should hold a Licenciado or Professional Title.
As a Mexican national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/bahrain:
Students coming from Bahrain can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Bahrain to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Bahrain offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a Thannawiya/Tawjihiya (General Secondary Education Certificate) may be considered for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree).
As a Bahrain national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/kuwait:
Students coming from Kuwait can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Kuwait to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Kuwait offices or our own international advice team .
As a Kuwait national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/lebanon:
Students coming from Lebanon can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Lebanon to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Lebanon offices or our own international advice team .
To be considered for entry to a foundation year (year 0 of a foundation year), students should hold a Baccalaureate.
Students should hold a bachelor's degree or Licence.
As a Lebanese national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/oman:
Students coming from Oman can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Oman to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Oman offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/qatar:
Students coming from Qatar can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Qatar to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Qatar offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a Thanawaya Aa'ma Qatari (Qatar General Secondary Education Certificate) may be considered for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree)
As a Qatari national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/saudi-arabia:
Students coming from Saudi Arabia can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Saudi Arabia to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Saudi Arabia offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a Tawjihiyad (General Secondary Education Certificate) may be considered for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree).
As a Saudi Arabian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/united-arab-emirates:
Students coming from the United Arab Emirates can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from the United Arab Emirates to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's UAE offices or our own international advice team .
Students with a Tawjihiyya (Secondary School Certificate) may be considered for a foundation year (level 0 of a bachelor's degree)
As a UAE national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/yemen:
Students coming from Yemen can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Yemen to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Yemen offices or our own international advice team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/barbados:
Students coming from Barbados can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Barbados to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Caribbean offices or our own international advice team .
As a Barbadian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/canada:
Students coming from Canada can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Canada to study, please see the information below.
We also have a page that gives details on securing a Canadian student loan .
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Canada offices or our own international advice team .
Generally, the High School/Senior Secondary Diploma (depending on which province your completed your upper secondary school) will be considered.
For postgraduate courses, we look for qualifications that are equivalent to the British bachelor's degree, such as a bachelor's degree or baccalaureate.
As a Canadian national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.
Solent has a number of official representatives around the world.
Locations: Norway and Canada
Location: Toronto

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/trinidad-and-tobago:
Students coming from Trinidad and Tobago can find advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from Trinidad and Tobago to study, please see the information below.
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's Trinidad and Tobago offices or our own international advice team .
More specifically, we are seeking students with:
As a Trinidad and Tobago national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/your-country/united-states:
Students coming from the United States can find a range of advice about obtaining a visa and studying in the UK right here on the Solent website.
For more specific advice about coming from the United States to study, please see the information below.
We also have a page about securing a US Federal Loan .
Alternatively, you can contact the British Council's US offices or our own international advice team .
Solent University is certified by the US Department of Education to originate both loan applications for Federal Direct Loans and PLUS Loans, together with private student loans via Sallie Mae .
You may find the following video guide helpful together with our full guide .
For further information please contact student.funding@solent.ac.uk
As an American national, you will need to apply for a visa to come and study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/living-in-the-uk:
Depending on where in the world you are arriving from, life in the UK may seem very different to what you are used to.
This is sometime called 'culture shock' and is a perfectly normal reaction to moving abroad.
This simple guide should help to give you an idea of what will need to be considered as part of your move, helping you settle in as quickly and comfortably as possible.
It covers essential topics like accommodation and banking, as well as things you may not have considered like climate, communications and emergency support.
Unless you've already planned and booked your accommodation at the time of starting your studies, we recommend you have accommodation for the first week of your stay in the UK.
Please note that the Southampton International Boat Show usually takes place mid-September.
Southampton is very busy at this time and hotel accommodation is impossible to find unless you have made prior arrangements.
You can find more information about events happening in the city, as well as hotel accommodation at the Southampton Tourist Information Centre: http://www.visitsouthampton.co.uk/visit
Further information on student accommodation can be found in our accommodation section , which also includes accommodation in the private sector.
'Right to Rent' Act implemented
Since February 2016, international students who do not live in halls of residence or in purpose-built student accommodation have to prove their immigration status to their landlord to show that they have the 'right to rent'.
Find out more about the right to rent act, and what this means
Council tax
Council tax is a property-based tax set by local authorities (councils) in England, Scotland and Wales to help pay for services that they provide, such as libraries, the police and fire brigade.
If you live in University halls or a house occupied solely by full-time students, you'll be exempt from paying council tax.
You can get a council tax exemption certificate from your school office once you have enrolled at the University.
Read more about council tax and international students
Banks are usually open 9.30am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, and some may open on a Saturday morning.
They shut on public holidays.
The major UK banks with branches in Southampton are:
If you're considering studying in the UK and you have children, it is possible for them to stay during the duration of your stay in the UK, provided they are under the age of 18 when they first enter the UK.
The Children and Young People's Information Service (CYPIS) give advice and support to parents and will be able to provide you with information regarding local nurseries and pre-schools in the area.
Their contact details are:
Email: cypis@southampton.gov.uk Telephone: 0800 169 8833 Opening hours: 8.30am - 4.30pm
Note for Student visa students
As a Student visa student, you will not be able to claim public funds for help towards childcare costs.
The UK immigration rules for students state you must meet the full costs of your course and accommodation and maintain yourself and any family members in the UK without having recourse to public funds.
You should therefore make sure you have enough money to cover living costs, course costs and child care costs.
Solent University does not provide any assistance for international students' childcare costs and students are expected to have made adequate provision for the cost of childcare when accepting a place on a course.
The University's disability support service, Access Solent aims to remove barriers and enable students to enjoy the full use of all facilities at Solent.
Read more about disability support
You must hold a valid driving licence to drive in Great Britain (GB).
For further information on the validity of driving licences issued outside Great Britain, please refer to the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) website or the UKCISA guidance on driving in England, Scotland and Wales .
The UK has very strict regulations regarding the possession of drugs.
The possession of drugs, other than those available from a pharmacist or legally prescribed, is a serious offence and can result in imprisonment or deportation.
British electricity works on 240 volts/50 cycles and most sockets take 13 amp square pin fused plugs.
If you're bringing your own electrical equipment with you, make sure they can be safely used on this voltage, otherwise you will require an adaptor.
In case of emergency where an immediate response is required, you should dial 999.
This is the UK's emergency number for the police, fire brigade or ambulance services.
You can also dial 101 to contact the police in non-emergency situations where immediate attendance is not required.
It is recommended that students work no more than 15 hours per week part-time so that their studies are not adversely affected.
Find out more about working in the UK
Solent Futures
Solent Futures is dedicated to helping you at every stage of your career planning, and offers advice on job seeking, vacancies, work experience, working abroad and voluntary positions.
Read more about Solent Futures
Working at Solent University
If you're a student at Solent University you have the opportunity to earn a minimum of £6.44 per hour working part-time on campus.
The variety of jobs on offer is almost endless, and offers opportunities from working in the library to helping out at university open days, or at graduation ceremonies.
All campus job opportunities are listed on our jobs dashboard .
National Insurance number and income tax
If you work in the UK, you'll need a National Insurance number.
However you do not need to have one in order to start working.
For full details on how to apply for a National Insurance number, how much tax you can expect to pay, and how to claim tax back, visit the HMRC website .
Working after your studies
If you're an international student with a Student visa, you can work full-time during an official University holiday, or after successful completion of your course (CAS end date).
There are a number of schemes that allow international students to stay on and work after their studies.
You can explore your options on the UKCISA website, or speak to our international student adviser in the Student Hub.
If you're applying to bring your spouse or children with you as dependants, the immigration authorities will normally give them permission to remain in the UK in line with your leave entitlement.
You should think carefully before deciding to bring your family with you to the UK.
There are important factors you will need to consider, such as immigration, employment, childcare, schooling, finance and accommodation.
See our visas and immigration page for more information about bringing your family to the UK
Living in the UK can be more costly than living in your country.
Therefore, it's essential you work out a budget when planning to come and study in the UK.
It's very difficult to estimate an individual's living costs as we all have different lifestyle requirements and spending habits.
UKCISA and Brightside have teamed up to create an online tool to help international students plan and budget their finance to study in the UK.
Why not have a go at using the international student calculator .
Read more about living costs
It's illegal to carry firearms in the UK and strict regulations apply to the importation and ownership of any weapon.
It's also illegal to carry offensive weapons, such as knives, in the street.
If you are from within the EU/EEA, you should obtain a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) as evidence that you are entitled to reciprocal healthcare provided by the NHS while studying in the UK.
The EHIC will only cover you if it has been issued by the authorities in your country of residence, before you travel to the UK.
Please note, you will still be liable for charges made under the NHS for medicines (prescriptions), eye care and dental treatment.
Read more about the EHIC
Non EU/EEA nationals
If you are from outside the EU/EEA and your course lasts for more than six months you are entitled to full healthcare under the NHS from the beginning of your stay, as long as you have paid the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) as part of your Student visa application.
If your course lasts less than six months, you should take out private healthcare insurance (unless you are a national of a country that has a reciprocal health agreement with the UK).
Registering with a doctor
When you have enrolled at the University you will need to register with a doctor.
Most students, if living in halls, choose to register with St Mary's Surgery .
If you are in private accommodation, a list of other doctors willing to register students is available from the Student Hub.
Medical/health insurance
Students coming to the UK for a course of six months or more are required to pay the Immigration Healthcare Surcharge as part of their visa application.
By doing so, you are entitled to receive full health care provided by the National Health Service (NHS), on the same basis as other UK residents, from the day of your arrival in the UK.
You should be aware that the NHS charges for medicines, eye care and dental treatment.
Access to the NHS is limited for study under six months on a Student visa and for anyone coming on visitor visas, including short-term study visas.
We strongly advise students in this situation to purchase private medical insurance before coming to the UK.
Personal possessions insurance
You are strongly advised to insure your personal belongings against theft, loss and damage before coming to the UK.
Many companies specialise in low-cost insurance for students.
We are unable to recommend any particular company, therefore, it is advisable to shop around for the most competitive quote.
To help you get to and around the campus, we have a number of links to zoomable maps and pdf maps.
You can also find us on Google Maps .
The largest telephone company in the UK is British Telecom (BT).
Public BT payphones accept coins to the value of £2, £1, 50p and 20p.
Some payphones accept pre-paid phonecards as well as coins; these vary in value and can be bought at post offices and shops displaying a phonecard sign.
International calls can be made from all payphones; you'll need at least £1 to make an international direct-dialled call.
A number of companies offer international calls at cheaper rates than those operated by BT so it's advisable to shop around for the best deal.
It's cheaper to make telephone calls between the hours of 6pm and 8am, Monday to Friday, or all day Saturday and Sunday.
A number of payphones can be found in each of the halls of residence and across the campus.
Mobile phones
The main mobile/cellular networks in the UK are: O2, Vodafone and EE.
They are available on a contract or 'pay-as-you-go' basis and there are hundreds of different tariffs.
It is advisable to shop around to get the best deal and find the appropriate phone and tariff for your needs.
If you need to use your mobile or a landline phone to call home, there are many comparison websites which can provide you will the most up-to-date information on the cheapest international call plans.
To help you find the best broadband, TV and phone packages, you can use price comparison websites such as www.broadbandgenie.co.uk .
In addition to providing you with a comparison service , they can also offer a guides on how to save money when calling abroad from the UK
Regardless of your faith, the University's multi-faith centre provides support to students in an inclusive and non-judgemental environment.
Read more about the multi-faith centre
Shipping
Choose a freight company that has a good reputation; ask friends, your international adviser or consult the British Association of Removers for recommendations.
Firstly, obtain quotations for the cost of sending goods before deciding on a particular freight company.
Check if the price includes insurance to cover any loss or breakages.
The freight company will usually need three days' notice to deliver your empty export boxes and three days' notice to collect the full boxes when packed and ready to ship.
You'll need to label the freight with your full name, address and telephone number in your home country on each box, and you also need to number the boxes.
Storage
Whether you live in halls of residence or in private accommodation, remember that your contract is usually for a 40-week period.
It's therefore important to find out where you'll store your possessions during the summer holiday if you are coming back to study the following academic year.
The accommodation office does not provide any storage facility.
If you're renting in the private sector, you will need to discuss your options with your landlords, should you decide to stay in the same place.
Otherwise, you may need to consider a storage company.
Most shops are open between 9am and 5.30pm, Monday-Saturday, and until 9pm on Thursdays for 'late-night' shopping.
Some are open on Sundays between 10am and 4pm.
Supermarkets are usually open until 8pm but some larger stores are open 24 hours from Monday to Friday.
Information on local supermarkets will be available during the induction programme.
The University's on-campus newsagent, C-Store, sells a range of soft drinks, confectionery, newspapers and magazines.
Solent's student-run store, Re:So sells clothing, accessories, art and gifts designed and produced by students and graduates of the University.
If you're living in a student residence or alone and you own a TV or other device to receive and record TV programmes, you are required by law to hold a valid TV Licence.
If you live in a shared house, a separate tenancy agreement (contract) would normally mean your room is classified as a separately occupied place.
If you have a television in your room, you will need your own TV Licence.
If your house is classed as one place shared by all tenants, you will only need one TV licence for the property.
A joint tenancy agreement (contract) would normally indicate that there is only one separately occupied place.
The charge for the TV Licence is £169.50 for a colour licence.
You will need to renew your licence every year.
It is a criminal offence to watch TV without a licence and could lead to prosecution and a fine of up to £1,000.
For more information on TV Licences visit www.tvlicensing.co.uk .
Solent University is located in the heart of the city which makes it an ideal place to live.
For that reason, you may not need to use public transport very often while studying with us.
However, if you do, the main bus company in Southampton is Bluestar .
If you decide to visit places outside of Southampton, you can either use South West Trains or National Express coaches.
You can buy rail and coach cards from local ticket offices.
16-25 Railcard , available to those aged 16-25.
Young Persons Coachcard , available to those aged 16-26.
These cards can enable you to save between 20% and 30% on many normal adult fares, but check conditions before purchasing.
International Student Identity Card (ISIC)
The International Student Identity Card can be purchased.
This card enables you to obtain reduced fares plus a variety of student discounts when you travel abroad.
You will need passport-sized photographs when purchasing any of these.
The British weather is changeable and the winter months can be very cold.
The temperature can also vary considerably within one day.
In September, Southampton has a temperature variation of between 9ºC and 22ºC.
It's advisable to bring warm, waterproof clothing with you as many students find the climate very cold, although warm clothing can be purchased from a wide selection of stores.
The coldest months of the year are usually January and February, with an average temperature of 4ºC; July and August are usually the warmest months, with an average temperature of 18ºC.
While studying in Southampton, many students wish to travel to other countries for recreational or study-related trips.
You should check with the embassy/consulate of the country you wish to visit whether someone of your nationality requires a visa to travel there.
You may experience difficulties obtaining a visa if you apply to travel towards the end of your studies in the UK.
Many European embassies/consulates expect students to have between two and six months' leave to remain in the UK beyond the term of their proposed trip.
Therefore, it's advisable for you to travel during the holidays (such as Christmas, Easter) before the end of your course.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/housing-guide-for-international-students:
It’s important that you have accommodation in place before you arrive in Southampton.
Both private and university residence options are high in demand so you will need to start planning well in advance.
Most landlords and private providers of accommodation require a UK guarantor and or six months’ rent in advance as a minimum.
We strongly advise you to make sure that you have accommodation in place before making travel plans.
Here, we've put together some information to help guide you when looking at accommodation options in and around Southampton.
If you would like to stay in Solent University residences, you will need to make an online application for accommodation in advance of your arrival.
You can find out more here .
You will need a unique reference number to be able to register and apply for accommodation with us which will be sent to you by email if you have chosen Solent University as your first choice.
If your course starts in January, you won’t automatically receive an email from, us so you will need to email accommodation@solent.ac.uk to ask for your unique reference number.
Please note that accommodation options in January are very limited so you will need to look at your options well in advance of your arrival to the UK.
The University has a private housing scheme called SASSH .
SASSH is run in partnership with the University of Southampton and Southampton City Council and contains a list of properties which landlords have agreed will be managed to a certain standard.
Landlords who list properties on SASSH agree to:
To search for properties, you will need to first register on the SASSH website.
If you do not yet have a University email address, please register on SASSH and email private.housing@solent.ac.uk to request access.
You can use the SASSH website to search for housing by university campus and you can also view a map which shows the location of each property.
SASSH message board
The SASSH website also has a message board function where students can advertise for house mates or spare rooms.
Many students who are looking to leave a contract and have an available room also advertise here.
This can be a useful function for finding shorter term contracts.
Please be aware that students can advertise a room in any property, therefore the properties may not meet SASSH standards.
There are several purpose-built student accommodation providers across the city.
Often described as hotel style, each site is run by a different private operator (company), and they are completely independent of the University.
Options in private halls range from single room to studio apartments, and everything in-between.
You can view a list of developments local to Southampton on the SASSH website .
Importantly, all the listed providers are signed up to the ANUK Code.
Any provider signed up to the code has agreed to manage their accommodation to an approved national government-approved standard.
Find out more on the ANUK Code website.
Private halls of residence have been very popular this year and filled up very quickly.
Many developments may state on their website that they are full, however it’s still worth contacting them as they may hold waiting lists and sometimes have cancellations if a student has decided that they no longer require a room.
All private halls have different contract conditions and some are more flexible than others.
It’s a good idea to contact each provider directly to find out what they might be able to offer.
For further advice on this, or any other accommodation options contact private.housing@solent.ac.uk .
The University does not have any family accommodation.
If you require accommodation for your family, you will need to source housing in the private sector.
Due to legislation, there are conditions imposed by the local authority around the number of people who are legally and safely able to share a property if they are not from the same household.
This means that in most cases it is not possible to share a room with a friend.
Accommodation suitable for families is in short supply and the average price of a two-bedroom, market rent property in Southampton is currently £1,205 per calendar month (without bills).
In most cases you will need to be able to provide rent for the duration of the contract in advance, and often a UK guarantor.
The University is unable to recommend specific websites to find family accommodation, however Southampton City Council suggests looking at the following websites: Zoopla , Rightmove and Southern Daily Echo .
Read more on the Southampton City Council website
Remember it’s crucial that you have accommodation in place before making any travel arrangements.
If you choose to use an agency to find accommodation, ensure they are signed up to a professional body such as NRLA .
Redress schemes
By law, letting and estate agents must be signed up to a property redress scheme.
A letting agent redress scheme can resolve disputes between letting agents and their customers.
Both landlords and tenants can complain to a scheme.
Important: remember, if a property is not listed on SASSH, the University is limited in the assistance we can provide if things go wrong.
Agency fees
The Tenant Fees Act 2019 places very strict rules on what tenants can and can’t be charged for.
Accommodation providers/agencies and landlords can only charge for what is known as a ‘permitted payment'.
For example, a refundable holding deposit, capped at no more than one week’s rent
If you would like further information on private housing, you can contact the University's private housing adviser by email: private.housing@solent.ac.uk .
Some landlords let out spare rooms in their home - this is commonly referred to as lodgings.
Arrangements may be self-catering or may include meals.
Please be aware that if you live with your landlord, you will have less security.
However, this option may be appropriate for you if you require a flexible or short contract as you are able to move out at short notice.
Some students also enjoy the home-like atmosphere of living with a family.
Private accommodation providers, landlords and agents are legally required to check the immigration status of all tenants, residents, and any adults over the age of 18 who will be living in the property.
This is called a right to rent check.
Right to rent checks also apply to lodgers, so all households or ‘host families’ offering a room to rent also have to carry out the checks.
The checks have to be carried out on adults before the start of the housing contract or tenancy agreement.
The landlord is also required to make a copy of the documents and keep them on file for a year after the tenancy ends.
Landlords and host families are subject to penalties if they break the law.
Guidance for landlords
The UK government has produced guidance for tenants and landlords on which forms of identity documents can be accepted as proof of a tenant’s right to rent and how to carry out the check.
You can read more about this on our information for landlords page.
Download our right to rent guide
There are several guest houses, bed and breakfasts, and hotels across the city.
Although more expensive, this may be a useful option if you are looking for a short stay.
Please note that the Southampton Boat Show takes place during September and it can be very difficult to find short term accommodation during this time as many hotels and bed and breakfasts are booked up in advance.
If you would like to arrange short term accommodation, early booking is strongly advised.
What is a guarantor?
A guarantor is someone who agrees to be responsible for your rent and your other legal obligations in a tenancy agreement.
They may also be responsible for the rent and legal obligations of any co-tenants you share with.
For example, if you or any of your co-tenants don’t pay your rent, the landlord can ask your guarantor to pay.
If your guarantor doesn't pay, the landlord can take your guarantor to court.
A guarantee agreement is a contract that sets out the guarantor's responsibilities.
It must be in writing.
The contract is a legally binding agreement so the person signing it as the guarantor must be prepared to do what they promise to do in the agreement.
Letting agents and referencing companies have different requirements they will want guarantors to meet.
Generally, they will want someone who:
If you don’t have a guarantor
If you are struggling to get a guarantor, speak to the landlord as they may be willing to negotiate, for example, some landlords may be willing to accept rent in advance instead.
Guarantor companies
There are private guarantor companies (such as Housing Hand and UK Guarantor ) who offer to act as guarantor for working professionals and students in return for a fee.
Unfortunately, the University is unable to recommend guarantor companies.
For further advice on accommodation or housing contact the University’s private housing adviser by email: private.housing@solent.ac.uk .
If you are not studying for a full year you will require a shorter contract.
Many landlords offer contracts for 12 months so it’s important to make sure that you check the length of the contract before you sign it.
Contracts can be legally binding and complicated so it’s always a good idea to get it checked before you sign anything.
By law a landlord must give you reasonable time to ensure you understand your contract and to get it checked if required.
The University Accommodation Team offers a free contract checking service.
Joint and several liability
If you move into a shared property, it is likely that you will sign a contract with ‘joint and several liability’.
This means that all the tenants in the property are equally liable for their own and each other’s rent for the duration of the contract.
All tenants would also be jointly responsible for observing other conditions, such as maintaining the property, and could be equally liable in the event of any damages.
Sole contract
This is a contract which is only in your name, and you are solely responsible for the conditions of the contract.
Importantly remember to get everything in writing, for example, in a contract or email.
Contract checking
You can ask the landlord or the letting agent for a ‘sample copy’ of the contract before signing it.
The University offers a free contract checking service.
You can use this service by emailing private.housing@solent.ac.uk to book an appointment.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs provides advice to international students.
They run a telephone helpline but have lots of information on their website, so look there first and only call the helpline if you can’t find what you are looking for on their website.
Arranging accommodation safely from a distance
Action Fraud urge students to be aware of rental scams when looking for accommodation.
Never hand over any money without being sure the property exists.
Make sure you use a trusted website when looking for accommodation, anyone can advertise on some websites.
Action Fraud advise students to use their universities approved accommodation scheme where possible, for example www.sassh.co.uk .
Check with the University's accommodation team
The University can provide advice and guidance on landlords and agencies, we can also confirm if an agent or landlord is known to us or if we have received complaints about them.
Email private.housing@solent.ac.uk for further information.
Checking property ownership
Some unscrupulous people or companies may try to let out properties that do not belong to them without the knowledge or permission of the owner.
If your prospective landlord is not the property owner, ask for proof that they have the authority to let it to you.
Virtual viewings
If you are unable to view a property in person, it may be possible to ask a trusted friend or family member to view it on your behalf.
If this isn’t an option for you, most accommodation providers now offer virtual viewings.
It is important to ask as many questions as possible so preparing a list of queries in advance of the viewing and writing down the answers would be useful.
You can also request additional information from the landlord/accommodation provider such as additional photos of floor plans to assist in your decision making.
Right to rent checks guidance for landlords
The UK Government has provided guidance for landlords and tenants on how right to rent checks should be carried out and which documents are acceptable.
Read the guide .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/working-in-the-uk:
Work rights are a condition of your immigration permission.
This means it is very important that you are clear about what you may and may not do.
You must always comply with any restrictions, which are explained in high level detail on this page.
Further information and guidance is available on the UK Government or UKCISA website .
If you are an EEA or a Swiss national who applied for the EU Settlement Scheme, or you are the dependant of one, you're permitted to work in the UK without any restrictions on the number of hours or type of work.
To prove that you are a national or dependant of a national of an EEA country, you'll need to show an employer your passport or identity card and share your digital status.
If you are studying on a course shorter than six months, or are attending resits or graduation, and you were issued a Standard Visitor visa, you are not permitted to work in the UK.
A Restricted Entry sticker in your passport and your BRP card indicate that you can work 10 or 20 hours per week depending on your level of study.
You can work full-time during official vacation periods and after your course ends within the additional two or four months, depending on your course duration.
You can apply for and accept jobs in most types of paid roles, at any level.
Restrictions on the type of employment permitted under the Student visa apply.
You won’t, for example, be able to set up your own business or be self-employed during your course, but you can prepare your business plan to launch your business after your studies.
Further details are available on the UKCISA web site
Solent University has a dedicated careers service which provides students with information on job vacancies, career planning, and every aspect of working during and after your studies.
For more information, visit the careers section .
You can work full-time on a work placement only if:
Part-time placement during your permitted working hours is possible, as long as you do not work over 10 or 20 hours during term time.
This route allows international students to remain in the UK for two or three years (PhD only) after they have completed their studies and engage in paid and unpaid employment.
To secure a Skilled Worker visa you will need to be sponsored to do a specific job, which meets certain skill and salary requirements, by an employer that has been licensed by the Home Office.
Our Solent Futures careers service can set you on the right path during your studies with advice and guidance on employability.
The Global Talent visa is available for talented and promising individuals in the fields of science, engineering, medicine and humanities, digital technology, and arts and culture who wish to pursue their career in the UK.
There are two routes available, which cater for different levels of experience.
Exceptional Talent is for people who are already established as leaders or recognised experts in their field.
Exceptional Promise is for people who have the potential to become leaders or recognised experts in their field.
Family members on a Dependant visa are permitted to undertake any type of work, full-time and part-time, employed and self-employed.
However, they cannot take employment as a doctor or dentist in training unless they have a degree in medicine or dentistry from a UK institution.
Any family member visiting you on this visa will also be prohibited from working in the UK.
You should always have a pay slip, showing how much you have earned and any deductions made.
If you're working 'cash in hand', you are not working legally.
If you're unsure about your pay slip, please check with the International Student Adviser.
For full details of how to apply for a National Insurance number, how much tax you can expect to pay and how to claim tax back, please see the student tax advice on the gov.uk website .
UK Government visa information
UKCISA guide to working in the UK after your studies

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/cpd-professional/study-abroad:
You will have the opportunity to select from a wide range of subjects.
Our career-focused courses are aimed at enabling you to learn relevant workplace skills.
Find out what Mollie and Dean had to say about their experiences at Solent University and studying in the UK from Canada.
Watch the video >
This programme is for any student who has at least one year of university study in their home country and who is looking to broaden their international experience by studying abroad.
Exchange students : You may be studying with one of our partners .
We will contact you with information regarding the modules and application process once you have been nominated by your university.
There will be no tuition fee.
Find out more .
'Free-movers': You are an international student and have organised your study abroad experience independently, without being a part of any exchange programme.
You will need to apply directly to us and there will be tuition fees.
Solent students: If you are enrolled at Solent University and would like to study, work, or volunteer abroad, you'll find information on our funded opportunities abroad page on SOL .
Southampton is located just over an hour away from London.
Students also enjoy easy access to the New Forest National Park and the Solent, a top yachting destination.
Benefit from living and studying in another country.
Study Abroad students are able to choose from a number of classes and will integrate our level 5 (second year) groups.
See the list of modules for each course .
Please note: Not all modules are guaranteed to run each year.
For more information, please contact international.mobility@solent.ac.uk .
An international experience is incredibly valuable to your personal and professional development.
Spending time studying in another country is a great way to develop independence, confidence, cultural awareness and a chance to develop a social and professional network.
If you complete one year of study successfully, you would also be able to progress to the final year of the course and complete your bachelor's degree at Solent University.
The fees may vary depending on what type of student you are.
Please see below for further information.
You pay tuition fees to your own institution.
The 2024/25 fees are:
Full year: £16,125 One semester: £8,300
You pay fees to Solent University and there are no fees to the host institution.
There may be opportunities for students to participate in social activities and trips to local tourist attractions.
Fees for social and cultural activities are not included in the tuition fee.
There are no additional bursaries or financial support specifically for the Study Abroad and Exchange programme.
If you have any questions or would like general information about the Study Abroad and Exchange programme, you can chat to a member of our friendly team .
This short course is only for international students coming to the UK.
Applicants must have completed at least one year of higher education and meet the English language requirements for the level at which they wish to study (undergraduate or postgraduate as applicable).
Students coming for one semester will need a Standard Visitor Visa .
Students coming for two semesters will need to apply for a Student Visa .
Our pre-sessional English programme is designed to help students from around the world, improve their academic and English language skills in preparation for undergraduate and postgraduate studies at Solent University.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance/tuition-fees/discounted-fees:
In some circumstances students will be able to receive a discount on their tuition fees.
Discounts are offered to those who have studied here before, staff, and to students who are related to a member of staff.
Please note that the discount schemes cannot be used in conjunction with one another or other scholarships offered by the University.
The discount is available to all Solent alumni who gain entry to their postgraduate programme.
You must also be a self-fee-paying student.
The discount will not apply if you are sponsored by an employer or have another form of sponsorship.
The discount is applied to both full-time and part-time study modes, but it is applied to the fees you pay each year.
Those studying at Solent on a top-up degree and who are intending to stay on at Solent for their postgraduate course are eligible to apply.
There are no restrictions on your graduation year, so as long as you are a Solent alumni with a completed award, you can apply.
Your discount will be automatically applied if you return to study at Solent.
As long as you have not already started the course, your discount will be automatically applied when you return to study with us.
The discount can only be applied once at each level you progress, so if you choose to do a second master's degree after completing your first, the discount will not be applied to the second master's.
The discount will apply to your PhD course fees.
Postgraduate students may be able to apply for a loan from the UK Government .
Loans will be available for both taught and research master's programmes (MA, MSc, MBA, MRes, LLM, and MPhil) and will cover all disciplines and subject areas.
Your alumni discount will be awarded automatically (no application necessary).
Staff members who undertake courses at Solent University will be fully liable for their course fees, except where they are covered by one of our staff sponsorship and discount schemes .
Staff members will be required to pay any fees not covered by the discount schemes in line with standard student tuition fee payment terms.
For further information, please visit our self-funding pages.
In order for the discount to take effect, Solent staff discount forms need to be sent to sponsorforms@solent.ac.uk prior to registering on the course.
Staff should leave 24 hours from when they submit their form before registering on their course.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance/paying-your-fees/postgraduate-funding:
Postgraduate students are able to apply for a postgraduate loan from the UK government.
The postgraduate loan is not income assessed.
Loans are available for both taught and research master's programmes (MA, MSc, MBA, MREs, LLM and MPhil) and cover all subject areas.
Eligible new postgraduate students can borrow up to £12,471 to pay for any costs (ie, accommodation and tuition fees) associated with their study.
Full-time, part-time and distance learning modes of study are all included.
Postgraduate loans are not available for postgraduate certificates or postgraduate diplomas.
You cannot apply for a loan if you have already gained a qualification at master's (or higher) level.
Download our postgraduate funding factsheet
Visit the GOV.UK website for more information on how to apply, how to repay your loan and eligibility criteria.
Solent University offers graduates a generous discount on postgraduate study.
Discounted fees
Scholarships are available to help UK, EU and international students to pay for their postgraduate education.
Follow the link below to find out more about academic merit scholarships.
Scholarships
Postgraduate doctoral loans are available for eligible students from the UK Government, and can help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate doctoral course, such as a PhD.
Whether you qualify depends on your course, your age and your nationality/residency status.
You may also be eligible for extra support if you have a disability.
You have to repay your postgraduate doctoral loan at the same time as any other student loans you have.
You’ll be charged interest from the day you get the first payment.
You will be able to apply for funding for the 2018 to 2019 academic year in summer 2018.
Full information is available on the GOV.UK website.
A range of charities and commercial organisations run their own postgraduate bursaries.
Some may require you to demonstrate eligibility by producing a written application, short video or other creative project.
Others will simply require you to apply online.
Some useful links are included below:
The University also subscribes to the Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding .
The Guide has information on alternative sources of funding - especially charities - which can make awards (fees, maintenance, research costs) to any student, regardless of subject or nationality.
The Alternative Guide Online contains a database of funding opportunities, comprehensive guidance, and numerous tools to help you prepare a grant application.
The Guide is free to use for all students and staff with a Solent log-in.
If you are a prospective student who has applied to the University, please email research.admissions@solent.ac.uk to request a PIN to give you access to this resource.
International students may be eligible for funding through the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/open-days/postgraduate-open-days:
Watch the video to find out why you should book an open day and come see Solent for yourself
If you're thinking of starting a postgraduate degree at Solent, our open days give you the perfect opportunity to discover the wide range of MA, MSc, LLM and MBA courses we offer.
You'll feel right at home at our friendly and welcoming campus where you can talk to and ask questions of course leaders about your chosen course, and explore our industry-standard facilities.
Depending on the event you choose to book, you'll also be able to chat to our admissions, student finance, and Student Hub teams about enrolment, funding and student support.
We also know that some people can't attend an on-campus open day, or would feel more comfortable learning about Solent at home, which is why we're offering some events virtually, as well as our on-demand open day.
Solent is the only university on the south coast to achieve a triple gold rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023 - why not visit an open day to find out more about our award-winning teaching.
Our next open day is on:
29 November 2025
The Spark, East Park Terrace, Southampton, SO14 0YN
9am-3pm
Head to The Spark building at our East Park Terrace campus to sign in.
From there, you'll be able to take tours of our fantastic facilities and attend a variety of talks.
Our postgraduate open days are packed full of activities, tours and talks - all to help you discover what life as a postgraduate student at Solent University is like.
You'll have the opportunity to join the postgraduate presentation, covering everything you need to know about studying at postgraduate level, life at Solent, and living in Southampton.
Our postgraduate team will also be available throughout the day to offer support and guidance.
You'll also be able to get up close and personal with some of the facilities and equipment you could be using on your course.
And our accommodation, admissions, finance and student support teams are all on hand to answer any questions you may have.
For the full picture, take a tour of the campus with one of our student ambassadors.
If you're looking for a bite to eat or a drink, visit the East Park Deli, Costa Coffee, or the Dock - they all serve hot and cold drinks, as well as snacks and a selection of hot and cold food.
Prospective students who attend a physical open event at Solent and live outside of the local authority of Southampton City Council, or have travelled from outside of the UK, can apply to receive an Amazon voucher covering the cost of their travel to the event.
Once you have booked to attend one of our events, we will send you the travel voucher application form.
opendays@solent.ac.uk
We’re delighted to have achieved triple gold for student experience, for student outcomes, and overall - the highest standard in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) review and the only university on the south coast to have achieve this.
Southampton plays host to over four million visitors a year and boasts an impressive cultural offering, from museums, music venues and art galleries, to award winning parks and the general hustle and bustle of a diverse city with fantastic shopping facilities.
You'll be able to hear from students about their experience of studying at Solent, including student support, and living in Southampton.
And to complete the package - take a virtual tour of our campus and our excellent facilities, as well as our student accommodation.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/search:
Showing 1-12 results of 3907
Using spatial audia as a Media Production student
What goes into being a successful YouTuber?
"My Grandma is Sad," a photography project that serves as a wake-up call to the issue of mobile phone addiction.
Gawain Kinnersley’s Never Grow Up*transforms Will Varley’s 'King for a King' into a poignant black-and-white photographic series that captures the universal journey of growing up.
Seskaro photography project
Who would you write to if you knew your words could never be traced back to you?
This is sincerely Anon, a podcast where we analyse the anonymous analysing exactly what it is people write when behind a curtain of anonymity.
This blog post discusses a powerful photographical portfolio about homelessness created by a student.
Find out more about what's happening at #SLTCC2017.
Read abstracts and learn more about the work being presented.
Find out more about what's happening at the 2017 Solent Learning and Teaching Community Conference.
‘A Night Over the Atlantic’ By Anton Novi is a student created geolocated audio story that immerses listeners in a tale about the Titanic.
What is a community?
How are they defined?
Daniel Crow has become an Honorary Fellow at Southampton Solent University.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/apprenticeships/what-is-an-apprenticeship:
Apprentices are employees with a contract of employment which details the same benefits as any other employee.
Apprenticeships are typically delivered on a day release basis, where candidates will work four days a week and be released to study on the fifth.
This can vary depending on course and employer/candidate needs.
An apprenticeship is a combination of a standard (which is a list of behaviours, skills and knowledge to be achieved); and formal qualifications.
An example of this would be the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship Fast-Track apprenticeship , which we underpin with our BA (Hons) Business Management degree programme.
The candidate would work towards both the standard and the BA (Hons) qualification simultaneously.
The length of study is variable, but will be a minimum of 372 days.
Typically, higher and degree apprenticeships run for three years.
Candidates undertaking an apprenticeship will complete a variety of activities.
These could include professional discussions, presentations, essays, exams and practical assessments.
These will be delivered through a combination of classroom sessions and practical workshops, depending on the programme.
Becoming an apprentice is a great way to start in a new career whilst undertaking study that helps you be more impactful in your role.
Simply apply for a role that interests you, interview with the training provider and then interview with the employer.
If successful, your next step will be to sign up to the apprenticeship.
You will receive a contract of employment the same as any other employee.
Often the contract is fixed term for the length of your apprenticeship.
If you are already working, apprenticeships are a great way to further your career.
Work with your employer to choose an apprenticeship standard that relates to your role and then find a training provider to support your learning.
The team here at Solent are happy to talk through your current situation and look at how we can work together to address your training needs.
Get in touch with us via email at apprenticeships@solent.ac.uk , or call 023 8201 5066.
GOV.UK's apprenticeship homepage
GOV.UK's guide to apprenticeship funding
Step-by-step guide to the apprenticeship service (PDF)
Institute for Apprenticeships
You can also call the National Apprenticeship Service on 08000 150 600 or email them at nationalhelpdesk@findapprenticeship.service.gov.uk .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/apprenticeships/employees-guide:
The face of apprenticeships is changing.
Apprenticeships are often considered to be targeted solely at those who are first starting their careers, but this no longer holds true.
A large proportion of apprentices are still using this provision to gain entry to employment, but there has never been more opportunity for existing staff to get involved and upskill.
Apprenticeships are offered across all levels of education - level 2 and level 3 (GCSE and A-Level equivalent); level 4 and Level 5 (HND and HNC equivalent); and now level 6, level 7 and level 8 (degree, masters and doctorate).
If you have previously studied but now work in an unrelated career, you can retrain at any level.
If you have completed qualifications in traditional routes such as A-level but want to further align your training with your job role, apprenticeships offer a perfect solution.
Apprenticeships are flexible, industry relevant and completely free for candidates.
The apprenticeship is funded on a co-investment scheme from the Government at 95% Government contribution and 5% employer contribution.
This means a three year £27,000 degree apprenticeship could cost your employer as little as £1,350, which equates to £450 a year or £37.50 per month .
If a smaller employer takes on an apprentice within the age of 16-18 years, or 19+ with a local authority education, health and care plan, they could receive a 100% contribution from the Government.
Find out more about the available apprenticeships at Solent University.
Apprenticeships at Solent
Get in touch with us via email at apprenticeships@solent.ac.uk or call 023 8201 5066.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/apprenticeships/employers-guide:
Apprenticeships have changed.
As an employer you now have more power than ever before to write new apprenticeship standards, select standards that are relevant to your business needs and choose your preferred training provider.
Even the way apprentices are paid has changed - you can pay wages directly, or make payments through your apprenticeship service account .
Apprenticeships can be offered to your staff without incurring major costs.
Government will co-invest in apprenticeships with a split of 95% government contribution to 5% employer contribution.
Smaller employers who take on an apprentice who is 16-18 years old (or 19+ with a local authority education, health and care plan) could receive 100% Government contribution.
Any employer who takes on an apprentice from the above category could also receive an incentive payment of £1,000.
Apprenticeships are offered across all levels of education - level 2 and Level 3 (GCSE and A-Level equivalent); level 4 and Level 5 (HND and HNC equivalent); and now level 6 and level 7 (degree and masters).
We offer qualifications at level 4, 5 and 6, but are happy to recommend other local institutions who can provide training at lower levels.
Employers who are looking to take on a new recruit as part of the apprenticeship programme are welcome to advertise on Solent Futures and recruit from our pool of talented graduates.
Seen something you are interested in?
Take a look at our course pages or get in touch with us using apprenticeships@solent.ac.uk .
Still confused?
Find out more about apprenticeships on GOV.UK .
See the statement on Solent's approach to subcontracting elements of the apprenticeships offer
Guide to employing an apprentice

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/aaron-vidal:
Aaron Vidal's apprenticeship has given him fantastic exposure to various aspects of engineering; getting hands-on with real-world projects.
Job title: Apprentice
Employer: Airbus
Studied: Embedded Electronic Systems Design and Development Engineer (Degree) Apprenticeship
Aaron is on our Embedded Electronic Systems Design and Development Degree Apprenticeship.
With a passion for design and making things, he saw the apprenticeship as a perfect opportunity to work alongside his degree.
I was born and raised in South London, fortunate enough to have family who inspired and encouraged my passion for design and making.
After A-levels, I intended to study design engineering at another university.
However, to avoid having my first year interrupted by Covid, I chose to defer my offer until 2021.
During this period, I discovered the degree apprenticeship with Airbus.
What initially seemed like a difficult decision (I even drew up a pros and cons list) became much clearer when I realised that I would be given the opportunity to gain four years of work experience at Airbus, a fully funded BEng in electronic engineering, and a salary.
While I appreciate the importance of formal education, I believe that in engineering, work experience with the right company is highly valuable.
If I had chosen the standard university path, I would be in the same position as many of my friends now – competing for placement year spots or summer internships.
To that end, I view my decision to pursue a degree apprenticeship as an investment in my future.
The ability to learn theory at university and then being able to apply it practically at work is invaluable.
I’ve always held aspirations of working in engineering/technology and a company like Airbus is a massive part of that space.
Speaking of space, it’s such a technologically diverse industry comprised of many disciplines - it was my hope that working at Airbus would expose me to these different areas.
One of the driving factors for me getting into engineering was STEM outreach.
It was another aim of mine to get involved where I could, so I might help facilitate the same wonder that inspired me to pursue engineering.
I have been given fantastic exposure to various aspects and sectors of the engineering field.
Getting hands-on with real-world projects has not only expanded my theoretical knowledge but also equipped me with crucial practical skills, driving me closer to becoming an accomplished engineer.
Airbus has created an environment where I can work alongside and learn from other accomplished engineers, enriching my knowledge.
As for outreach, I’ve taken every opportunity.
Participating in events has afforded me the ability to interact with students, educators, and other professionals passionate about STEM.
For example, I learned about amplifiers one day and the next I was at work constructing circuits with them.
Being able to see the result of the theory in context really helps ground and solidify your knowledge.
I am keen to further enhance my practical skills and theoretical understanding to become an accomplished engineer in the near future.
Work and earn in industry while gaining a full BEng (Hons) degree in modern electronics.
Learn to program robots, design, implement and analyse circuits and systems.
Get ahead in an electronics career with this professionally accredited programme, combining practical challenges, excellent facilities and teaching from industry specialists and academic researchers.
Be at the forefront of energy technology and shape the future of the next generation.
Apply your engineering skills to develop efficient uses of valuable global resources.
Tackle real-life industry challenges, and put your knowledge into practice with a degree that delivers hands-on skills for a successful engineering career.
Aerospace Engineer Apprentice
QinetiQ
Graduate Naval Architect

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/ryan-gaudion:
Ryan Gaudion is on his second apprenticeship; developing his knowledge and skills to progress his career as a software developer.
Job title: Software Developer
Employer: Lockheed Martin
Studied: Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (Integrated Degree) Apprenticeship
After experiencing the benefits of a level 3 apprenticeship, Ryan jumped at the chance to study a degree apprenticeship as a way of progressing in his career as a software developer.
He shares his experience of studying on the Digital Technology Solutions Professional (Integrated Degree) Apprenticeship and the benefits this has provided for his personal development and career progression.
I had just completed my level 3 apprenticeship while working as a software developer at Lockheed Martin, and was looking for a way to continue my education, as well as develop my career.
At first, I completed additional technical qualifications such as CompTIA Security+ (Cyber Security Qualification) as well as all three of the AWS Partner Qualifications.
After this, I was offered the opportunity to continue at Lockheed Martin as a level 6 degree apprentice and thought this would be the perfect opportunity to continue learning.
My degree would only require me to attend university one day a week while working on the job (and gaining valuable experience) the rest of the time.
In addition to all of this, the degree would be free and I would be getting paid to work too!
When I started the apprenticeship, I wanted to continue developing my career while staying in a technical pathway.
As part of this, I wanted to have the skills and knowledge in a range of technologies to work on larger, more complex projects.
As I already had two years' experience as a software developer at Lockheed Martin and had completed many additional technical qualifications, I set the goal of completing the degree apprenticeship in two years instead of the recommended three-year journey.
Throughout the apprenticeship, I had the opportunity to work on a range of complex projects, both at university as well as at work.
These projects, as well as the off-the-job training, taught me the technical skills I required to excel as a software developer.
The university modules gave me the chance to work on projects for customers outside my organisation and work on different application types that I wouldn’t normally work on day-to-day.
I now have a much more in-depth knowledge of the technologies I use every day, plus a broader understanding of other tools and techniques that I could use.
Completing the apprenticeship programme has not only progressed my career but also developed my knowledge and skills.
I now have a much more holistic understanding of not only my job role but the roles and teams that I interact with day to day.
Since graduating from university with a first-class degree, I have moved into the role of a full-time software developer.
If I had gone through the 'traditional' route and started university outside of an apprenticeship, not only would I be graduating a year later, but I’d also be starting in a graduate role.
Completing the apprenticeship programme has not only progressed my career, but also developed my knowledge and skills.
A degree apprenticeship has also developed my soft skills, including my presentation skills which I use regularly in the workplace.
Finally, being an apprentice with Lockheed Martin has opened me up to so many incredible opportunities, such as attending the House of Commons for the ADS Parliamentary Reception, representing Lockheed Martin at the DSEI Defence Trade Show, and providing talks at local schools, colleges, and universities about STEM and early careers.
My apprenticeship has been an amazing journey that has not only developed my career, and progressed both my technical and non-technical skills, but also given me incredible opportunities.
As a Digital Technology Solutions apprentice you will be guided by a curriculum that has been developed in association with BT, HP, IBM and GSM to develop the skills...
Data analysis is in high demand, with organisations increasingly requiring skilled staff to collect, analyse and interpret their data.
The primary role of a data analyst is to collect, organise and study data to provide business insight.
Blending the latest business management theory with innovations from the digital landscape, this CMI accredited degree provides essential business skills for a career in management.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/ellie-paige-richardson:
Ellis is working as a freelance make-up artist for In Your Dreams, the company she did her internship at while she was studying.
Job title: Freelance Make-up Artist
Employer: In Your Dreams
To me, fashion styling is allowing yourself to be creative and unique in fashion and beauty.
I’ve always tried to push myself creatively and think up new makeup ideas which push the boundaries.
At Solent, we had to do 100 hours of industry-relevant work experience, which helped me look for professional jobs, and make a creative CV and portfolio to send to potential employers.
This course is for you if you have a creative flair and innovative ideas regarding fashion and makeup.
I’m now working for the company I did my internship with – In Your Dreams.
As a makeup artist for the company, I attend festivals and corporate events, making over clients with glitter and gems made into intricate designs.
A typical day for me could see me commuting to London to go to an event with In Your Dreams, or undertaking a variety of jobs as a freelance makeup artist.
It can vary quite a lot and I’m never doing the same thing twice, which keeps things interesting.
My career highlight so far is being featured on social media by big makeup brands, such as Nyx Cosmetics and Eldora False Eyelashes.
I also recently won a competition with some of my makeup looks.
I won £500 worth of high end makeup, which will help me build up my freelance kit even more.
Make your cutting-edge designs ready for the catwalk.
This degree will nurture your creativity through practical experience from tailoring to streetwear in our specialist fashion studios.
Use your passion for fashion and beauty to become a multi-skilled storyteller – guided by our industry experts and using professional facilities to deliver content and campaigns for UK brands.
Freelance photographer
Influencer and PR coordinator
Pretty Little Thing
Executive Assistant
THE EDIT LDN

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/peter-abbs-fortnum:
Peter discusses how the apprenticeship gave him financial stability as a homeowner, whilst training to become a nurse.
Job title: Registered Nursing Associate
Employer: Southampton Primary Care Ltd
Studied: Nursing Associate (NMC 2018) Apprenticeship
Peter Abbs-Fortnum opted to complete his nursing training through the Nursing Associate (NMC 2018) Apprenticeship, valuing the financial stability it offered him while studying.
He’s now a Registered Nursing Associate employed by Southampton Primary Care Ltd (SPCL).
He shares what it was like to complete his studies through an apprenticeship.
"I opted to complete my nursing training through the apprenticeship programme at Solent because I was able to get paid to work and study at the same time.
As a homeowner with a mortgage, the apprenticeship offered me financial stability and security which I could not guarantee going through the traditional three-year nursing degree option - a choice I would not hesitate to make again.
"I was incredibly grateful to be given the opportunity to complete my studies through Solent.
Despite commencing the apprenticeship in March 2021 (during the coronavirus pandemic), the team at Solent were amazing at delivering a comprehensive and engaging course – adapting the course quickly to facilitate a hybrid model of learning at home and on site.
The team were exceptionally friendly and supportive, drawing upon a wealth of experience and knowledge, as well as extending our learning with the addition of guest lecturers.
"Over the two-year course, I was fortunate to have the opportunity to undertake four eight-week placements.
Our first was impacted by Covid and had to be undertaken within our own workplace but I still gained extensive experience and knowledge.
I was also given the opportunity to have a placement at St Catherine’s View Dementia Care Home and two placements at University Hospital Chichester.
I could not have asked for better placements!"
The team at Solent were amazing at delivering a comprehensive and engaging course.
They were exceptionally friendly and supportive, drawing upon a wealth of experience and knowledge.
The course has massively developed my knowledge, skills, and experience – my favourite modules included Anatomy and Physiology, and Recognising and Escalating a Deteriorating Patient, as it was incredibly relevant to my current role and an area I have always found interesting.
Completing the apprenticeship has given me a greater understanding of why we do something and has also given me a lot of confidence to be able to better educate others.
My current role involves delivering enhanced health care in care homes, as well as clinical shifts within a GP surgery setting; the scope of my work extends from administrative duties to clinical skills such as phlebotomy, vaccinations, and long-term condition management.
My ambition now is to complete the top-up course with the aim to becoming a fully-qualified registered nurse within the next couple of years.
The Nursing Associate Apprenticeship has been a massively beneficial stepping stone in my healthcare career; I am ever so grateful to the nursing team at Solent and look forward to being able to complete my top-up course in the near future!
The nursing associate apprenticeship has been developed to create a new role in health and social care.
These highly trained individuals will deliver effective, safe and responsive nursing care.
This course will provide you the skills to gain a role as a nursing associate within the NHS.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/apprenticeships/funding-levy-paying-employers:
A 0.5% deduction will be taken from PAYE over this £3m marker.
Levy payers can access and manage their levy through GOV.UK's apprenticeship service , an online tool where employers can undertake a number of activities:
Employers can also use GOV.UK's apprenticeship service to recruit apprentices and see the longer term financial allocations earmarked for apprenticeship training.
It is worth noting that levy paying employers only have a 24 month period to use their levy fund (on a rolling basis).
The levy is taken through PAYE on a monthly basis.
The online apprenticeships service gives an indication about how much money can still be used and in what timeframe.
All apprenticeship standards are allocated a fee banding between £1,500 and £27,000.
Most higher and degree apprenticeships fall within the highest band.
The £27,000 is broken down and taken in monthly payments over the term of the apprenticeship.
Over four years, this works out at £562.50 per month.
This is paid directly from your levy account to the training provider.
Employers should be wary of training providers who offer their apprenticeship standards at much lower costs.
Employers should also ensure that the training provider is attaching a relevant and transferrable qualification to the apprenticeships (such as an HND, HNC or BA Hons).
This will ensure your staff are getting recognised qualifications, and that you are receiving good value for money.
If employers need any help using their apprenticeship service account, the apprenticeship team at Solent are happy to assist .
The latest apprenticeship changes have put employers firmly in the driver's seat, but spending the levy appropriately may be a concern for some.
We can also offer advice around available apprenticeship provision; training needs analysis; and staff development strategy.
Levy information on GOV.UK
Levy calculator
Browse list of apprenticeship standards

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/apprenticeships/funding-non-levy-paying-smes:
Non-levy paying businesses and businesses that need to supplement their digital levy account will need to co-invest 5% of the cost of their apprentice training.
Small businesses (<50 employees) will receive 100% of the funding where the apprentice is 16-18 years old, or is between 19-24 and has a local authority education, health and care plan .
Employers and training providers will both receive an additional £1,000 where the apprentice is between 16 and 18 years old inclusive.
This is to be paid by way of two equal instalments after 3 and 12 months.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/art-and-design:
Explore your creativity on a design foundation year at Solent University.
Develop your technical, creative and study skills before your starting design-related degree.
The Art and Design Foundation Year begins with a five-week group project, enabling you to mix with like-minded peers and helping you to settle in quickly.
The project also helps you decide which area you might like to follow at a later stage.
The following ten weeks are spent introducing you to the world of art, design, and fashion.
This includes design history, vocabulary, methods, and academic foundation.
This ten-week block also gives you the opportunity to learn and apply two-dimensional and three-dimensional visualisation techniques, giving you the tools required to conduct your final project.
The final project takes place in the last fifteen weeks of the course and is based around the specific discipline you will go on to study.
The project is supported by tuition in visual presentation techniques, enabling you to communicate concepts, development processes, and final proposals.
You’ll also receive instruction in verbal communication and presentation techniques, increasing your confidence in pitching design ideas.
Solent’s Art and Design Foundation Year is perfectly suited to students who may not be from an art-, design- or fashion-related background, or whose qualifications do not meet the admissions requirements of their chosen undergraduate course.
This module provides a programme of Personal Development Planning (PDP) tools.
The three concepts of personal development, improving learning and performance, and forward planning to achieve goals are brought together in this module.
In other modules you have had the opportunity to develop research, design and communication skills.
This module is designed to help you now apply these skills to your own project.
Design Visualisation This module introduces basic two and three-dimensional representation techniques.
It builds a firm understanding of the basic visualisation tools that will be necessary to follow undergraduate study in design, construction, and architectural disciplines.
Group Design Project You will explore general concepts and disciplines in context to product design, interiors, architecture, and construction, developing a range of skills and knowledge designed to underpin the modules that follow on the Design Foundation Course.
Industry Awareness This module helps you to appreciate and understand how decisions are made to plan effective industry specific scenarios.
Industry Skills In a progressive and supportive manner, you will build your confidence to communicate your ideas in both a visual and written manner that is in keeping with industry practices.
Contextual Practice In this module you will explore the aspects of art and design history and theory expressed through visual images.
We will spotlight contemporary issues and debates as they are explored through images.
Topics will address contemporary issues within the multidisciplinary field of visual culture – we will discuss images from art history, film, fashion, hair and make-up, design and more.
Creative Applications This module is designed to provide you with the skills and knowledge to communicate your art and design skills creatively.
During the module, you'll develop a themed project, from inception of ideas to completion, and the stages and elements involved in the process.
It will build your confidence in a progressive and supportive manner to communicate your ideas most effectively within the arena of art and design.
Materials and Methods This module introduces you to a range of technical skills appropriate to your future learning.
You will learn, experiment and research other practitioners’ works to help you develop your own ideas.
Research and Ideas Development This module places importance on both independent study and communication between students and is designed to establish strong and supportive peer networks.
The teaching team for the foundation year is made up of lecturers who also teach on the degree courses.
Course Coordinator
IELTS 6.0 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each individual component, or equivalent.
Our foundation years are designed to offer a broad range of academic skills alongside a taste of the wider industry before you start your chosen specialist undergraduate degree.
Some degrees also include a year in industry, meaning you can gain valuable first-hand work experience with a year-long full-time work placement between the second and third years of your degree.
Find the undergraduate degree you’re interested in studying, and explore the course page – this is also where you’ll find the modules you will study throughout your degree.
Make sure you’ve selected a ‘foundation year’ (or foundation year and year in industry) variant; you’ll find this under ‘Course length’, near the top of the relevant course page.
Click the ‘Apply on UCAS’ button, and check the UCAS summary mentions ‘foundation year’ under ‘Study mode’.
And don’t worry if you discover a new skill or subject you love during your foundation year, it’s easy to switch to another linked degree!
BA (Hons) Fine Art Nurture your talent for painting, sculpture or applied art, guided by a passionate team of artists, curators and theorists, in a supportive, creative community.
Apply for BA (Hons) Fine Art with foundation year
BA (Hons) Graphic Design Carve out your career in design across print and digital platforms.
Solent gives you freedom to explore your craft in dedicated design studios.
Apply for BA (Hons) Graphic Design with foundation year
BA (Hons) Illustration Turn the art of your imagination into crafted illustrations and build your portfolio using dedicated multi-media facilities and art studios.
Apply for BA (Hons) Illustration with foundation year
BA (Hons) Prosthetics and Special Effects Design Unleash your imagination to create characters for stage and screen and develop your portfolio of work using the latest design techniques.
And learn from experienced industry experts.
Apply for BA (Hons) Prosthetics and Special Effects Design with foundation year
BA (Hons) Architectural Design and Technology Build your architectural career with a professionally accredited degree that delivers industry specific skills and experience, and the opportunity to qualify as a BREAAM Accredited Graduate.
Apply for BA (Hons) Architectural Design and Technology with foundation year
BA (Hons) Interior Design Blend your artistic flair with technology and design, to create innovative and attractive indoor spaces for both domestic and commercial use on this SBID accredited degree.
Apply for BA (Hons) Interior Design with foundation year
BA (Hons) Interior Design Decoration With award-winning graduates and a teaching team of industry professionals, our SBID-accredited degree will provide you with the design skills to turn your vision into reality.
Apply for BA (Hons) Interior Design Decoration with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Construction Management Build your future in construction and develop valuable skills in management, building technology and sustainability, on this CIOB accredited degree.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Construction Management with foundation year
BA (Hons) Fashion Management with Marketing Do you want to be at the forefront of fashion, launching the latest brands and leading styles?
Gain strategic marketing skills and business insight ready for a commercial career in fashion.
Apply for BA (Hons) Fashion Management with Marketing with foundation year
Apply for BA (Hons) Fashion Management with Marketing with foundation year and year in industry
BA (Hons) Fashion and Beauty Media Use your passion for fashion and beauty to become a multi-skilled storyteller – guided by our industry experts and using professional facilities to deliver content and campaigns for UK brands.
Apply for BA (Hons) Fashion and Beauty Media with foundation year
BA (Hons) Fashion Design Make your cutting-edge designs ready for the catwalk.
Apply for BA (Hons) Fashion Design with foundation year
BA (Hons) Fashion Photography and Image Production Realise your vision on this innovative course, combining fashion photography, fashion film and multi-media production, and gain the skills to become a confident image creator in the fashion industry.
Apply for BA (Hons) Fashion Photography and Image Production with foundation year
BA (Hons) Fashion Styling and Creative Direction If you have an eye for style, make-up and content creation - this degree can help you turn your creativity into a fast-paced and exciting career.
Apply for BA (Hons) Fashion Styling and Creative Direction with foundation year
BA (Hons) Make-Up and Hair Design Superb connections, amazing facilities, and the opportunity to work alongside students of photography, TV, film, and SFX make Solent’s course a first choice: the gateway to careers across the world.
Apply for BA (Hons) Make-Up and Hair Design with foundation year
BA (Hons) Photography Focus your creative vision and develop your ideas using a range of large and medium format cameras, digital editing suites and even traditional film processing facilities.
Apply for BA (Hons) Photography with foundation year

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/business-and-law:
Whether you're interested in business, law, finance, or marketing - gain new skills, build confidence, and develop your capabilities before moving on to your undergraduate degree.
Designed by experienced academics who’ve worked across key roles in a wide variety of industries, the Business and Law Foundation Year will help you develop a strong foundation of business knowledge alongside academic and transferable skills to ensure you get the most out of your degree-level studies.
It also provides a direct entry point to one of our business-related or law-related undergraduate degree programmes.
Whether you’re interested in the private, public, charity, social enterprise, entrepreneurial industries, or legal practice, this foundation year is your gateway to developing the skills for your first management job, to set up your own business, or to pursue a career in law.
From core subjects such as business, law, finance, marketing, enterprise, personal development, and projects in the community, you’ll gain a solid introduction to the foundations of business and law, study contemporary business challenges, identify future trends and focus on the areas and industries which matter to you.
Our degrees offer the chance to engage and get hands-on experience of international business and legal challenges and contexts, as well as a variety of extra qualifications, exemptions, and memberships in addition to your honours degree.
You’ll develop strong academic and organisational skills and prepare yourself for successful careers in a range of business industries – studying a curriculum that is not just about theory but also real-world application.
BSc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance
Apply for BSc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance with foundation year with year in industry
BSc (Hons) Business Management
Develop the skills, confidence and real-world experience you’ll need to succeed in the world of business or excel as an entrepreneur with our top-ranked, CMI-accredited Business Management degree.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Business Management with Digital Technologies
Apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management with Digital Technologies and foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management with Digital Technologies and foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Business Management with Finance
Become a business innovator and gain financial expertise.
With Solent awarded Outstanding Higher Education Provider of the year, this CMI accredited degree prepares you for rewarding career.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management with Finance and foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management with Finance and foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Business Management with Marketing
Flourish in a business career and gain the strategic management and creative marketing skills to become a successful future leader on this CMI accredited course.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management with Marketing and foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Business Management with Marketing and foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Maritime Business
If you’re looking for an exciting international career and playing a key part in global trade, Solent can offer you the vital skills needed for this fast-moving business environment.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Maritime Business with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Maritime Business with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Shipping and Port Management
If you want to work in the exciting hub of ship operations, this specialised degree gives you a global perspective of managing business for international trade.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Shipping and Port Management with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Shipping and Port Management with foundation year and year in industry
Get a head start in your legal career – our accredited degree has professional practice at its core, letting you build experience and confidence alongside an extensive network of real-world partners.
Apply for LLB (Hons) Law with foundation year
Apply for LLB (Hons) Law with foundation year and year in industry
LLB (Hons) Law with Business
Launch your legal career and combine business practice to expand your career aspirations in law and business.
Apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Business with foundation year
Apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Business with foundation year and year in industry
LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology
Expand your career horizons across law, criminology, and criminal justice and gain the essential skills for working in the legal practice and criminal justice systems.
Apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology with foundation year
Apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology with foundation year and year in industry
BA (Hons) Event Management
Gain knowledge and experience of the thriving global event industry.
Learn to design, deliver and manage successful events that contribute positively to social, cultural and economic development.
Apply for BA (Hons) Event Management with foundation year
Apply for BA (Hons) Event Management with foundation year and year in industry

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/computing:
Widen your knowledge in computing and gain a broad understanding of the subject area before moving on to a specialist computing-related undergraduate degree.
This one-year computing foundation course is the ideal way to learn essential programming, web design, networking, and security skills before starting a specialist three-year undergraduate degree.
On completion of the foundation year, you’ll be able to join the first year of a course within the computing area.
You’ll get to grips with the basics of computer programming by taking part in creative and fun practical projects.
These will be carried out under the guidance of a teaching team with a wide portfolio of experience and skills.
Personal development is crucial – you’ll be supported in improving your academic confidence and start on the road to becoming an independent learner.
We encourage teamwork and cross-discipline collaboration, both of which are highly valued by employers.
Solent’s computing team maintain a strong network of industry and employer contacts.
You’ll be encouraged to utilise these networks to seek work experience placements, attend industry events, and learn from specialist guest speakers.
This foundation year is ideally suited to students who want to earn a specialist degree in an area of computing, but don’t yet hold the qualifications or experience required to start on the first year of an undergraduate course.
This module is an introduction to the wide range of processes used for current digital media, audio and visual technologies.
The module introduces the learners to the basic concepts and practices in different areas of computing focusing on computer hardware, software, operating systems, computer networks, and cyber security.
This module provides an introduction to the technologies and the mathematics that underpin much of computing and media technology.
This module explores the foundations of collaborative work practice, the importance of team work in the digital and technology industries including its context within an academic environment, by offering practical guidance on current best practice for either running or being part of a successful team.
This module develops academic study skills that students will need for future levels of study.
It lays the foundation for constructing reports and presentations in an academic style.
This module serves as an introduction to computer programming and aims to develop the fundamental problem solving techniques that are required to solve computational problems.
BSc (Hons) Computer Networks Engineering
Well-qualified network engineers are in high demand and this degree is delivered in partnership with Cisco Networking Academy providing essential skills for the computing industry.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Networks Engineering with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Networks Engineering with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
Get ready for a fast-paced career in the computing industry with this BCS accredited, industry-focused degree that delivers extensive knowledge, practical experience and professional qualifications.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Science with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Science with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Cyber Security Management
Want to protect the world from hackers, viruses and cyber-attacks?
This practical degree course enables you develop the in-demand skills in a growing industry.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Cyber Security with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Software Engineering
Do you have a passion for programming?
Ranked top 20 in the UK for teaching and accredited by BCS, on this degree you can build your portfolio of experience ready for a career in the tech industry.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Software Engineering with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Software Engineering with foundation year and year in industry

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/digital-arts:
Explore your creativity and develop the core skills and knowledge to progress directly on to one of Solent's highly-regarded digital arts, animation, or CGI and VFX degrees.
Taught by highly experienced industry professionals, the Digital Arts Foundation Year will help you develop the core skills and knowledge to progress onto one of our related industry-focused undergraduate degrees.
You’ll cover essential subject areas and work on exciting practical projects designed to help you learn key digital design skills.
You’ll also be supported in developing key transferable skills for your degree-level studies.
To aid your studies, you’ll have full access to Solent’s industry-standard facilities, including specialist labs and high-end dual computers equipped with industry software such as 3ds Max, Maya, Substance, Photoshop, Unreal Editor and Unity.
You'll be taught by passionate staff who are experts in their fields, with a wealth of real-world experience and knowledge.
They'll be on hand to help you throughout your foundation year and then onto your chosen undergraduate degree.
Solent’s Digital Arts Foundation Year is intended for students without the required UCAS points for direct entry.
BA (Hons) Animation
Apply for BA (Hons) Animation with foundation year
BA (Hons) CGI and Visual Effects
Ranked top 5 in the UK with the Rookies, this course can prepare you for the thriving and ever-expanding industries of visual effects and gaming.
Apply for BA (Hons) CGI and Visual Effects with foundation year
Apply for BA (Hons) CGI and Visual Effects with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Computer Games Programming and Design
Bring your games ideas to life with this industry focused degree, allowing you to specialise in design, development or programming, and get practical studio-style experience on real games projects.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Games Programming and Design with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Games Programming and Design with foundation year and year in industry
BA (Hons) Computer Games (Art)
With a key focus on core game art skills, professionalism and portfolio building, this degree prepares you for an exciting career at the forefront of the gaming industry.
Apply for BA (Hons) Computer Games (Art) with foundation year

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/media:
Immerse yourself in a wide variety of media platforms to develop your creative and technical skills, as well as your academic skills, before starting your three-year undergraduate degree.
The Foundation Year in Media provides you with the opportunity to develop technical, creative, and academic skills across a range of media platforms including graphic design, screenwriting, marketing, branding, video production, digital photography, and blogging.
You’ll be encouraged to situate your own media production within established traditions and styles while beginning to identify your storytelling voice and signature style.
You'll also be introduced to the significance of the creative industries within the UK economy and will be encouraged to begin positioning yourself within this growing and exciting, but competitive, sector.
Understanding that students are joining the Foundation Year from a range of previous experiences, the course is specifically designed to acclimatise students to the university experience.
For the first six weeks you'll study just one unit, ‘Belonging’, which is tailored to help build a sense of course community and ease you into university life.
Your first semester concentrates on building foundations and establishing key skills.
Your second semester allows introduces more flexibility and allows you to tailor your learning and your assessment to your own specific interests and your own future undergraduate pathway and potential career.
Face-to-face academic support is available throughout and is complemented by 24/7 access to the University’s virtual learning environment.
You'll be immediately introduced to the University’s media production store where you can borrow equipment for your assessments and your own personal projects free of charge.
The course also provides hardware training, especially photography DSLRs and video cameras.
There is also training on audio recording equipment and free access to relevant facilities and microphones.
In the course of the year, you also receive hands-on training with relevant software packages, most notably video, photography, and graphic design post-production software.
By the end of the year, you will feel competent in photography, video production, and graphic design, giving you a head start on any creative undergraduate degree programme.
The Foundation Year in Media is designed to help you build basic media-making skills ahead of starting a full undergraduate media-related degree at Solent.
Typical candidates either haven’t yet met the entry requirements needed to start on the first year of an undergraduate course or have spent time away from education.
You will learn to present complex creative ideas in visual and compelling ways, work with others as a member of a collaborative group, become a student of the university, and meet with staff from your progression course.
This module will give you opportunities for further exploration of your own chosen field of media practice which leads to a deeper understanding of your own individual path through your course.
This module will teach you to find good quality information and to effectively present it.
You will be eased into the process of exploring and accessing good quality sources of information in a variety of ways.
By undertaking your own research about the branch of the creative industries you want to work in you will begin to build an understanding of the nature of work and employment in the sector.
This module will not only be an opportunity to undertake a creative project it will also teach you all about how projects work and how to ensure you get the best out of collaboration with a project team.
On this module, you will be breaking down the theoretical and practical building blocks that stories are made from in order to become a better storyteller yourself.
Level Tutor and Pastoral Support
Unleash your creativity with a TV and film career.
Learn from industry experts in professional-grade facilities, and join our internationally successful graduates at the BBC, Sky, Disney and beyond.
Apply for BA (Hons) Film and Television with foundation year
BA (Hons) Film Production
Build the right skills, and develop your talent, and your portfolio to break into the film industry.
Our high-end kit, and industry connections provide the ingredients for a successful career.
Apply for BA (Hons) Film Production with foundation year
BA (Hons) Media Production
Are you riding the wave of the new generation of content creation?
Learn to bring your stories to life through ever-changing media platforms and create your own professional future.
Apply for BA (Hons) Media Production with foundation year
BA (Hons) Post Production for Film and Television
Specialise your creative and technical skills in editing video, motion graphics and sound for cinema or prime-time television, using our professional facilities on this ScreenSkills accredited degree.
Apply for BA (Hons) Post Production for Film and Television with foundation year
BA (Hons) Television Production
Get the experience to produce and direct the next big primetime TV hit on our ScreenSkills accredited degree.
Our graduates have gone on to work on at Strictly, The Repair Shop, Sky News and more.
Apply for BA (Hons) Television Production with foundation year
BA (Hons) Sports Journalism
A sports journalism degree can turn your love of sports into a writing and reporting career.
On this degree, you’ll dive straight into the action and gain hands-on experience as a sports journalist.
Apply for BA (Hons) Sports Journalism with foundation year
Apply for BA (Hons) Sports Journalism with foundation year and year in industry

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/popular-music:
Take the first steps in your music career at Solent University.
Collaborate with other students and develop your performance and production skills before moving on to your music-related degree.
This year-long popular music foundation programme is structured to equip you with the broad range of production and performance skills you’ll need to progress onto a full music degree.
The foundation year enables students from widely varied backgrounds, and with varying aspirations, to develop their music production and performance skills, while helping to acclimatise to the ethos and expectations associated with higher education study in general, and study at undergraduate level.
Throughout their studies, students will have access to a range of contemporary, industry-standard software and plugins including Logic Pro X, Ableton Live Suite, Pro Tools and Native Instruments’ Komplete.
Students also enjoy access to our professional recording studios, acoustically treated workstations, DJ equipment/facilities, music labs, and instrumental practice rooms.
The Foundation Year in Popular Music is for those who are looking to study on one of our music-related degrees, but don’t have the relevant qualifications or experience.
The foundation year will help you develop the core skills and knowledge to progress.
On the successful completion of this foundation year, you will automatically progress onto the Solent music degree of your choice.
This module will introduce and familiarise you to industry-standard digital sound production software.
You will learn the software, composition and production techniques; including audio manipulation and synthesis exploring sound with accompanying visual elements.
This module provides you with an understanding of studio techniques, song formats, instrumentation, and the popular music production industry contextually.
This module provides you with an understanding of song formats/song structure and instrumentation.
You will learn how to critically listen developing your aural skills to established and published musical works, in order to apply to your own musical outputs.
This module will help you to develop an entrepreneurial mind-set with regards to developing yourself as an artist by building a visual branded online presence.
You are also able to research a wide variety of music industry professions, gaining insight and potentially helping you to choose your future music related career.
In this module, you will learn about the significance of various developments within the music industry.
It primarily focuses upon key facts, figures, events, artists and relevant technological developments, which have led/contributed to the current climate within electronic music.
In this module you will undertake a major research project in an area of your choosing.
It may take a variety of forms and is negotiated with support and feedback from module tutors who will discuss and approve project proposals.
BA (Hons) Digital Music Want to make club-ready tracks, or audio for top level games and film?
Hone your style using highly technical sound production skills, taught by established sound engineers and DJs.
Apply for BA (Hons) Digital Music with Foundation Year
BA (Hons) Popular Music Performance and Production Play and produce your tracks.
Combining performance techniques and studio recording skills, using digital and analogue studios, this degree is ideal to help launch your career in the music industry.
Apply for BA (Hons) Popular Music Performance and Production with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Popular Music Production Produce the perfect sounds in cutting-edge studios and collaborate with the community of creatives out of Southampton’s vibrant music scene.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Popular Music Production with foundation year

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/science-and-engineering:
Study a science and engineering foundation year at Solent University and develop your academic and subject specific skills, before starting your degree.
The Science and Engineering Foundation Year is the ideal way to prepare for degree study, with successful completion granting direct access to undergraduate engineering, yacht design or electronics degree courses.
By the time you start your degree course you will have acquired an essential portfolio of academic and subject specific skills, giving you the very best chance of achieving a high-level degree.
Modules of study include a group technology project, an exploration of information and analysis, a theoretical and applied look at concepts and processes within technology, and a project relating directly to your chosen degree path.
The degree-related project is undertaken with the support of academics who will be teaching on the degree programme you have chosen.
This ensures that the skills and knowledge you develop during the foundation year will be directly applicable to your degree studies.
Collaborative working is another key element.
From the start of the year, you’ll work on both individual and group work, helping you to meet fellow students and develop group working skills.
These are essential in the science and engineering industries, where cross-discipline working and teamwork are vital parts of delivering successful projects.
The Science and Engineering Foundation Year is intended for students without the UCAS points for direct entry.
This could be mature students returning to education, younger students without the required qualifications, or students looking to change career path after completing further education qualifications.
Throughout your time you'll benefit from a supportive and student-focused approach to learning.
The course team have significant experience working with students from a diverse range of academic and professional backgrounds.
Foundation years are taught in relatively small groups with a focus on individual development and 'learning by doing'.
This teaching style develops through the year, gently putting the emphasis on the learner in preparation for further study at degree level.
In this module you will develop a range of key skills and knowledge designed to help you develop the underpinning knowledge and skills for the remaining modules of the course.
This can be broadly categorised into: communication skills; collaborative skills; numeracy skills; information and communication technology skills and problem solving skills.
You will build on the Science and Engineering Foundation Skills module, exploring fundamental approaches to mathematics, such as numbering systems and Boolean logic.
You will study theoretical science and engineering related topics from a range of general areas related to the parent degrees supported by the course.
You will plan and undertake experiments, or validate numerical models, related to science and engineering related topics from a range of general areas related to the parent degrees supported by the course (these are outlined in more detail in the STEM Concepts and Processes (Theory) module).
This module is designed to help you to develop a range of transferable academic and career planning skills.
The learning on this module is primarily derived from an experiential approach, enabling you to apply the skills and knowledge from the other modules to the analysis of a real problem related to your interests.
Subject Tutor
BEng (Hons) Electronic Engineering
Apply for BSc (Hons) Electronic Engineering with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
Top 5 for student satisfaction.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Mechanical Engineering with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Renewable Energy Engineering
Apply for BSc (Hons) Renewable Energy Engineering with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Yacht and Powercraft Design
Plot a course for your engineering skills - specialise in naval architecture for power- and sail-craft.
Solent’s highly regarded degree is taught by experienced marine architects and designers.
Apply for BEng (Hons) Yacht and Powercraft Design with foundation year
BEng (Hons) Yacht Design and Production
Dream of designing race-winning yachts?
This unique course, with an international reputation, has been designed alongside industry experts to deliver the skills you need.
Apply for BEng (Hons) Yacht Design and Production with foundation year

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/social-sciences:
Explore the theories and concepts used in the social sciences during this foundation year, before delving deeper into the subject of your chosen undergraduate degree.
On this practical, career-focused foundation year, you’ll study a range of topics that are central or highly relevant to the study of the social sciences before progressing on to your chosen undergraduate degree - armed with the essential academic skills and broad foundation of knowledge.
You will explore areas such as mental health and wellbeing, crime, contemporary issues in social sciences, and professional practice to help prepare you for undergraduate study.
This course has an applied focus – you are encouraged and enabled to apply theoretical knowledge to real-world problems, including poverty, health inequalities, and the growing influence of technology.
During this foundation year, you’ll explore basic theories and concepts used in the social sciences and apply appropriate methods and working practices in a range of social scientific disciplines.
You’ll also be supported in developing your research and academic literacy skills, such as critical thinking and writing.
You’ll be taught by an experienced team who are accessible and approachable, and ultimately dedicated to providing an inclusive learning environment.
The Social Sciences Foundation Year is specifically designed for those wanting to study social sciences but who do not meet the entry requirements.
It’s also suitable for those who wish to refresh their academic skills and subject-specific knowledge before starting an undergraduate degree.
BSc (Hons) Criminal Investigation with Psychology
Understanding the motives behind criminal behaviour is key in investigating crime to explain criminality and to deliver justice.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Criminal Investigation with Psychology with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Criminal Investigation with Psychology with foundation year and year in industry
BA (Hons) Criminology
If you are curious about crime and justice with ambitions to shape society, this degree opens career opportunities in a range of roles across prisons and court services, policing, or investigation.
Apply for BA (Hons) Criminology with foundation year
Apply for BA (Hons) Criminology with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Criminology
Explore the world of crime and get behind the psychology of criminology and social justice, on this BPS Accredited degree.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Criminology with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Criminology with foundation year and industry year
BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology
This degree helps you develop critical perspectives on social behaviours, exploring justice, crime and inequality, to prepare you for a successful career and make a meaningful contribution to society.
Apply for BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling and Mental Health
Combine your skills in psychology and counselling to influence behaviour change and recovery on our BPS accredited degree.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling and Mental Health with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice
Apply for BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice with foundation year
Please note: To progress onto this programme, you must pass an interview at the end of the foundation year and have requisite English and maths qualifications.
BSc (Hons) Psychology
Psychology is about what makes people tick: it is the study of mind, behaviour, experience and relationships.
Become a Chartered Psychologist with our BPS accredited degree.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Sociology
Explore the fascinating behaviours of individuals, as well as the cultural and political issues that shape collective experiences, on this BPS accredited degree.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Sociology with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Psychology
Understanding performance and wellbeing is essential for helping athletes to cope with pressure and regulate their emotions.
Prepare for your future in sport psychology on this BPS accredited degree.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Psychology with foundation year
BA (Hons) Social Work
Make a positive change and pursue a fulfilling career in social work: on this degree you will gain the knowledge and practical experience key to making a difference to the lives of vulnerable people.
Please contact admissions
BA (Hons) Sociology
An exciting subject – sociology challenges the world in which we live, including politics, media and social inequality.
Get practical experience to work in education, PR, charity or government.
Apply for BA (Hons) Sociology with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Psychology and Sociology
Apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology and Sociology with foundation year

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/foundation/sport:
Start your sporting career with a sport foundation year.
From management, to performance, rehabilitation, or coaching, you'll develop your academic and practical skills before starting your degree.
Leading directly on to our highly regarded sports degrees, this one-year foundation programme will equip you with the skills you’ll need to progress on to a full degree.
Studying the Sport Foundation Year gives you an opportunity to extend previous experience gained or provide a route back into education.
The course will help you develop the key academic skills required to make the transition to studying a full honours degree.
Designed to reflect the needs of the sports industry, you’ll explore a variety of subjects, from leadership and fitness foundations, to sports business management, sport in the contemporary world, and volunteering.
You’ll study core theories in sport and fitness but, crucially, will learn how to apply this knowledge in practical settings – helping you develop the skills employers are looking for.
To enhance learning, you can build further skills by undertaking professional qualifications such as NGB and REPs.
You’ll also be able to assist some of our degree-level students with community projects through the volunteering module, gaining real world experience, as well as building confidence and employability skills.
The Sport Foundation Year is perfect for sports enthusiasts who wish to study for a full honours degree but might not meet the entry requirements.
Upon completion of the foundation year, students will be able to progress directly on to the first year of one of our sport-related undergraduate degrees.
In addition to learning the theories that underpin the subject of fitness in sport, you will engage with various topics and learning styles and opportunities.
Studying this module will provide you with a broad overview of the sport business and will enable you to develop subject-specific knowledge in several key areas such as operations, management, finance and marketing.
During this module you will learn about key definitions, theories and concepts of leadership including: leadership styles, theories of learning, becoming a leader, creating an environment, reflective practice, leading individuals and teams, how to develop athletes and safe and inclusive practice.
The module will focus on the personal and professional development opportunities available to enhance the key attributes that employers demand, covering both customer-facing and business-facing experiences.
In this module will focus on the contemporary issues in sport.
Teaching and learning will be led by issues highlighted in the academic arena, trade press and general media.
This module will introduce you to the wider sport, health and football industry and enable you to focus on the environments that relate more closely to your chosen degree in sport, health, or football.
BSc (Hons) Football Studies
Follow your football dreams with this industry-leading degree.
Working with our Southampton FC partners, gain the skills to join our graduates working for Premier League clubs, FIFA and the FA.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Football Studies with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Football studies with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education
Gain real-world skills, knowledge and experience, to prepare you for an impactful career in sports coaching and physical education.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching with foundation year
BSc (Hons) Sport Management
Develop your passion for sport, and progress to a successful career leading and managing sporting events and organisations on this CIMPSA-endorsed course.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Sport Management with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Sport Management with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Health, Nutrition and Exercise Science
Follow your passions for sport, and helping people reach their wellness goals.
Our certified course, fantastic facilities, and practical experience will foster a rewarding career in a growing sector.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Health, Nutrition and Exercise Science with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Health, Nutrition and Exercise Science with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science
Designed to deliver a successful career in the sport and exercise industry, this CASES-endorsed degree combines access to specialist facilities with professional placements and a hands-on approach.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science with foundation year and year in industry
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy
Help athletes stay at the top of their game with this SST-accredited degree.
Learn from clinically active staff and gain hands-on, real-world experience with placements at professional sports clubs.
Apply for BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy with foundation year
Apply for BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy with foundation year and year in industry

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/sport-at-solent/sport-education-partnership:
A support service designed to provide students with real-world learning development opportunities, while at the same time providing a valuable service to the schools and community groups in and around Southampton.
Situated in the Department of Sport and Health, the Sport Education Partnership programme supports numerous degree pathways.
We work closely with both course and module leaders to ensure that our programme continues to match the demands of the student population.
Here at Solent you will be provided with a first-class education, but if you really want to stand out from the crowd then enhancing your CV through volunteering and additional Continuous Professional Development (CPD) with us is the way forward.
We hope that you enjoy your time here and we look forward to being part of your educational journey.
The Sport Education Partnership will support you in gaining a variety of real-world learning opportunities that will enhance your career potential following the completion of your degree.
The team are on hand to provide you with advice and guidance on the most suitable programme and how this can support you in your academic studies.
Services that are currently available include:
Students who have engaged with these opportunities in the past have found them to be highly rewarding, and has provided them with the opportunity to put their academic understanding into practice.
We work closely with some of the UK's leading awarding bodies for sport and physical activity.
We’ve held accredited centre status with 1st4sport qualifications for many years.
Working closely on the delivery of sport and physical activity qualifications, providing added value to student development, and opportunities for staff and the public.
Active IQ is recognised as one of the UK’s leading awarding organisations for the active leisure, learning and wellbeing sector.
Students can gain industry recognised qualifications to enhance their employment potential.
Many of our sport courses are endorsed by CIMSPA, meaning they have been mapped to CIMSPA's professional standards.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/sport-at-solent/sport-partnerships:
We work with a number of local, regional and international partners to enhance the University sport experience and add value to the work we do with our community partners, such as Basketball England, BUCS and Energise Me.
We work closely with Hampshire FA, Southampton FC (girls and women's football), and Southern Vipers (women's cricket), helping to deliver extended sporting opportunities to the University and local community.
We work with a number of official partners to enhance the sporting offer here at Solent University.
Our long-standing partnership with Southampton FC has benefited our students through work experience placements and guest lectures.
We work with the PFA; BUCS, as a university member; TASS, as a dual career accredited centre; and UKAD to develop our performance sport programme.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/england-basketball-level-1:
The Basketball England Level 1 Award in Coaching Basketball has been replaced by the Introduction to Coaching Basketball Award.
This course has been developed to provide learners with the confidence to deliver safe, fun and inclusive basketball sessions under the supervision of an independent coach.
The Introduction to Coaching Basketball course is ideal for students, parent helpers, coaches in other sports, teaching assistants and physical activity leaders.
It has an accessible learning format consisting of e-learning, virtual classrooms and face to face learning and is underpinned by the principles of the Player Development Framework.
You must be aged 16 or above to participate in this course
16 hours.
Solent University offers an extensive programme of coach education courses, as well as a wide range of National Governing Body (NGB) qualifications.
Courses are open to Solent University staff, students, and the general public.
Candidates will be required to demonstrate an understanding and application of certain coaching techniques in an appropriate environment.
The assessment of the practical syllabus will be assessed by the course tutor on a minimum of one 15-minute coaching session, provided a good demonstration of the basic skills of basketball.
If you have any questions about the course or would like to register your interest in potential future open courses please email: coach.education@solent.ac.uk
Dodgeball Level 1 will provide you with the knowledge to deliver dodgeball sessions and understand the organisational skills necessary to introduce dodgeball to all abilities

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/boxing-pad-award:
The course is designed for people who wish to deliver pad work which can be delivered in schools, colleges, universities, youth and leisure centres and boxing clubs.
This course is ideal for qualified boxing tutors, personal trainers, boxing coaches or boxers.
You must be aged 18 or over to complete this course and you must know the foundation of boxing before booking.
You will be taught to deliver:
You must, in order to gain a certificate:
The course is designed for people who wish to teach the ABAE Boxing Awards.
These awards can then be delivered in schools, colleges, universities, youth and leisure centres and boxing clubs.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/boxing-tutor-award:
You must be aged 14 years or older to take part in this course.
8 hours.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/dodgeball-level-2:
The Level 1 Award in Coaching Dodgeball provides learners with the essential knowledge to use dodgeball as a vehicle to get groups active in a range of settings.
The course covers the correct rules, equipment, the sporting code, how to understand different groups and deliver effectively to them.
You must be aged 16 years or older to take part in this course.
4 - 8 hours
The role of the Level 1 coach is to ‘Assist more qualified coaches, delivering aspects of coaching sessions, normally under direct supervision’.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/level-3-emergency-first-aid-at-work:
This nationally recognised qualification is a must for those who have a specific responsibility for first aid in an emergency situation, as well as those who have a responsibility to provide basic first aid in community activities.
This course has no pre-requisites.
6 hours
In order to gain a certificate, you must:
This Level 4 Certificate will provide you with the skills and knowledge to be recognised as a sports massage therapist and further develop your skills base, allowing you to treat common patterns of dysfunction and pre-diagnosed injuries.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/active-iq-level-2-certificate-in-gym-instructing:
This Level 2 Certificate has been designed for individuals who wish to develop their skills and knowledge to work and/or seek employment as a gym instructor.
You'll be equipped with the skills to prescribe, plan and deliver safe and effective exercise programmes to a range of clients.
The accredited achievement is valued and recognised by employers and can assist learners to increase/enhance their career opportunities, progression and earning potential.
Successful achievement of this qualification will provide entry to the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) as an affiliate member (exercise and fitness).
Launched in 2011, CIMSPA is the professional development body for the UK's sport and physical activity sector.
CIMSPA was awarded chartered status by the Privy Council, which came into effect at the beginning of January 2012.
CIMSPA provides leadership, support and empowerment for professionals working in sport and physical activity and a single unified voice for the sector.
You must be over the age of 16
40 hours
This qualification will develop your gym instructing and personal training knowledge and skills to pursue a career in personal training.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/active-iq-level-3-diploma-in-exercise-referral:
This qualification will equip you with the knowledge and skills to ensure safe and effective exercise programming for patients with a number of medical conditions and common reasons for referral on to a community-based exercise referral scheme.
This accredited achievement is valued and recognised by employers and can assist learners to increase their career opportunities, progression and earning potential.
The qualification has been designed for individuals who wish to work and/or seek employment as fitness instructors and design and implement programmes of exercise for referred patients, as well as those considering a career in health and wellbeing in relation to physical activity for medically referred patients.
Individuals already working in the active leisure sector wishing to enhance career progression opportunities would also benefit from this qualification.
You must hold either a Level 2 Certificate in Fitness Instructing (Gym/Exercise to Music or Aqua), or equivalent, or one of the following: Level 3 Certificate in Personal Training, Level 3 Diploma in Instructing Pilates Matwork or Level 3 Diploma in Teaching Yoga.
240 hours
This Active IQ Level 3 Diploma will build on your existing skills in gym instruction, enabling you to pursue a career in personal training.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/active-iq-level-3-diploma-in-gym-instructing-and-personal-training:
The course will enable you to prescribe, plan and deliver safe and effective exercise programmes and personal training sessions to a range of clients.
This accredited achievement is valued and recognised by employers and can assist learners to increase or enhance their career opportunities, career progression and earning potential.
While there are no specific entry requirements, an element of communication (discussion, presenting, reading and writing) is involved, and those entering the programme should possess the basic communication skills pitched at Level 2.
The course requires physical exertion and individual participation is essential - therefore, a degree of physical fitness is necessary.
Successful achievement of this qualification will provide entry to the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) as a practitioner (exercise and fitness).
CIMSPA was awarded Chartered status by the Privy Council, which came into effect at the beginning of 2012.
CIMSPA provides leadership, support and empowerment for professionals working in sport and physical activity, and a single unified voice for the sector.
Learners must be over the age of 16
660 hours

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/active-iq-level-3-diploma-in-personal-training:
You gain a combination of knowledge and skills to prescribe, plan and deliver safe and effective exercise programmes and personal training sessions to a number of clients.
While there are no specific entry requirements, an element of communication (discussion, presenting, reading and writing) is involved, and those entering the programme should have basic skills in communication pitched at Level 2.
The course requires physical exertion, and individual participation is essential - therefore, a degree of physical fitness is necessary.
You must be over 16 years old and hold a Level 2 Fitness Instructing (Gym) qualification
430 Hours
Please register your interest in potential future open courses by emailing: kevin.warrington@solent.ac.uk
This Active IQ Level 4 Certificate will further develop your existing personal training skills and knowledge.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/active-iq-level-4-certificate-in-advanced-personal-training:
These enhanced skills will enable you to fully understand your clients, take an evidence-based approach to programming, and develop a successful and sustainable personal training business.
This accredited achievement is valued and recognised by employers and can help you increase and enhance your career opportunities, career progression and earning potential.
While there are no other specific entry requirements, you must be able to apply factual and theoretical knowledge, and use a range of cognitive and practical skills to come up with specific solutions for personal training clients.
This will require you to work in predictable and unpredictable situations using knowledge, skills and competencies pitched at Level 4 on the RQF.
You must be over 16 years old and hold a Level 3 Personal Training qualification
270 hours

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/active-iq-level-4-certificate-in-strength-and-conditioning:
This Active IQ Level 4 Certificate will enable you to develop your skills in planning, preparing, delivering and reviewing strength and conditioning programmes to help athletes achieve their performance goals.
The qualification has been designed for individuals working as personal trainers, sports coaches and strength and conditioning coaches.
You must be over 16 years old and hold a Level 3 Personal Training qualification, a Level 3 Coaching qualification (or equivalent), or a Level 3 Strength and Conditioning qualification (or equivalent).
You may also hold relevant higher education or further education qualifications equivalent to or higher than those listed above (eg, physiotherapy, sports therapy).
278 hours

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/active-iq-level-3-diploma-in-sports-massage-therapy:
This Active IQ qualification will provide you with the combination of skills and knowledge to be recognised as a qualified sports massage therapist.
The qualification is suitable for those who wish to pursue or further a career in sports massage, providing sports massage therapy to a wide range of clients, including sports performers, athletes and individuals suffering from day-to-day issues such as repetitive strain injury, sprains, tension and fatigue.
The qualification is recognised by the Complementary & Natural Care Council (CNHC) and the General Council for Massage Therapies (GCMT) .
The qualification has been designed for:
Successful achievement of this qualification will give individuals a licence to practice as a sports massage therapist and enables successful learners to access the massage register regulated by the CHNC.
Learners who achieve this qualification will have confirmed their competence in this occupational role.
This accredited achievement is valued and recognised by employers and can assist learners to increase/enhance their career opportunities, progression and earning potential.
While there are no specific entry requirements, an element of communication (discussing, presenting, reading and writing) is involved and learners should have basic skills in communication pitched at Level 3.
Performing sports massage is a physical activity and learners will need to be fit enough to carry this out.
You must be over the age of 16.
370 hours

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/coaching/active-iq-level-4-certificate-in-sports-massage-therapy:
This Active IQ Level 4 Certificate will provide you with the skills and knowledge to be recognised as a sports massage therapist and further develop your skills base and competencies, allowing you to treat and/or correct common patterns of dysfunction and pre-diagnosed injuries.
The qualification is suitable for those who wish to pursue or further their careers in sports massage, providing sports massage therapy to a wide range of clients, including sports performers, athletes and individuals with pre-diagnosed injuries.
The qualification will enable you to work as a sports massage therapist in a variety of organisations, such as sports massage and rehabilitation clinics, complementary health clinics, spas, coaching facilities, health and fitness facilities and sporting organisations/clubs.
Successful achievement of this qualification will give you access to the massage register regulated by the CHNC.
Learners who achieve this qualification will have confirmed their competence at Level 4.
You must be over 16 years and hold a Level 3 Diploma in Sports Massage Therapy (or equivalent)
190 hours

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/learning-at-solent/solent-curriculum:
Our learning and teaching is a thoughtful integration of in-person and digitally enhanced provision, within an inclusive environment.
Read the OfS blended learning panel report .
We believe an inclusive environment is a working, social and learning environment that intentionally promotes a culture of equality of opportunity and fair treatment; acknowledges, values, respects and celebrates difference; upholds and respects the dignity and rights of all staff, students and those connected with the University; one that actively strives to eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other uncivil conduct in order to enable everyone to reach their true potential.
At Solent, we endeavour to create and sustain an equitable and inclusive educational environment that adopts a Learning Design Framework (LDF) which is underpinned strategically by these commitments:
It achieves this through three mutually supportive strands, founded on a supportive bedrock of digital literacies.
Collaborative learning is the capstone of the LDF.
It is active and participative learning involving teaching staff, industry experts and peers.
Including and not limited to flipped-learning, co-creation, interactivity, and problem-based and active learning, Collaborative Learning can take place in any appropriate space and provides rich and varied opportunities for learning with and from others.
Directed learning ensures that students build and share foundational knowledge - the key concepts and theories structured and consolidated within subject-based and professional contexts and communities.
Through Directed Learning, all students engage with the threshold knowledge necessary to participate in their active campus- or online-based Collaborative Learning events.
Guided learning ensures students join up academic knowledge and real-world applications, enriching the student experience and adding value to their time at Solent.
Guided Learning enables students to engage in supplementary activities designed to improve their employability skills.
These include stimulating and topical engagements with internal and external speakers, experts, practitioners, alumni and employers, with opportunities to consider innovations, challenges and good practice.
Underpinning and enabling Solent’s LDF is our foundational work on digital literacies .
Our teaching practice and digital environments and tools together ensure all students build the essential digital fluency they need to thrive in their careers.
They also help staff build a consistent experience for students from which more focused subject-specific digital literacies can grow and develop.
Solent’s curriculum framework and LDF reflect our shared educational vision by reinforcing our unique, creative, dynamic, and applied approach to teaching.
We aim to positively transform students’ lives by developing learners who can make meaningful contributions for the betterment of society.
This is at the heart of our mission as a university.
We are motivated to continue improving and innovating through our Inclusive Real-World Curriculum, which is driven by our on-going commitment to promote equity and inclusion.
We use the 1 2 3+ model for planning delivery of the LDF:
1 hour directed learning per module, per week 2 hours collaborative learning per module, per week 3+ hours guided learning per course, per week
Inclusion is an ethical obligation anchored in social justice and the building of socially just communities that promote equity for all groups irrespective of their intersecting identities and/or characteristics.
This is reflected in educational policy, global agendas and contemporary discourse as essential in providing high quality educational experiences for all learners.
The concept of inclusion is at the heart of Solent’s IRWC.
The framework is underpinned by pedagogic theories and consists of six dimensions.
Critical, creative and applied Our curriculum challenges students to be critical and creative, and to apply theory to practice.
Through interaction with the global tapestry of knowledge systems, students will learn to identify the types of knowledge that exist, what informs their creation, and the extent to which various types of knowledge are related to each other.
We believe this will enable students to become perceptive consumers and trustworthy producers of both applied and theoretical knowledge that can be beneficial in transforming societies and producing real word solutions.
Inspiring research and inquiry Our curriculum is research led and will inspire students to ask questions, investigate problems, propose solutions and create new knowledge.
We will empower students with the tools, methods and thinking processes to read and evaluate current research and stimulate curiosity about research topics of their choice.
By working within a research community with academics who are engaged in research and inquiry and/or creative and applied projects themselves, our students will develop the requisite knowledge and skills to conduct their own research.
Outward facing As part of our social responsibility and contribution to social justice, our curriculum challenges students to contribute their knowledge, time and talents to the community in ways appropriate to their subjects.
Students will engage with global theories, develop a global outlook, and interact with local and international experts as part of their overall student experience.
Students will learn to work with industry professionals, and to link theory to practice in familiar and unfamiliar settings.
We will encourage employers to shape the curriculum and help students create networks beyond the university.
Social and personal growth Our curriculum is designed to promote student’s development by enabling them to achieve social and personal growth.
At Solent, students will engage with theory and a diverse range of knowledge to deepen their understanding of historic, contemporary, and future local, national, and international challenges and solutions.
Through engagement in curricula and co-curricular activities, students will be supported to develop as emotionally and culturally intelligent socially responsible citizens who challenge taken-for-granted assumptions, speak out against injustices and actively contribute towards social transformation.
This may enable students to become socially, culturally and emotionally intelligent graduates.
Authentic and engaging inclusive assessment Our assessments are inclusive and mirror disciplinary practices and real-world contexts in preparing students for the challenges of independent and team working, while enabling them to develop skills that will help them to succeed in the workplace.
Students will experience a diverse range of creative, engaging and meaningful assessment tasks which will contribute to their development as critically conscious thinkers and life-long learners.
Assessments will be scaffolded and grow in complexity, while enabling students to see the relationship between modules, years and stages if study.
Intellectually stimulating for life Our curriculum will trigger interest and inspire lifelong learning beyond university.
They aim to develop curious habits of mind, transcend cross-disciplinary boundaries, and engage students in debates and conversations which extends beyond the university setting.
We will inspire students to value learning for both their usefulness and their application, so that they will be able to see the relationship between knowledge (including theoretical and experiential knowledge) and their own development.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance/tuition-fees:
Which tuition fee you pay depends on your personal circumstances and whether you are a full-time or part-time student.
Below, you'll find tuition fee information for home students (living in the UK), EU students, and overseas students (outside of Europe).
Following the UK Government's confirmation that EU students without settled status will no longer be eligible for home fee status benefits, all EU students without settled status will be required to pay overseas/international fees.
For the fees for each course, please see the relevant course page, which you can find here:
Solent's courses
For more information, please see the relevant course page or contact admissions@solent.ac.uk.
Students who are living outside of the EU are known as overseas students for fee purposes.
How much overseas students pay depends on what level they are studying.
Pathway programme fees are detailed on the Solent University Pathway page .
Under the UK's points-based immigration system, universities sponsoring students must be sure that students have sufficient funds to meet the cost of their course fees and living expenses (as well as those of any accompanying family members) without working and without claiming state benefit.
All overseas applicants will be asked to pay 50% of their annual tuition fees acceptance prior to receiving a CAS.
This sum will be refundable only if an applicant is unable to secure the relevant UK visa and evidence of the refusal has been provided to the University.
The remaining tuition fees must be paid by dates as prescribed.
Additionally non-EEA students are required to pay a minimum of 50% of their tuition fees and enter into a payment plan for the remainder of their tuition fees prior to enrolment.
The total amount due is advised in your offer letter.
In the event of a non EEA student leaving before the scheduled winter break this sum is not refundable.
For non-EEA students withdrawing in any subsequent period the full annual tuition fee is retained by the University.
Other payment conditions are the same as those for other students.
Tuition fees are set annually based on the associated costs in relation to the delivery of your course, and take into consideration any Government restrictions or requirements.
The fee, once published, will be set for that year of entry, but may increase annually in line with the national inflation rates and subject to Government policy on higher education.
Any change will be applied to both new and continuing students, as appropriate.
Fees payable to external bodies are not set by the University and, as such, are beyond our control, resulting in any changes being passed to the student.
Students will be notified of any changes as soon as possible.
For the current fee details, please contact student.registry@solent.ac.uk
Please visit our finance and paying your fees page for information on paying your fees and available funding.
For students to be eligible for funding from Student Finance England, they must be studying on a course at a provider registered with the Office for Students (OfS).
Solent University has been registered by OfS in the register of English higher education providers.
For more information please visit: www.officeforstudents.org.uk .
Fee and payment regulations - home and island students
Fee and payment regulations - international students

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/cyber-security-technologist-hnc:
Gain the knowledge and professional skills required of a Cyber Security Technologist (Cyber Security Engineer) on this two year HNC programme.
Cyber security is a key issue across all aspects of our lives.
From developing fingerprint and facial recognition technologies for our smartphones, through to preserving the national security of our country, the role of the cyber security technologist has never been more significant or important.
During this Higher Nationals course, you’ll study areas including cyber security standards, network applications, problem solving through programming and routing and switching – all taught by a dedicated and experienced course team.
At Solent we place great value in connecting you with the wider computing industry.
You will encounter real case studies and be exposed to the ways that technologies and associated practices happen in real-life working contexts.
Further industry exposure will come in the form of talks and lectures from practitioners.
Furthermore, you may also undertake industry visits to see how practice is applied in the context of a real working environment.
Upon successful completion you may choose to progress onto the BSc (Hons) Cyber Security degree at Solent.
This course is part of the South Coast Institute of Technology (IoT), a partnership of colleges, universities and industry-leading employers to create new career opportunities in the technology sector.
IoT courses like this one are precisely tailored to the needs of employers in the maritime, engineering and digital industries – industries which are hungry for talented new engineers, technologists, technicians and creatives like you.
Part of:
This course is part of the South Coast Institute of Technology, a collaboration of FE colleges and universities offering courses that can lead to a wide range of exciting career pathways to boost employability.
Higher Technical Qualification
This course is recognised as a HTQ equivalent.
HTQs will provide technical skills training alongside an academic qualification such as a HNC or FdSc.
This course is open to a wide range of learners of all ages and backgrounds who are looking to make the steps to move into a career in cyber security technology.
Cyber Security Technologists are found in all sectors and organisations that employ technology, for example Digital, Telecoms, Technology, Business Services, Defence, Government, Finance, Health, Retail, Critical National Infrastructure, Transport, Automotive sectors; and in all types and sizes of organisation including large corporates, public sector bodies, academic institutions, charities, and small and medium enterprise (SME).
Typical job titles include: Cyber Security Engineer, Cyber Security Consultant, Cyber Security Architect, Cyber Security Analyst, Cyber Security Specialist, IT Security Technician, Embedded Engineer.
The course makes use of Solent’s excellent EC Council certified security and specialist networking labs, which feature a wide variety of real-world equipment from Cisco (including Cisco Packet Tracer), Fluke and HP, as well as high-fidelity simulation systems including the market-leading Opnet.
You’ll also have access to our devices lab, a special test area integrated within one of our existing software development spaces.
It consists of a range of real mobile devices, allowing students to test their web sites and apps on real equipment.
In this module you will be introduced to the importance of cyber security.
Studying concepts including; basic security theory and security assistance, the basic techniques for application of security concepts; and the role of ethical hackers.
On this module you will be introduced to the importance of Cyber Security along with the concepts of basic security assurance.
We will address the standards that organisations are expected to adhere to in establishing Cyber Security compliance.
It will look at the policies and procedures that organisations must establish to ensure that their IT infrastructure is secured from all threats.
In this module you’ll explore networks by using a network simulator to learn what devices and connections are used.
These will then be applied to various principles of networking, protocols and associated technologies.
This module investigates the function and management of operating systems and the services that run on networks to facilitate this communication between systems.
This module will introduce you to software implementation through the process of understanding how to solve problems using programming.
To prepare for the network transition towards controller based activities, this module will prepare you with the knowledge of foundational technologies, ensuring you stay relevant with skill sets.
UK digital industries are now worth more than £150 billion ( TechUK ) and the cybersecurity market worldwide is projected to reach £140.80bn in 2024 ( Statista ).
With the internet and computer networking playing such a vital role in modern business, this course focuses on how to protect computer networks and data from hackers and cyber attacks, and equips you with a range of in-demand skills augmented with professional qualifications.
Starting salary: £25,000 to £35,000
Experienced or senior analysts can expect to earn around £35,000 to in excess of £60,000.
Salaries may vary depending on the type of organisation you work for and in which sector.
Compulsory costs
16 points minimum at level 3 from either 6-unit or 3-unit awards
Applications for part-time courses are made directly to the University and can be made at any time prior to the start of the course.
If you have any questions about applying for this course, please contact the admissions office by emailing admissions@solent.ac.uk .
Applications are welcomed from students who do not have the academic qualifications listed above but may be admitted on the basis of relevant experience rather than standard qualifications.
Important note about progression routes:
Progression to a Pearson Higher National Diploma (HND) qualification is not automatically available after completion of this Higher National Certificate (HNC) course.
Solent’s HNC is awarded under a Trademark Licence and the final award from this course, although mapped closely to Pearson’s programmes, is not a Pearson BTEC Higher National award.
Candidates wishing to progress onto a course at another provider may need to complete additional modules or check with the provider if acceptance to the progression course will be available with the HNC award.
Many providers offer recognition of prior learning, but this will be on a case by case basis.
Students graduating from Solent do have progression routes at Solent University to degrees or to other professional qualifications.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/data-analyst-hnc:
Gain the problem solving skills and technical know-how to kick-start a career in the data analysis field.
Analysts are typically involved with managing, cleansing, abstracting and aggregating data, and conducting a range of analytical studies on that data.
The worldwide growth in the collection of data and subsequent supply of information from this data has been phenomenal.
Many organisations are experiencing a shortage of the skills required to perform this analysis.
This course is intended to equip you with the problem-solving skills and technical knowledge required for a career in this area.
During this Higher Nationals course, you will explore a broad range of areas, such as problem solving, statistics, programming and systems analysis as well as databases and data analysis, analytics as well as aspects of data science allowing you to develop your professional knowledge in your area of work.
Data analysts tend to be involved in collecting, organising and analysing data to provide business insight and information for business advantage.
Throughout your studies you will have the opportunity to use our modern ICT labs featuring a full range of technology and software packages.
Upon successful completion of this course, you will achieve an HNC Data Analyst qualification.
This course is open to a wide range of learners of all ages and backgrounds who are looking to make the steps to move into a career in data analysis.
IT generally is a massive growth area - now the largest sector in the UK economy.
Employability prospects are likely to be very high - with the additional opportunity to progress onto Level 5 of an existing degree programme within the Computing area at Solent.
Typical job titles include: Data analyst; Departmental data analyst; Energy data analyst; Junior analyst; Marketing data analyst; Problem analyst
Throughout your studies you’ll have access to our technology labs and software packages to support and aid your learning.
Through this module students will learn the basics of being safe online, learn about different types of malware and attacks, and how organizations are protecting themselves against these attacks and explore the legal and ethical issues and career options in cybersecurity.
This module offers you the opportunity to bring together all your knowledge and skills into a real-world based project of your choice.
The module covers data life cycle process, collecting, cleaning, processing, analysis and interpretation.
A number of different technologies and processes will be used including: types of data, data collection and processing, legal and ethical Issues, quantitative measurement and probability, data visualisation, cluster analysis, regression analysis, trendlines analysis and decision analysis.
In this module you are introduced to the skills and concepts required to develop and use relational databases.
You will learn how to write programs interacting with databases and how to create them.
This module will provide you with a fundamental understanding of core principles of data including understanding the different types of data, data quality, lifecycle and architecture along with an overview of the main legislation, security and ethics when collecting, storing and processing data.
You will also look at the information requirements of organisations and explore how to model, analyse and present the data to meet those requirements.
In doing so, you will use basic numerical and statistical techniques, languages, and tools.
Systems analysis is a project-driven process that ensures that information systems are designed, developed and maintained in ways that provide optimum value to companies and clients.
Graduate scheme entry level: £25,000 to £30,000
With a few years' experience, salaries can rise to between £30,000 and £35,000.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/network-engineer-hnc:
Computer networks are an integral part of almost every organisation and business, this course helps prepare you with the skills and know-how to work in this fast-moving industry.
The demand for people who can manage, build, maintain virtual and physical networks is increasing.
This is because of technological developments such as, 5G and Cloud.
The broad purpose of the occupation, network engineer is to install computer networks, maintain them, and offer technical support to users where necessary.
A network engineer provides networks and systems to deliver the objectives of varied organisations.
They will make sure that systems are working at optimum capacity and problem solve where they are not.
To be able to do this effectively a network engineer must interpret technical information and understand organisational requirements and expectations.
During this Higher Nationals course you’ll study a wide range of subjects, including cyber security essentials, network applications, and routing and switching – all helping you prepare for your future career path.
We place great value in connecting you with the wider computing industry.
You will encounter case studies and be exposed to the ways that technologies and associated practices happen in real-life working contexts.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake industry visits to see how practice is applied in the context of a real working environment.
Upon successful completion of the course, you may choose to progress onto the BSc (Hons) Computer Networks Engineering degree at Solent.
This course is open to a wide range of learners of all ages and backgrounds who are looking to make the steps to move into a career in network engineering.
Employability prospects are likely to be very high - with the additional opportunity to progress onto Level 5 of an existing degree programme within the computing area at Solent.
Typical job titles include: desk based engineer, dynamic network engineer, field based engineer, infrastructure engineer, network administrator, network architect, network engineer, and systems engineer.
As a network engineer student here at Solent, you’ll have access to our full range of technology labs and software packages.
These include our CISCO certified networking and security labs, the E-C Council lab, media technology labs, development centres and usability testing environments.
According to Tech Nation's 2024 report, the UK tech sector was valued at £784billion at the start of 2024, making it the leading tech ecosystem in Europe.
CompTIA's State of the Tech Workforce UK 2024 report showed that the sector employed 2.1 million workers in 2023, with employment to increase by nearly 2% in 2024 - meaning employability prospects for network engineers are likely to be high.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/construction-quantity-surveying-hnc:
Develop the knowledge and skills you need to commence a career in the construction industry as a cost manager.
On this Higher Technical Qualification you’ll gain an understanding of the practicalities of managing construction costs from project inception to completion, predominately focusing on meeting the needs of main contractors and sub-contractors.
The programme offers an element of flexibility, allowing students to study part-time to gain the Higher National qualification alongside their busy careers.
Throughout your studies you’ll explore a range of areas including legal and statutory requirements and principles of quantity surveying.
At the heart of the course is the development of problem-solving skills.
You will be supported to develop this knowledge to assist in providing sound and justified management advice and guidance relating to production in a variety of different formats.
The course team have extensive industry experience, and a strong network of industry contacts, which has given past students access to guest speakers, live briefs and site visits.
We're proud to be one of only three institutions to be shortlisted for the Best HE Provider Supporting Careers in Construction award at the 2025 Building the Future Awards.
This course is primarily aimed at those who are interested in the day to day practicalities of managing the costs of works packages on a development, or smaller projects on their own and are looking to develop their career.
This course will supplement your skills for a career path in any of the broad areas that encompass quantity surveying, estimating and buying within the contracting side of the construction industry.
The industry-focused and practical emphasis of the course will develop your professionalism and maximise your career development opportunities.
You will be taught by a team of enthusiastic and approachable academics.
All academics are current members of the Chartered Institute of Builders (CIOB), Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE), the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) or the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA).
The course team have extensive industry experience gained during time spent in various construction roles.
The team draw on this experience to continually improve the curriculum and maximise learning opportunities.
You’ll benefit from free access to a range of industry standard facilities.
These include a dedicated drawing studio, two construction laboratories, a wide range of levelling and surveying equipment and professional software packages.
This module will help you develop an understanding of the ethos and expectations associated with this level of study and equip you with a range of graduate skills that are transferable to later postgraduate study and employability.
This module has two distinct parts, the first will introduce taking-off, drawing and numerical processes and procedures commonly used in construction.
The second will introduce the principles of construction surveying and applications in construction management practice.
You will be able to utilise the different construction technologies and methods available to you successfully, it is fundamental that you have an understanding for the scientific principles and material behaviour that underpins them and influences their use in construction.
This module addresses the technology used in the construction of low-rise buildings including light industrial buildings and low-rise commercial buildings.
It also introduces the different technological concepts used to enable the construction of building elements; from substructure to completion.
The module starts with a look at the nature of law in England and Wales, including types of law, how laws are created and an outline of the court system.
A particular focus will be on contract law.
Working in groups you will consider a project brief applying resources and techniques to discuss and make alternative suggestions for the project to produce a more efficient, innovative and sustainable approach.
This module has two distinct parts; the first introduces you to the business and organisational environment that construction managers and quantity surveyors operate within.
The second introduces you to the roles, procedures and practices associated with professionals within the built environment especially quantity surveyors.
Effective site management skills are at the heart of the construction industry.
With industry output worth over £110 billion per annum and contributing 7% to UK gross domestic product, construction offers a huge variety of opportunities, with excellent salaries.
And with the announcement of major infrastructure projects such as the Lower Thames Crossing, a new nuclear power station at Sizewell C, in addition to house building targets of 1.5 million new properties by 2029, there is a huge demand for construction project managers.
The breadth of the industry ensures you can work on a huge range of projects, and with the knowledge and skills you gain with us, you can be involved in all stages.
Graduates: £21,000 to £28,000
Newly trained chartered surveyors can earn around £25,000 to £35,000.
With experience, you can earn around £35,000 to £55,000.
Salaries at management level range from around £50,000 to in excess of £80,000.
The tuition fees for the 2025/26 academic year are not yet available.
For guidance, the 2024/25 fees were:
16 points minimum at level 3 from either 6-unit or 3-unit award

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/construction-management-practice-hnc:
Gain the effective site-management and problem solving skills to kick-start a career in construction management.
This Higher Nationals course supports you to develop the knowledge and skills required to start a career in the construction industry at supervisory level.
Problem solving skills, professional communication, and use of industry standard equipment and software are embedded throughout, ensuring you are well prepared for your future career upon graduation.
Throughout the course you'll study a range of exciting modules, including Technology of Buildings and Innovating the Construction Project, while benefiting from studying in our industry-standard facilities including the state-of-the-art teaching and learning building, The Spark, and the construction materials lab.
To enable you to put what you learn into context, the course has close links with the industry.
This has meant that students have had the opportunity to work on live project briefs and visit a number of active sites to interact with the construction project team.
Academics also regularly draw on their vast industry experience throughout their teaching, enabling you to learn from real-life scenarios.
HTQ courses are designed to be work-oriented courses that create learners who are work-ready and can take on highly skilled jobs.
This course is primarily aimed at those who are interested in the day to day practicalities of managing works packages on a development, or smaller projects on their own and are looking to develop their career.
This course is ideal if you are working in the construction industry and are looking to further your career.
With opportunities to study alongside other professionals on a part-time basis, this construction management programme will support you as you develop your knowledge and build the practical skills required for advanced industry roles.
Students benefit from free access to a range of industry standard facilities.
These include a dedicated drawing studio, two dedicated construction laboratories, a wide range of levelling and surveying equipment and professional software packages.
This module is very important to your training as a construction manager as it introduces you to the basics of construction project management, within the business and organisational environment that construction managers operate.
Starting salary: £27,000 to £33,000
Experienced construction managers can earn between £33,000 and £55,000.
16 points minimum at level 3 from either 6-unit or 3-unit awards.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/health-care-play-specialism-apprenticeship-fdsc:
Gain the knowledge, skills and behaviours necessary to practice as a health play specialist, supporting infants, children and young people through their healthcare journey.
This FdSc Health Care Play Specialism offers the opportunity for those with a background in childcare to gain the skills and experience required to practice as a Health Play Specialist.
Throughout the programme, you’ll be guided by an experienced and approachable course team, who draw on their professional experience within their teaching.
You will explore areas such as the interdisciplinary study of the development of children and young people, including policies, practices and issues affecting them.
The physical and mental welfare of human beings in their social and cultural context.
Upon successful completion, you’ll achieve a foundation degree in health care play specialism and be able to register with the Healthcare Play Specialist Education Trust.
You can study this course anywhere in the world.
The course will be delivered through online study
This course is ideally suited to those with a background in level 3 childcare or a related field, looking to progress into health care play specialism roles in hospitals, child development centres, hospices, or within community paediatric teams.
Many health play specialists work in hospitals, but others are employed in child development centres, hospices, or within community paediatric teams.
With experience, you could progress to team leader or team manager.
You could also train in other healthcare professions, such as nursing or occupational therapy.
The syllabus for this module will reflect the developmental journey that underpins the world of direct practice within the Health Play Specialist environment.
This module will directly draw upon your practice experiences through Work-Based Learning: subject to an agreed contract of learning.
This contract will recognise, encourage, and embrace the true potential of your professional aspirations at this stage in your development.
You will learn from this module skills in investigating therapeutic play and recreation in healthcare.
This will include investigating the appropriateness of different activities and resources used in play and recreation.
To enable this, you will develop study skills relating to Information gathering, locating sources of evidence, and critically evaluating evidence.
The module will provide you with a theoretical perspective on play and recreation.
It will explore the historical development of play and recreation within hospitals and the valuable role of therapeutic play and recreation in healthcare settings.
You will learn how therapeutic play can be used to help children understand their illness better and how you can help prepare them for treatment.
You will also explore the right of the child to play for its own sake and how to provide an environment conducive to play.
Students on this module will acquire theoretical knowledge of the relevant policy, guidelines, legislation and codes of conduct necessary for effective practice in the provision of therapeutic and recreational play as a healthcare play specialist.
In this module you will get the opportunity to learn about the stages of child development with a focus on cognitive development, psycho-social and emotional theories, mental health, and the interaction between the environment and a child’s development.
In this module, you will learn about what leadership means in the HPS role, to prepare you for practice in the provision of therapeutic and recreational play.
You will learn to think as a leader, integrating this with other aspects of your practice.
Topics covered in the module will include, management theory and models, organisational structures and culture.
Leadership styles and how to manage change.
Effective communication and information management.
How to facilitate decision making and problem solving.
Through this module you will develop a theoretical understanding of the experience of healthcare for children and young people, the importance of resilience in healthcare settings and the factors that affect resilience.
You will explore emotional wellbeing and how using play will enhance emotional wellbeing, emotional intelligence and providing emotional and psychosocial support.
During this module you will explore key themes such as how children are socialised and how social influences impact upon them.
You will consider how childhood has been constructed, how this has changed over time, and how it differs across cultures.
We will also look at the extent to which children and young people are protected or allowed independence.
How government interventions are targeted to address societal issues affecting children including poverty and deprivation as well as the provision of educational support will be investigated.
This module will cover basic concepts of anatomy, physiology and common interventions used in the management of a variety of childhood and adolescent conditions.
You will study the broader concepts of health and wellbeing and the importance of health promotion and adopting healthy lifestyles.
This module will draw directly upon your practice experiences through Work-Based Learning: and will be subject to a new, agreed contract of learning.
This contract will extend opportunities for you to engage with the “macro” impact of your increasingly sophisticated professional role.
A foundation degree in healthcare play specialism is a requirement to become a health play specialist and leads to registration with the Healthcare Play Specialist Education Trust.
You'll create a welcoming and safe environment and organise play activities to help children prepare for operations or other clinical procedures.
You could also apply to train in other healthcare professions, such as nursing or occupational therapy.
Starting salary (NHS band 3): £20,330 to £21,777
Qualified health play specialists can earn between £22,549 and £24,282 (band 4), rising to between £25,655 and £31,534 for more senior roles (band 5).
Team leads and professional leads can earn between £32,306 and £39,027 (band 6).
Applicants will need to provide evidence of their ability to study at foundation degree level.
A GCSE at grade C or above in English (or equivalent) are essential.
Applications for this course are made directly to the University and can be made at any time prior to the start of the course.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/health-and-social-care-nursing-associate-fdsc:
Become a skilled nursing associate in an incredible profession, with fantastic career prospects in a range of different healthcare settings on our NMC-accredited course.
This challenging and fulfilling course is a NMC-accredited foundation degree which, upon successful completion, allows registration to the NMC as a nursing associate.
You will gain knowledge, skills and behaviours that allow you to work in a variety of healthcare settings including adult, paediatrics, mental health and learning disabilities in both the community and hospital settings.
Working in healthcare is an inspiring, challenging and rewarding occupation where no day is ever the same.
This course will equip you with the knowledge, skills and behaviours to support your career development in healthcare.
At Solent University, we have strong and dedicated local industry links with practice partners who support our students both during and after their studies.
Working in healthcare is an exciting, fulfilling and satisfying career, and the ever changing healthcare environment drives the development of healthcare roles - giving the opportunity for lifelong learning.
This course is suitable for those who want to work in a healthcare setting, who feel they have the qualities and philosophy required to become a caring, effective, professional and safe practitioner.
Trainee nursing associates should demonstrate the following values:
This is a new and exciting role to support the nursing family, with future opportunities to progress to become a Registered Nurse for those who have the aspiration and ability to do so.
Once qualified, nursing associates will be able to work in a range of settings within the healthcare environment.
We have a dedicated clinical skills suite with a six bed ward, GP consulting room, nurse’s treatment room, waiting area/break out space, care home bedroom and working kitchen and bathroom.
There is a wide range of clinical equipment including simulation manikins to facilitate a number of simulated scenarios.
You will learn about the biology of the main body systems, focusing on anatomy, physiology and pathology.
You will also explore how the body systems interact to maintain homeostasis and gain an understanding of cellular function within the human body.
The module will explore accountability within health and social care by examining lessons learned from public inquiries and critical practice incidents.
As a foundational introduction to higher education, this module provides an opportunity for you to develop skills in academic reading and critical writing.
It also provides knowledge, and promotes understanding, of key concepts in health and social care practice such as effective communication and equality in care settings.
This knowledge underpins your practice and helps with skills development to enable you to work in a wide range of health and social care settings.
This module aims to promote your understanding of the responsibilities, challenges and limitations of your professional role as a Trainee Nursing Associate (TNA).
It will focus on key topics such as: evidence-based and person-centred care to support decision-making; practising under the direct supervision of a registered practitioner and timely completion of occupational standards linked to the TNA role including safe administration of medicines.
This module will explore contemporary approaches to public health and examine the historical origins of the discipline in Britain which lie in the 19th century industrial age and the movement of populations from countryside to crowded cities.
Public health utilises epidemiological and demographic data, and you will be introduced to the calculation of simple public health measures.
Understanding the social determinants of health and the contribution of these to health inequalities entails new ways of thinking about social and economic organisation and governance in Britain.
Public health expertise is increasingly important in diverse and complex 21st century societies and this module will help you to develop this expertise and apply it to your workplace role.
This module aims to support development of your knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours when caring for people with long-term conditions.
You will explore the pathophysiology and aetiology of commonly occurring long-term conditions, the impact of the condition on an individual’s and family life, consider patient needs in community settings and explore patient transitions between different healthcare settings.
This module bridges care practice and academic study.
It is strongly theoretical, focusing on a diverse array of concepts underpinning modern health and social care practice.
It is also practical and explores the application of ideas and theories to practice.
You will learn technical content (codes of practice, care legislation, professional registration, end-point assessment) as well as content focused on personal and professional growth (reflection, accountability, dealing with loss, inter-professional practice)
This module will examine the biological basis of disease exploring pathophysiological response to disease including fever, inflammation, cell signalling processes, cellular adaptations, cell transformation, proliferation, apoptosis, ischaemia, necrosis and impact of disease on the cell cycle.
Like its year 1 version - this is a wide-ranging module focusing on a diverse array of topics.
It further explores expectations and limitations of the Trainee Nursing Associate (TNA) role.
This module will enable you to develop the skills and knowledge to identify, plan and implement a small-scale project which will enhance or improve patient experience or service provision.
This module  will help you apply knowledge of teamwork, leadership theories and principles of equality to practice and equip you for future responsibilities supervising and assessing others in accordance with occupational standards.
Nursing associates play a key role in a nursing team, bridging the gap between health and care assistants and registered nurses.
They work with people of all ages, in a variety of settings in health and social care.
The course team has developed this programme in partnership with partner NHS Trusts and other health and social care providers, ensuring graduates are equipped with the necessary skills for employment in a number of health and social care settings.
You will have the ability, skills and knowledge to work in a range of healthcare settings, including adult, paediatrics, mental health and learning disabilities in both the community and hospital settings.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/health-and-social-care-health-care-assistant-practitioner-fdsc:
Working as part of the wider health and social care team, healthcare assistant practitioners provide care for service users within the healthcare industry.
You will learn about the role of the healthcare assistant practitioner in a range of different health and social care settings and develop a highly-valued professional skill set that can be applied on practice placements, and in your eventual health and social care workplace.
Further your career and understanding of healthcare related topics such as communication, anatomy and physiology and public health.
Assistant practitioners work at a level above that of healthcare support workers and have a more in-depth understanding of factors that influence health and ill-health.
This course is ideal for someone looking to start or further develop their career in healthcare, who does not want to train in a regulated health profession.
Assistant practitioners work in a variety of roles in healthcare, including supportive roles in nursing, operating theatres, biomedical science laboratories, occupational therapy, physiotherapy, mental health, social care, rehabilitation services and radiology.
This module aims to promote your understanding of the responsibilities, challenges and limitations of your professional role as a healthcare assistant practitioner (HCAP).
In this module you will extend your understanding of how evidence-based approaches to health care can be used in decision-making about the care of individual patients or the delivery of health services.
Like its level 4 version - this is a wide-ranging module focusing on a diverse array of topics.
It further explores expectations and limitations of the Healthcare Assistant Practitioner (HCAP) role.
The module will allow students to consider concepts of assessing, treating and planning the discharge of patients in relation to physiotherapy and occupational therapy.
Assistant practitioners work alongside registered healthcare professionals in providing high quality and person-centred compassionate healthcare and support to individuals.
On a daily basis, assistant practitioners will assist registered healthcare professionals in total patient assessment, and in the coordination of care (including referrals to other practitioners), as well as undertaking clinical, diagnostic and therapeutic activities according to local population and service needs.
Assistant practitioners could work in hospitals, clinics or in the community, such as GP surgeries.
You may visit patients in their homes or in residential care.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/how-to-apply:
Applicants who choose Solent University as their first choice and who hold an unconditional firm (UF) or conditional firm (CF) offer to study in September 2025 will be able to submit an online application for University accommodation from mid March 2025 (date to be confirmed).
Applicants who are holding a UF or CF offer will receive information by email from with details on how to apply.
Emails will be automatically sent in advance of applications opening to all eligible applicants.
Rooms will be allocated from April and you will be informed of the allocation from May/June onwards - this date is subject to change.
Rooms will be allocated in date order from when the application was received.
To apply online you must have:
Any student on a full-time undergraduate, postgraduate or exchange programme can apply online for accommodation at Solent University.
You cannot apply online if you are a visiting or non-Solent University student.
Apply now
Here, we look at each stage of the accommodation process, from initial application right through to the day you actually move into your new home.
Complete an online application as soon as possible to secure your place in the student residences.
If you are still holding a conditional study offer when the room offer is given, it is on the assumption you will achieve the exam results you require to study with us.
Please see our allocation policy for more information.
We'll then email you a link to our online booking system to view your offer of accommodation.
To accept your offer of accommodation you'll need to choose a payment plan and make an advance rent payment by credit or debit card.
This advance rent payment is not a deposit and will be taken off your overall accommodation fees for the year.
If you've requested a car parking space you will receive a separate parking offer.
To accept this offer you will need to make full payment for the full contract period.
Typically, car parking offers are sent to applicants in August.
Once you have accepted your room offer and made the advanced rent payment you will able to view and print your formal contract for your records.
If after accepting your room you find you are no longer going to be joining us, please contact accommodation@solent.ac.uk as soon as possible so we can advise you of the cancellation process.
A couple of weeks before you are due to start with us you will be invited to complete the accommodation online induction.
This short activity is designed to give you all the essential information that you will need before you move into University accommodation.
You will also be able to book your arrival date and time, access your key collection documents, and get directions to your student residence.
On the day you arrive, show your key collection form to the relevant member of staff at the residence and bring photographic proof of identity with you.
You will then be given your keys and/or access cards.
If you have been allocated a parking space, you will also need to show your parking permit collection documents to obtain a permit to be displayed in your vehicle and fob access for the car park.
Please note: car parking is unavailable at residences until after move-in week - typically two to five days after the start of your accommodation contract.
During this period you will need to make alternative arrangements to park your car.
For more information about settling into your new home, please see our online accommodation induction , moving in guide or contact the Accommodation Team .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/moving-in:
New residents are able to move into their new homes from 11 September between 9am and 8pm.
If you are concerned about any aspect of your moving in day, please don't hesitate to contact the accommodation team by email or over the phone on 023 8201 5040.
Don't forget to complete the online accommodation induction before arriving - it's designed to give you all the essential information you need before you move into your new home.
Download the residences handbook to find all the information you'll need for living in student residences, including key contact information, what to do in an emergency, and what you can find in your room/kitchen.
Download the handbook
Car parking at the student residences is very limited and becomes congested very easily.
To assist with traffic congestion, students who are bringing cars for the year will be unable to park their cars in the residence parking until the start of their car parking contract.
Please check your car parking offer for this date.
Those students bringing a car for the day are asked to unload their possessions and move their car to one of the local car parks as soon as possible.
Students moving away from their family homes for the first time may find that they don't already own everything they need to live independently.
This short guide highlights some of the common items that you will most likely want to bring with you.
Information on what to bring when moving into halls
There are several important things that you will need to know about your room before you move in.
This page contains information about insurance, internet connections, TV licensing and the University's smoking policy.
Extra information about your room

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/care-and-support:
Solent University offers a range of support services to students living in student residences.
If you need support with any aspect of your stay in University accommodation, please email accommodation@solent.ac.uk , or give us a call on 023 8201 5040 .
We aim to remove barriers to learning and help you to enjoy the full use of all facilities here at Solent.
We have made a significant investment in facilities for disabled students.
We have a limited number of purpose-built rooms on the ground floor of Kimber residence.
For those with unseen disabilities, rooms can be reserved and fridges for medical purposes and visible or audible alarms can be fitted.
We can also offer larger rooms for students who may just need extra space for essential equipment.
Staff are happy to discuss any specific requirements you might have.
It's a good idea to get in touch before you begin studying so that we can offer early advice and make any necessary arrangements.
If you have any further enquiries, please email accommodation@solent.ac.uk or call the enquiry desk on 023 8201 5040 .
There is a warm welcome awaiting everyone who comes to study with us from overseas.
You will be sent an email inviting you to apply for accommodation online.
If you want to live in student residences, fill out the online application form as soon as you are invited to do so.
There is no payment to be made when you submit an application.
To accept any room offer, if you are accepting a room offer before 1 September, you will need to make an advanced rent payment of £1,000, with the balance of accommodation fees paid in two instalment on 1 September and 1 February.
Room offers accepted after 1 September will be paid in two instalments, one at the time of accepting the contract and the second on 1 February.
For students who are bringing their family or would prefer to rent a private property, the Accommodation Team will be pleased to provide you with any advice you may need.
Our private accommodation pages can provide you with information on finding alternative student accommodation here in Southampton.
For information or help with any other aspect of your course application, please contact the international enquiries team .
The University recognises that safe, secure, affordable accommodation is particularly important for young people leaving care.
If you decide you would prefer to live off campus in your first or subsequent years, we can provide information and guidance for finding accommodation.
Our private accommodation pages provide you with details about finding accommodation in the private sector.
For more information you can contact the Accommodation Team using accommodation@solent.ac.uk , or give us a call on 023 8201 5040 .
For specialist help from the University's student support services, please visit our care leaver support page .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/private-sector:
Southampton has a competitive accommodation market so it’s important to do your research before you are ready to rent.
We recommend you read and understand the scope of them before committing to a contract.
Take a look at our guide to finding housing in the private sector for more information.
In partnership with the University of Southampton and Southampton City Council, we have compiled an accredited directory of private student accommodation in Southampton and the surrounding area.
The scheme is called SASSH (Southampton Accreditation Scheme for Student Housing) .
SASSH sets out certain criteria that a landlord must meet and agree to maintain, such as having valid gas and electricity safety certificates and smoke detectors.
By using SASSH you can view properties and contact landlords directly to organise viewings.
You can also make use the message board , where you can message other students who are looking for a housemate.
The accreditation scheme is voluntary and landlords self assess their properties based on the SASSH criteria.
Southampton City Council runs two different houses in multiple occupation (HMO) licensing schemes.
As part of the HMO scheme, the Council will inspect the property on application.
You can find out more about the scope of the HMO schemes on the Southampton City Council website .
When considering a property, we strongly advise you to arrange to view it first.
If it's not possible to do this in person, either yourself or someone doing it on your behalf, you may be able to arrange a virtual viewing using Skype or Zoom.
This will help you ensure that:
Before you sign anything, make sure you're satisfied with what’s being offered and that you understand your rights and obligations as a tenant.
For advice and free contract checking, please contact the private sector housing adviser on private.housing@solent.ac.uk .
This type of accommodation can vary greatly, from studios, to cluster flats and townhouses.
You can find a list of purpose-built student accommodation on the private halls section of SASSH .
The properties listed are signed up to a national accreditation code - ANUK Code .
This means that the properties should be safe and suitable for use by students and that they are managed in a fair a reasonable manner.
Remember, contract terms and conditions are all different, so it's important that you read and understand what you are committing to before signing anything.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/essential-information/faqs:
Listed below are some of the most frequently asked questions we receive from applicants about staying in student accommodation while studying at Solent.
Our applications will usually go live during March.
If you have selected Solent University as your firm choice through UCAS, we'll email you inviting you to apply for accommodation from this point onwards.
You must apply before 30 June to be guaranteed a place in our residences.
You can only apply for our residences if Solent University is your firm choice, when we'll send you an email inviting you to apply for a room with us.
We set aside certain areas for specific types of students including mature, postgraduate, returning students, single sex and LGBTQ+.
We also have designated quieter areas in most of our residences.
These areas have limited rooms and we cannot guarantee we'll be able to meet your request.
Please note that we cannot provide completely quiet living as it is not possible to prevent noise from corridors or externally.
If you require a specific allocation or change to your room, we need to know in advance - preferably when submitting your application for accommodation.
This could be a minor change or addition - you may have requirement for a longer bed if you are over 6’ 4”, or you may require a small fridge for medicine or special dietary requirements, or you may need an en-suite room due to an unseen medical condition.
If you require a room with specific adaptations, the University has a few rooms which have some levels of accessibility.
In these circumstances, we would advise an occupational therapist visit to ascertain whether the room is suitable for you and if there are any further adaptations required to be made in the room.
Please note that these changes/adaptations take time and need to be arranged well in advance of your arrival into the residences.
We may delay or not be able to accommodate requests that are not submitted prior to your moving in date.
If the above applies to you and you have a firm offer of a place to study at Solent, you'll be able to fill in our personal needs form for living in residences.
You can request to be in the same flat or kitchen group as a friend.
All friends involved must put the names of those they want to share with on their application.
However, we cannot guarantee we will be able to undertake your request, as it depends on when you apply for accommodation and whether we have availability.
You don't need to let us know you are living at home or in an alternative provider in the private sector and can ignore any emails from us.
However, we do send out reminder emails to students and if you wish to stop these emails being sent to you, just email us and ask to be removed from our list.
We guarantee accommodation to undergraduate applicants who apply for a full-time course starting in September at Solent University until 30 June.
You must have chosen Solent as your firm choice.
Please note, our accommodation is self-catered, single-occupancy, en-suite with shared kitchen facilities and non en-suite with shared kitchen, shower and toilet facilities.
We don’t take deposits from students.
We require students to pay an advanced rent payment of £150 for UK students, £1000 for international students, and £150 for returning students at the time of accepting your room offer.
This will be deducted from your accommodation fees.
Under the current Terms of Residency, you do not need a guarantor to apply for our accommodation.
Accommodation fees for UK students are split into three instalments due around the time your maintenance loan is paid in October, January and May.
Remember, your advanced rent payment will be deducted from this amount.
Payments are automatically taken from the card details provided when students pay their advanced rent payment.
Accommodation fees for international students are due in two instalments do on 1 September and 1 February (less the £1,000 already paid by your advanced rent payment, if the contract is accepted before September).
There are separate arrangements for Merchant Navy cadets and students, which we will be happy to advise you of separately.
The Income Team can do this for you.
You can change your card details here .
Don’t worry, the Income Team can help you.
You can contact them by email or phone:
E: income.team@solent.ac.uk T: 023 8201 3970
Please do contact them if you are struggling with your fees as they may be able to set up a payment plan for you to help.
We'll email students who have deferred their place and invite them to apply in time for their year of entry.
If you haven't received an email from us by April, please do contact us and we'll look into this for you.
If you're deferring after you've accepted your contract, please email us to let us know.
Providing you let us know prior to the start of your contract, we'll refund any payments made.
We do not have a cut-off date for applying for our residences, so if we still have rooms available, we'll offer students a room.
We also keep a waiting list for when we have rooms released and offer advice to students looking for accommodation in the private sector.
We can still provide support and guidance for you.
The University has a website which we run in collaboration with the University of Southampton and Southampton City Council called SASSH .
This provides a list of local landlords who sign up to the SASSH standards of housing.
There are also privately run halls of residence on the website who are all signed up to ANUK .
Our private housing adviser will also look over a contract for you if you want it checked.
All our accommodation is self-catered single student study bedrooms with shared kitchens, either en-suite or non en-suite.
Standard contracts start on 11 September 2025, with main moving in slots on 11, 12 and 13 September.
You will not be able to move in prior to this date, with the exception of international students, who are able to arrive two days early to assist with flight arrangements.
Your contract starts on 11 September 2025, but if you're unable to arrive during the usual move in dates, just email us to let us know.
We keep a waiting list for students wanting to move rooms to either a different flat/kitchen group or residence.
Southampton city centre has many hotels and bed and breakfast establishments where parents can stay.
The Visit Southampton website may be useful.
We're sorry, but we're unable to store your belongings when you are out of contract.
There are plenty of storage companies in the city that will collect, store and deliver your belongings to a new location at competitive prices.
Study bedrooms at university have limited storage space, so think about what you really need to bring with you.
All rooms within the student residences are furnished with a bed, chair, desk, wardrobe and bookshelf space.
See more information on what to bring
Since 1 September 2016, you need to be covered by a TV Licence to download or watch BBC programmes on demand, including catch up TV, on BBC iPlayer.
This applies to any device and provider you use.
You will also need a TV Licence to watch or record programmes on any channel.
If you’re found to be using TV without a licence, you may be prosecuted and fined up to £1,000.
Students requiring further information should visit the TV Licensing website .
We're sorry, but we do not allow pets or support animals in our residences.
Each residence has its own car park.
There is an additional charge for parking.
Students can apply for a space at the same time as applying for their accommodation and must provide us with the make, model and registration number of their car.
The parking contract is offered for the same duration as your accommodation contract and we cannot offer custom dates.
Parking must be paid in full, in advance, to accept the offer.
Please note, sometimes we are unable to offer a parking space in the same residence as your room offer, due to limited capacity, but all of our parking and residences are within five minutes of each other.
If there are surplus spaces, we will offer these to non-resident students at the end of September.
There are provisions for motorbikes at the residences and there is no charge to park there.
Some of the residence car parks can facilitate motorbikes free of charge.
We will require your motorbike details as well, so please email us to arrange this.
The residences also have bike storage available.
Core possessions insurance has been provided through Howden for every student living at the student residences for the 2025/26 academic year.
Your policy number is HH1179 .
The insurance covers a range of belongings in your room, including laptops, sports and electrical equipment, clothes and frozen food.
This has been arranged by the University at no extra cost to students.
You have the option to customise and extend your policy to suit your individual needs and avoid being under-insured.
For example you may also want to insure your other possessions such as your mobile phone, push bike, or laptop for use outside your room.
For claims information or to extend your policy, please visit the Howden website .
Our Residence Team are available 24/7 via their mobile number 07778 345113 or you can email them on reshub@solent.ac.uk .
They're based at David Moxon in the Residence Hub for any of your queries or problems with your room.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/find-a-home/david-moxon:
what3words location: less.poppy.sweat
Starting from £154 per week
10 mins to campus
David Moxon is the closest residence to the East Park Terrace campus.
Accommodation is available for first year undergraduates.
All 117 study-bedrooms are en suite.
*Standard residence period runs from 11 September 2025 to 2 July 2026 (42 weeks).
Please note: fees are subject to amendment before the commencement of any period of occupancy.
For the avoidance of doubt, fees will not be amended once a contractual arrangement has been entered into.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/find-a-home/deanery:
what3words location: design.stamp.ozone
15 mins to campus
Deanery has 422 en-suite study-bedrooms, separated into flats of seven, eight or ten, and is made up of three separate buildings.
Accommodation is available for first year undergraduates, second and third year students, postgraduates, maritime officer cadets, and exchange students.
Deanery is approximately a 15-minute walk from the main campus and is close to the city centre.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/find-a-home/kimber:
Starting from £164.50 per week
With views across Hoglands Park's green spaces, Kimber is the closest residence to the main university campus.
Kimber does not offer any designated quiet areas, but these are available in David Moxon on the same site.
*Standard residence period runs from 11 September 2025 to 2 July 2026 (42 weeks)
Please note: fees are subject to amendment before the commencement of any period of occupancy.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/find-a-home/chantry:
what3words location: obey.game.composers
Starting from £125.75 per week
Chantry has 208 single study-bedrooms and has a large common room for meeting up with friends or a quick game of pool.
Non en-suite and a limited number of en-suite rooms are available.
Accommodation is available for first year undergraduates, maritime officer cadets, and exchange students.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/essential-information/information-for-parents:
Your son/daughter's own circumstances, personality and choice of course or university will all impact upon their accommodation preference.
At Solent University we're keen to ensure that all our student residences provide a home from home.
The majority of our new students choose to live in one of the University's student residences in their first year and most of our residences are set aside for new undergraduates.
Built in the 1990s, our four student residences are not only contemporary, clean and comfortable, they're also great places to work, relax, socialise and meet new friends.
All University-owned residences benefit from supportive, but not intrusive, management and on-site security.
During a University open day, your son/daughter (and you, space allowing) can take a tour of our student residences.
All our residences are located within walking distance of the campus and the city centre.
There is no real need to bring a car, although there is limited parking available at most properties.
To make life easier, accommodation fees can be paid in three equal instalments – normally in October, January and May.
As well as covering the rental cost of the accommodation, the fees also pay for:
Once your son/daughter receives an offer to study here, and Solent University is their first choice university, they will be sent an email inviting them to apply for accommodation.
This information is normally sent out during March.
To accept the offer of accommodation, you'll need to choose a payment plan and make an advance rent payment by credit or debit card.
This advance rent payment is not a deposit and will be taken off your son or daughter's overall accommodation fees for the year.
If your son or daughter has requested a car parking space you'll receive a separate parking allocation offer.
To accept this offer, you'll need to make full payment of the parking fees.
Typically, car parking offers are sent during August.
Accommodation for a ‘standard’ room in student residences is guaranteed providing an application is received prior to 30 June 2025.
Places are allocated by the University's accommodation office on receipt of applications on a first-come, first-served basis, although students with an established need (that is, those with a disability) are given priority on certain types of adapted rooms.
All undergraduate applicants are eligible to apply for accommodation irrespective of where they live – unlike some universities, our rooms are not allocated according to distance between the University campus and the family home.
For more independence, some students opt for private rented accommodation, either as a lodger or sharing a house or flat with some friends.
To safeguard our students' interests, we have a landlord accreditation scheme for Southampton and the surrounding area.
Properties can be viewed on the SASSH website, along with the criteria that properties must achieve to qualify for the scheme.
It's a good idea to encourage your son/daughter to start looking as early as possible before the course starts and ensure they visit private accommodation to check that it is both suitable and affordable.
Students living in the University's residences are required to provide their own bedding, including sheets, pillows, pillowcases, duvet, duvet cover and blankets.
The residences are self-catering and students will need to bring crockery, including cups, plates, dishes, and so on (suitable for microwave use).
All cutlery and cooking utensils, pots and pans must be suitable for use on an electric hob.
It is also advisable to bring tea towels, dishcloths and coat hangers.
Student life provides young people with the opportunity to be independent and stand on their own two feet, but we believe that help should never be far away if they need it.
All our student residences have a dedicated management team on hand 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Each residence, study-bedroom and kitchen is designed to ensure only residents can gain access.
The residences meet the current fire safety regulations and the government approved codes of practice for management of student accommodation.
We would welcome comments from parents and students alike, and if, over the course of the year, you have additional questions we could include, please let us know .
Please also see our general accommodation FAQs and our guide for parents and carers about student life at Solent University.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/accommodation/essential-information/resident-engagement-strategy:
The Building Safety Act 2022 is legislation in England and Wales that plays a critical role in ensuring the safety of residential buildings.
In line with the recent introduction of the law, we’re required to keep comprehensive documentation of how our buildings are designed, built, maintained, and changed.
There are additional regulations for tall residential buildings, which include those exceeding 18 metres in height or comprising seven or more floors.
Not all of our student accommodation buildings fall into this category, but some of them do.
As part of the requirements under the Building Safety Act 2022, Southampton Solent University acts as the Principal Accountable Person (PAP) who is responsible for ensuring compliance with residential building safety regulations.
A key part of the Building Safety Act is establishing a Resident Engagement Strategy.
This strategy, as outlined below, sets out how we will inform residents about building safety decisions and any necessary building work, plus how we will engage with you to ensure your voice is heard before we make any changes.
Your safety while living with us in student residences is our top priority.
We are dedicated to keeping you informed about any building safety decision involving our student residences.
The type of building safety decisions which residents may be consulted on are decisions relating to:
The resident engagement strategy is formed of three key elements:
We will keep you up to date on any building safety decision and will engage with you through email, social media pages and regular updates on our accommodation website pages.
We will also ensure key messages are shared across our noticeboards in the reception area of each residence to ensure that information is readily available and easily accessible.
If you want to discuss any building safety issue in person, our residences team are based in the Residences Hub (Reshub) at David Moxon residence which is staffed 24/7, 365 days a year, so there will always be someone around to help or discuss any issues.
The residences team will be actively seeking your opinions in order to shape or update this strategy, as well as collecting any feedback on any current or future building safety decision involving any works as listed above.
Regular flat group meetings with the residences team also take place throughout the year where feedback can be given and discussed on building safety matters.
We also meet regularly with representatives from the Students' Union and will discuss this resident engagement strategy at our meetings to ensure your student voice is heard.
We will keep you updated on all information relating to the safety of the building you live in.
We carry out regular safety checks throughout the year, including testing of fire alarm systems and smoke detectors, fire door checks, and patrols of fire escape routes.
Where any building safety works involve entering your accommodation, you will always be informed in advance.
Most activity will not disturb you; we will let you know before work takes place if we believe it will.
There is however one exception:
Emergency repairs exception
Southampton Solent University is not required to ask for any feedback or suggestions in regard to emergency repairs.
These are immediate repairs taken to protect the health, safety or welfare of residents and the building itself.
You will be notiﬁed as soon as possible if any emergency repairs involve entering your study bedroom.
We will only share information with you relating to the building you live in.
This way you can be sure you are only seeing information that's relevant to you.
If there is further information you would like regarding the building you live in, please contact the residences team and we will share this with you as soon as possible.
Depending on the nature of the request, we will confirm what timeframe you will receive this in.
We are always available to talk through the details of any information we hold,     if needed.
We will ensure you have all of the information you need to keep yourself safe within student accommodation.
This includes details of evacuation routes, how to prevent a fire, and what to do in the event of a fire.
If you have any concerns, you can get in touch with the residences team, contactable via the residence Hub, at any time.
If you have a complaint you would like to make in relation to building safety, please complete our accommodation complaints form.
Look out for our student satisfaction surveys in autumn and spring where you can share your views about your accommodation.
We will use your feedback to inform our strategy, so please let us know what you really think.
Residents will be given the opportunity to feedback and make suggestions in relation to the building safety decisions highlighted above.
We may only need to ask you about certain aspects of the building safety decision, for example, when is a convenient time for any maintenance work to take place.
Residents will also be contacted by email where feedback and consultation on a building safety decision is required.
The email may be in the form of a survey and will include a timeline for feedback to be given by residents.
Residences building safety is on all of us.
Below, you'll find what we all need to do to maintain the safety of our residential buildings.
As a resident living in Southampton Solent University accommodation, you must:
As part of the overarching fire safety strategy for our residences, students in residence are invited to engage with the residences team with regard to the effective fire safety measures in place for the building.
These safety measures include:
Information on these measures can be found as part of the student induction, which residents must undertake prior to moving into the residence, and in the student residence handbook .
Fire emergency drills will take place at the start of term and where is is deemed necessary throughout the academic year.
Residents should familiarise themselves with the fire safety measures in place.
Fire doors, including study bedroom doors, are an integral part of the building fire safety measures.
These should not be interfered with or altered in any way.
Any maintenance issues with regard to any fire door must be reported by residents via the Planon maintenance reporting app or in person at the ResHub.
Fire action notices are in place on the back of each study bedroom door advising on actions to take in the event of a fire alarm activation within the residence.
Residents should familiarise themselves with the quickest evacuation route from their study bedroom, as indicated on the fire action notice.
The residence team encourages feedback from and consultation with residents on any of the fire safety measures currently in place at any time.
All feedback will be reviewed and acted upon accordingly.
All residents will be informed of any changes to fire safety measures via email and noticeboards.
Any actions taken as a result will also be included in an annual review of fire safety procedures prior to the start of each move-in period at the start of the academic year.
You can provide feedback on fire safety and any other building safety decisions for any residence by contacting a member of the residence team in person at the ResHub based in David Moxon building, or by phone or email at:
Email: reshub@solent.ac.uk Tel: 023 8033 5347 Mobile: 07778 345113
The ResHub is manned 24/7 by residence staff seven days a week, between 8.30am and 10.30pm, and the overnight team between 10.30pm and 8.30am.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/sport-at-solent/student-sport:
Solent has over 30 sport clubs ranging from American football, to netball, powerlifting, and football.
Our clubs compete in BUCS competitions throughout the season.
As well as competitive sport, Solent also has Campus Sport which offers non-competitive and recreational sport activities students can participate in during the year.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/sports-ground-test-park:
Test Park hosts the majority of Sport at Solent football , rugby , and American football training sessions and fixtures.
We welcome spectators for football fixtures or, for something different, our American football teams, Solent Redhawks and Solent Thrashers.
Test Park also provides a vital resource for the practical training elements our students on our football degree programmes have to undertake.
Sport at Solent places a large emphasis on community engagement and the facility is also regularly used by local football clubs and training academies.
Please note, Test Park is a cashless building.
Our 3D all-weather pitch and the grass pitches can be hired for six- or 11-a-side football.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/student-support/wellbeing-support/mental-health-and-wellbeing-team:
Our dedicated mental health advisers are here to help you access the right support, both at the University and through external services if needed.
You won’t need to manage everything on your own.
Whether you already have a diagnosed mental health condition or encounter difficulties during your time at university, our team can work with you to build a support plan that suits your needs.
Personalised support plans to help you feel settled and supported at university.
One-off sessions to talk through your options and signpost to specialist services.
Ongoing support , if needed, to help you stay on track with your studies while additional services are arranged.
Guidance on accessing help for alcohol or substance misuse, or support around domestic or sexual violence.
Pre-arrival support , if you have an existing care plan or diagnosis and want to make sure support is in place before you start.
You can reach out to our team at any time during your university journey - whether before you start your course or at any point during your studies.
We understand it can be difficult to open up, and we treat all conversations with care and respect.
Your confidentiality is very important to us, and we encourage you to read more about how we protect your privacy on our page which sits on our student site .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/student-support/study-support:
When you first come to university - whether from school, college, or the workplace - you may find there are lots of things you're expected to do that you've never done before.
For instance, have you ever:
At university there are higher expectations of the quality, structure, presentation and content of assignments, essays, and projects.
It may seem a daunting prospect, but at Solent University there's a range of expert advice and support to help you develop advanced academic skills and reach your full potential.
All students at Solent University can access Succeed@Solent, the University's online guide to getting better grades.
With Succeed@Solent, you can:
Our Disability Advice Team provides disability and neurodiversity advice for current students and prospective applicants.
We can advise on support available at university to remove barriers to learning and enable students to develop as an independent learner.
There's a wealth of additional support available to Solent students - from online resources that you can access at any time, to one-to-one support from our library team, to virtual workshops covering everything from career skills to English language.
Our student success teams are here to help you get the most out of your studies while you're with us.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/student-support/finance-support:
With recent rises in the cost of living, you might have concerns about money while you study, which can be stressful.
We want to do everything we can to make sure financial concerns aren't affecting your wellbeing or studies - our student funding team are here to support you with advice on managing your budget, grants and bursaries, hardship loans, and more.
Solent University offers students access to a team of dedicated student funding advisers who can help you with all matters relating to student funding.
Find out how much living in Southampton might cost you.
This rough estimate looks at a single student living in Southampton for a total of 40 weeks.
If you have children/dependants and are considering studying at university full-time, you may be eligible for further funding through the summer months and, in some circumstances, throughout the whole year.
Students who are experiencing short term financial difficulty during their studies may be able to receive cost-free financial assistance from the University.
Our student funding advisers can give you more information.
We know the rising costs of living can be a concern for many students, from housing and food, to transportation or utilities.
So whether you’re looking for advice on ways to manage your budget, or how to make meals on a budget, we can provide help and support.
There are many bursaries available to students to help fund your studies, from bursaries for carers or estranged students, to help with paying for utilities or to buy IT equipment.
Most of these bursaries are non-repayable and are there to help eligible students while studying at Solent.
If you want to boost your bank account by earning some money while studying, our careers service can help you find paid part-time work that can fit around your studies.
We understand it can be daunting entering the world of work, pensions, and mortgages after university, so we have advice on issues such as postgraduate study, work contracts, tax and national insurance, and bank accounts to help you after you leave.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/student-support/specialist-student-support/mature-students:
UCAS defines mature students as 'any student aged 21 or over at the start of their studies'.
One in every five students at Solent University fall into this category, and we pride ourselves on being a diverse and welcoming community.
There are many reasons for mature students to enter higher education: to completely change career direction and enter a new profession, to achieve personal goals and ambitions having missed earlier opportunities, or to improve current employment prospects.
You have many attributes and transferable skills that 18-year-old undergraduates might not.
Your additional life and work experience will have equipped you with relevant skills in time management, problem solving and multi-tasking, as well as a passion and enthusiasm to study your course.
Remember, when integrating with other students in lectures and tutorials you are able to bring your additional knowledge and experiences to course discussions and debates.
Other students will value and respect this input tremendously, making it easy to bond with your course mates.
All new students who enter higher education, regardless of age and background, will have anxieties about coping with the demands of a university course.
Workload commitments, timetables, assignment expectations, examinations, accessing support and making friends are all common causes of concern.
However, it's important to remember that this is normal and healthy behaviour.
If the thought of walking into a busy lecture theatre and being the oldest one there scares you, this is understandable.
Try not to let it ruin your experience.
Remember that everyone else is new as well and are probably also anxious for a number of other reasons.
You may already have financial commitments and therefore have less disposable income than other students.
If you have financial concerns, you can speak in confidence to a member of the student funding team .
Please email student.funding@solent.ac.uk or call in to the Student Hub once you are here to find about any support available to you.
At Solent we host many social events inclusive to all students.
There are also a lot of clubs and societies you can join - it all depends on how much time you have free, what you enjoy doing, and how much you want to get involved.
And if you're keen to meet other mature students, why not join the mature students society?
Make sure you attend the Freshers' Fayre during Welcome Week where you'll be able to find out about the different clubs and societies on offer.
Those who are leaving the armed forces benefit from the above support, as well specialist financial assistance (dependent on qualifying service).
To find out more about support for armed service leavers, please follow the link below.
Access courses are entry routes into higher education specifically designed for mature students.
These courses lead to a nationally recognised Access Certificate award and are designed to help people develop the necessary confidence and knowledge for getting onto a degree or diploma course.
If you have an idea of what you would like to study at university or you have a particular career aspiration, you may wish to choose a more tailored Access course, one which is more specific in terms of the skills you will learn.
However, if you are really not sure of what you would like to study in higher education, you can opt for a general course, like Access to Higher Education, and choose from a broad range of available subjects within that course to match your requirements.
These courses are normally one-year full-time, but some may be available by part-time study.
Some courses are available during the day, some in the evening.
and some are a mixture of both.
So hopefully you should be able to choose the option which best suits your own personal circumstances.
For entry to an Access course, apply direct to the college(s) you would like to attend early in the year you plan to start the course.
To find an Access course local to you either speak with your local further education college, or go to the Access to Higher Education website .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/student-support/specialist-student-support/armed-forces:
Southampton Solent University has pledged that it will support armed service leavers and members of the wider armed forces community - particularly as they seek to resettle into civilian life and retrain for a new career.
Southampton Solent University is dedicated to the pursuit of excellent university education that enables learners from all backgrounds to become enterprising citizens and responsible leaders, while also promoting economic and social prosperity for the communities we serve.
As a signatory of the Armed Forces Covenant, we're committed to delivering education to military personnel in a fair and supportive manner.
The University has been successfully and consistently delivering a programme of learning to those within the military for the last 10 years, through a blended learning mode of delivery.
Students have ranged from Corporals to Lt Colonel and particularly from AGC (SPS).
Many have undertaken this path of study to enhance their personal and professional development within their armed forces career (e.g.
LE commissioning), and also to gain recognised academic qualifications for the transition to civilian life.
Embarking on a new educational journey is an exciting opportunity, but we understand that life’s unpredictability can sometimes create challenges.
That’s why our programme is designed with your unique needs in mind, offering robust support and flexibility every step of the way.
Discover the range of support we can offer you.
If you are currently serving in the armed forces or have left within the last five years, you may be able to partially fund your course through the Enhanced Learning Credits (ELCAS) scheme.
Our blended learning model has been successfully run with group and individual learning activities taking place in between the campus sessions using our online learning facilities.
Activities could include the use of forums, blogs, peer review and directed reading.
These directed off campus activities encourage continued engagement with study.
Assessments can be tailored to benefit you.
We're aware that students may well be deployed during study - the course team provide opportunities to submit assessments online.
The learning experience may be further enhanced by a guest speaker programme and skills enhancement sessions.
If you have any questions, please contact Andrëa Faustino, course leader, who will be more than happy to answer any concerns or questions.
Southampton Solent University has pledged to support armed service leavers and member of the wider armed forces community.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/learning-at-solent/tef-gold:
The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF), run by the Office for Students (OfS), is a national review programme designed to make sure universities and colleges provide students with excellent teaching, a great learning experience, and successful outcomes when they graduate.
Unis are rated by a panel of independent academic experts and student representatives, highlight outstanding undergraduate teaching and student outcomes so that prospective students have all the information they need to select the right course and the right uni for them.
That’s why we’re delighted to have been awarded Gold for every aspect of the latest TEF, recognising that our student experience and student outcomes are typically outstanding.
The ratings show we provide a great experience and successful results for our students, across all our undergraduate courses and subjects.
This is a high-profile endorsement of our ‘real-world’ approach, and of the work we do with each student to tailor our approach to meet their needs, and to support them to achieve their goals
The TEF panel praised Solent's student submission, which was put together with the support of the University's Students' Union.
It described our students as 'devoted, curious and aspiring individuals with the goal of changing their lives through advanced opportunities and experiences’.
The TEF panel that reviewed Solent highlighted three main achievements in the University’s provision:
No matter where you come from, it’s important you feel confident that you'll get a great education and plenty of opportunities from your college or university.
The Teaching Excellence Framework drives colleges and universities to always do better, highlighting the quality of their courses, affecting their reputations, and helping students make informed choices.
By applying to a gold-rated university, you know you’re getting the very best training, skills and career opportunities.
We're rated gold for our overall student experience.
We offer state-of-the-art facilities, a vibrant campus life, and a supportive community to help our students thrive academically and personally.
Our experienced staff are dedicated to providing personalised support and innovative teaching methods to help our students excel.
We’re rated gold for our overall student outcomes.
Real-world learning opportunities are embedded in every course, from professional networking and careers fairs to projects, assessments and assignments where you’ll work on real industry challenges with real clients or organisations – ensuring you’re ready for the workplace before you even graduate.
Book on to one of our open days and see what Solent has on offer for you

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/sport-at-solent/performance-sport:
Our sport excellence programme supports talented athletes through university.
The programme is moulded around your sporting talent and academic potential, with an expert team on hand to help you balance your university career with competing on the national or international stage.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/3d-modelling-workshop:
The 3D modelling workshop is a dedicated facility for fabricating three- and two-dimensional superficial and prototype models.
The workshop is used by students for project proposals and creating designs , making tangible, realistic representations from given materials, typically plastics and timber, and surface finishing to high standards.
Examples of student modelled work include:
These material forms are achieved by the appropriate choice and student preferred method from a range of automated and manual machinery and portable power and hand tools, according to user requirement and craft level of development, assisted by instruction.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/advanced-composites-laboratory:
The Solent composites lab is designed to handle all of the processes commonly seen in composite construction, from hand- and vacuum-assisted laminating to pre-impregnated fibre construction and resin infusion.
We also undertake the construction of prototype models, towing tank models, display models and tooling, offering a turnkey solution to model evaluation and a cradle-to-grave approach to creating a prototype or product.
Equipped to handle polyester and epoxy resin in any combination of FRP materials, including glass, carbon and aramid fibre, the composites lab has a well-established reputation in the area of marine construction and repair.
Organisations from a range of industries are beginning to explore the possibilities of using composite construction, and Solent University can provide the specialist facilities and knowledge you require.
Past commissions have involved building towing tank models, test panels, surfboards, repair and improvement for sailing and rowing craft, parts for kit cars, and a range of other bespoke components.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/advanced-manufacturing-laboratory:
Solent's advanced manufacturing facility brings together various technologies used in engineering, design and manufacture.
The lab houses a large OceArizona printer, as well as 3D print, laser cutting and robotics.
Students on non-engineering courses, and the wider university also have access to the 3D printers through the web shop.
The wide variety of robotics in the lab include a new Baxter industrial robot system, which can be taught to perform automated tasks.
Additionally, the lab has a range of testing equipment and finishing facilities, including UV curing and heat treatment.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/animation-studios:
Dedicated studios for 2D, 3D and stop-motion animation.
Our dedicated animation studios offer students the opportunities to explore the various methods and types of animation, from traditional hand-drawn 2D styles to stop-motion to digital 3D, using a range of industry-standard software such as Adobe Creative Suite, 3D Studio Max, Maya, Blender, Toon Boom and more.
With access to everything they need, our students have the tools and opportunity to learn the fundamental principles of animation, play with digital and analogue tools, and find their medium – then master it.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/applied-mechanics-laboratory:
The applied mechanics laboratory is used for both undergraduate and postgraduate teaching.
Students have the opportunity to use experimental apparatus and compare results against that of accepted theory, developing and enhancing their knowledge of important scientific concepts.
The lab is equipped to perform a diverse range of experiments including photo stress analysis.
Various applications of strain gauges such as diaphragm, thick/ thin cylinders, combined bending & torsion, single/ multi plane balancing exercises can also be conducted.
These are very useful for the understanding of vector diagrams.
The facility incorporates many wall mounted experiments and beam bending rigs which are strategically placed around the perimeter of the laboratory.
These experiments include the energy of a flywheel, friction clutch, cantilever and the rubber block apparatus.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/audio-dubbing-suite:
The audio dubbing suite runs on Pro Tools HD software with HD Native hardware and an HD OMNI interface.
This provides two inputs and a 5.1 output to a tannoy speaker system, with a stereo headphone mix connected to the booth.
The suite also has Avid Artist Mix control surfaces providing control over the channels in the Pro Tools software.
As well as the control room there is a small booth, measuring 2m x 2m, for Foley work in which recordings can be made.
The booth has flooring options, but is mainly used for recording spot effects or ADR/voice overs.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/biomechanics-laboratory:
Our purpose-built biomechanics laboratory boasts a range of specialised equipment, including a state-of-the-art Vicon 3D motion capture system that allows athletes' movements to be recorded and analysed.
This data can be used in conjunction with force data captured from three embedded force plates and our portable EMG system.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/biomedical-science-laboratories:
The suite includes extensive support facilities, teaching laboratories for undergraduate practical classes, and a dedicated tissue culture laboratory.
Our two teaching laboratories are comprehensively equipped and include: laminar flow hood and incubators for microbiological work, spectrophotometers for analytical biochemistry, PCR and gel electrophoresis running/imaging systems for molecular biology, and a range of microscopes for cell biology and pathology.
Our biomedical science students benefit from a wide range of practical classes, designed to give them experience of methodologies used both clinically and in research.
Across the three years of the degree programme students are given the opportunity to practice and gain confidence in a range of techniques, equipping them to design and implement their own research project in the final year.
Our new laboratory contains extensive cell culture and microbiological cabinets supporting increased student teaching and research within the clinical pathology disciplines.
There is also a lot of advanced equipment within this laboratory including fluorescent microscopes, flow cytometers, HPLC, DNA sequencers and qPCR machines.
This will allow students to work with more advanced samples and techniques used in industry as they develop their understanding of patient pathways.
It will also support more complex and detailed research projects and post-graduate research.
These new labs were developed following investment from the Office for Students and supports more complex clinical needs to enable students to develop their industry relevant skills.
Our purpose-built laboratory suite is well-equipped to support teaching and research in biomedical science.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/facilities/bridge-simulation:
Our world-class maritime simulation centre enables seafarers to train on the very latest specialist facilities using Wärtsilä technology.
Deck officers have access to:
The simulator closely resembles equipment and layout on a real bridge.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance/paying-your-fees:
This page gives a basic overview of the student finance application process and the types of evidence that you will be required to provide.
If you need an answer to your question quickly, and it isn't answered in the links below, please check our frequently asked questions first.
Find out how to apply for student funding
This page gives student finance information specific to students from England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Find out how to apply for student finance as a UK student
This page gives student finance information specific to students from countries within the European Union.
Find out how to apply for student finance as an EU student
Students who are hoping to study a part-time HNC or HND programme are now able to receive funding for their course.
Information on applying to part-time funding
This is information for students who will be paying their fees directly, without taking out a student loan.
Information on self-funding your studies
The postgraduate loan is not income-assessed.
Find out how to apply for a postgraduate loan
This information is for students who are having their tuition fees paid by a corporate sponsor.
Information on how your course sponsorship works
This information is for students from outside the EU who are having their tuition fees paid by their country's government.
This includes information about US and Canadian loan schemes.
If you are currently serving in the armed forces or have left within the last five years, you may be able to partially fund your course through the Enhanced Learning Credits scheme.
Armed Forces support at Solent
If you've studied at university before, this may affect your eligibility for certain types of student finance.
Tuition fee information for students with similar qualifications
If you have children/dependants and are considering studying at university full-time, you may be eligible for further funding.
Financial support information for students with dependants
Solent University has been registered by the OfS in the register of English higher education providers.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance/university-grants:
Solent University is committed to encouraging students from all backgrounds to enter higher education and offers a number of non-repayable grants to support disadvantaged students in their studies.
The support grant is a non-repayable grant for students who are in financial hardship while at university.
The fund is available for students who:
It can help with living costs, childcare, travel, accommodation, household expenses, books and course equipment, but it cannot help pay for tuition fees .
Unfortunately, it cannot fully compensate for the lack of parental contribution, especially where a student has only been able to take out the non-means-tested part of the maintenance loan.
It may also not be able to help those who have mismanaged their finances.
For students in this situation we can advise where to get money management advice .
Funds are available from October to June or until the funds are exhausted, whichever is the soonest.
If you are currently a student at our university, application forms and full guidelines are available on the student portal .
If you are unhappy with the result of your support grant application you can appeal the decision .
The summer support grant opens during the summer break each year, if funds are still available.
Eligibility criteria remains the same as for the support grant.
If you cannot work over the summer break because of any of the following, you may apply to the summer support grant:
Please note, the summer support grant cannot cover all your expenses over the summer period and should not be expected to.
You must seek alternative funding eg, paid employment or benefits (if eligible).
If you are a lone parent , you may be eligible to apply for Universal Credit (depending on where you live) or full housing benefit, Income Support or Jobseekers' Allowance during July and August.
These should stop in September, so you will need to reapply for your housing benefit/Universal Credit for term time.
For further details and an application form please go to our portal page .
The course costs support grant is available to support students who have compulsory course costs (not general costs such as books, stationery etc - the support grant can look at these costs separately), or final major project costs.
For example:
Find out more on the student portal
The unpaid placement support grant is means-tested and available to support students who have been offered a short-term unpaid placement.
Placements must last a minimum of 10 working days (or 100 hours) and a maximum of 20 working days.
If it is slightly longer than this (not a full year placement) students may still apply but only the maximum of 20 working days will be considered.
The fund is limited and not all applications can be successful.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/finance/make-a-payment:
The University does not accept cash, cheques or bankers drafts in payment of tuition fees.
Please use the online services available to make payment.
New students can also make payment for their tuition fees when registering online, or booking a short course.
To make a payment, please have the following items available before proceeding:
Advance tuition fee payments, including CAS deposits
All student tuition fee payments, including applicant advance payments, should be made through My Finance by logging into Gateway.
You will need your user name and password to log in.
If you have not already applied for a room in one of our residences you can do so on our accommodation page .
You should only use the payment page for accommodation or car parking payments after you have accepted our accommodation offer and paid the required payment (outlined in your offer).
The University does not accept cash, cheques or bankers drafts in payment of accommodation and car parking.
Please have the following items available before proceeding:
Making a payment
All payments should be made through the accommodation portal where you will also be able to see outstanding fees on your account.
The University's payment plans are designed to be simple and straightforward, allowing students to spread the cost of their course and to graduate without debt.
No payment plans are offered for courses for less than one year.
The University offers the following payment plans:
Undergraduate home self-funded: 33% October, 33% January, 34% April Undergraduate overseas: 50% prior to CAS, 25% January, 25% April Postgraduate home: 33% September, 33% January, 34% May Postgraduate overseas: 50% September, 50% January
Payment plans can be set up during online registration.
To submit payment details to set up the plan, please use our online payment plan portal .
You will need your student number and card to hand.
Income Team, Solent University Room A101 East Park Terrace Southampton SO14 0YN
Tel: 023 8201 3970
If available on your credit card, we offer you the option to pay in your own currency.
If you choose to take advantage of this, your initial payment and all future payments will be processed in your own currency.
The exchange rate used is based on Reuters Wholesale Interbank Exchange Rate.
The currency conversions service is provided by FEXCO Merchant Services on behalf of Solent University.
FEXCO provides Solent University customers a best rate guarantee.
If you choose not to take advantage of paying in your own currency, all transactions for your plan will be processed in Sterling.
Cardholder choice is final.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate-open-days:
Our undergraduate open days show you what it's like to be a student at Solent.
You can also talk to course leaders and current students, as well as our accommodation, admissions and Student Hub teams.
9am to 3pm
We want to ensure you can find out everything there is to know about your chosen course of study, so we recommend planning your day around the course talk.
These sessions will give you a chance to meet the course leader and gain an in-depth insight into what you'll be studying.
Feel free to attend more than one if you're choosing between courses!
Online event
7-8pm
Fill out the form to register.
You'll be sent a link to join the virtual open day, along with a programme of events, before the open evening.
Our open evening aims to provide you with everything you need to know about studying for an undergraduate degree, life at Southampton Solent, and living in Southampton.
You will also have the opportunity to join the course talk for your chosen course of study, hosted by our academic teams.
Here you'll find out more about your course, meet your academic and potential peers, and have the chance to ask any questions you may have.
The event is for students interested in studying for an undergraduate degree only.
9am - 3pm

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/open-days/cadetship-open-days:
Interested in a career at sea?
Our careers at sea open days give you an insight into what a career in the maritime industry has to offer, and the training programmes to qualify as a ship's deck, engineer or electro-technical officer in the Merchant Navy and on superyachts.
You'll feel right at home at our friendly and welcoming campus where you can discover, and maybe even try out, our amazing maritime facilities, including our bridge simulators.
You'll also be able to talk to and ask questions of course leaders and, just as importantly, current cadets about studying at Solent, as well as our accommodation, admissions and Student Hub teams.
04 October 2025
9.30am - 2pm
Our careers at sea open days give you an insight into what a career in the maritime industry has to offer, and the training programmes to qualify as a ship's navigation (deck), engineer or electro-technical officer in the Merchant Navy and on superyachts.
Many of the major British shipping companies and recruitment and training companies who recruit cadets will be available to give information about the career opportunities they offer.
Our teaching staff are also on hand to talk about the academic side of training, and current cadets will be able to tell you what training to be a ship's officer is like.
You'll also be able to take a tour of our main East Park Terrace campus and see where you could be living with a tour of our student accommodation.
There are general presentations about life as a deck or engineer officer, and you can also speak to our teams about accommodation options, applying and enrolling, student support, and much more!
If you're looking for a bite to eat or a drink, visit the East Park Deli where you'll find hot and cold drinks, as well as snacks and a selection of hot and cold food.
10am - 1pm
You'll be sent a link to join the virtual open day before the event.
Our virtual careers at sea open days give you an insight into what a career in the maritime industry has to offer, and the training programmes to qualify as a ship's navigation (deck), engineer or electro-technical officer in the Merchant Navy and on superyachts, all from the comfort of your home.
Many of the major British shipping companies and recruitment and training companies who recruit cadets will be online to give information about the career opportunities they offer.
Our course tutors will also host a Q&A session so you can ask questions about studying for your cadetship.
You'll also be able to take a virtual tour of our campus and residences, watch a variety of general presentations, and speak to our teams about applying and enrolling, student support, funding, and much more!
You'll be able to hear from our current cadets and student ambassadors about their experience of being a student at Solent, from studying, to student support, and living in Southampton.
We also have videos on student support and the student experience.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/open-days/apprenticeships-open-days:
If you want to learn more about apprenticeships and studying with Solent University, our apprenticeships open days are the perfect opportunity to discover the wide range of subject areas we offer at levels 4 to 7.
You'll feel right at home at our friendly and welcoming campus where you can talk to and ask questions to our apprenticeships team and learn about our industry-standard facilities.
If you need support with employment, there are often a number of potential employers available to chat with.
Our apprenticeships team will be on hand to offer help and guidance and answer any questions you may have.
And our admissions and student support teams are all on hand to answer any questions you may have.
Light refreshments will be provided during the event.
If you're looking for something further, you can visit the East Park Deli, Costa Coffee, or the Dock - they all serve hot and cold drinks, as well as snacks and a selection of hot and cold food.
You'll be able to hear from students about their experience of studying an apprenticeship at Solent, and learn about the support services offered for all students at Solent.
You'll also be able to take a virtual tour of our campus and our excellent facilities.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/open-days-travel-voucher-terms-and-conditions:
Prospective students who attend an on-campus open day at Solent University and live outside of the local authority of Southampton City Council, or have travelled from outside of the UK, are able to apply to receive an Amazon voucher covering the cost of their travel to the event.
You will be sent a link to make an application in our pre-event emails, so please keep an eye on your inbox!
Please contact us by emailing opendays@solent.ac.uk if you have any queries.
We look forward to seeing you on the day!
Book your place on an open day below:
Book now
Solent University is offering students up to £50 in Amazon vouchers to cover the cost of their travel to our on-campus open days.
This offer is only valid for students who have pre-booked one of our on-campus open days.
Vouchers are paid back in denominations of £10, eg, travel cost of £34 students will receive £40 of vouchers.
For all students who pre-book our on-campus open days.
Students must live outside of the local authority of Southampton City Council or have travelled from outside of the UK.
The offer is only valid for the student’s travel cost and not for any accompanying guests.
Students will be required to complete a travel voucher claim form, indicating their claimed for amount and including a copy of their receipt for travel costs (must be a full VAT itemised receipt, not card receipt etc) including the date of travel to the open day or one calendar day before or after this date.
For petrol claims, please see full details below.
The claim form, and all relevant receipts, must be sent and received by Solent University on, or before, the stated deadline on the travel voucher claim form.
Travel costs covered are as follows:
We are not able to process any claims for accommodation, parking or subsistence.
*We are currently unable to accept any claims for electric vehicles.
If a claim form is received by this deadline but the accompanying receipts are missing or incorrect, the University will contact the student via the email address provided on the claim form to request the missing documentation.
If no response is received within 14 calendar days of the University contacting the student, the claim will be withdrawn, and a voucher will not be issued.
If a student contacts the University outside of these 14 calendar days, it will be considered that the deadline has passed, and the voucher will not be issued.
Students will receive their Amazon vouchers via email to the email address stated on their claim form on, or before, the deadline stated on the travel voucher claim form.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure that the email address indicated on the claim form is accurate and that Solent University is noted as a safe sender to ensure the email is not received into a junk folder.
Attendance at our on-campus open days will be recorded by Solent University student ambassadors.
This information will be used to register student attendance and eligibility to claim.
Vouchers will be issued up to the value of £50 only and the amount issued will be based on the cost of travel incurred by the student.
If the cost of travel exceeds £50, the maximum amount of £50 only can be issued.
All students will receive an email from the University confirming receipt of their claim form and accompanying proof of travel costs incurred.
Vouchers will be issued in denominations of £10 as follows:
Travel must have been undertaken either the calendar day before or after the open day (for petrol claims, please see more information below) or the exact date of the open day.
Only the student’s travel is redeemable under the conditions of this offer.
VAT receipts must be submitted for all claims made, clearly showing the amount paid and the date of travel.
An accompanying voucher claim form must also be submitted, correctly completed.
Any incorrect information may delay the issuing of vouchers, with students being advised of expected delays, where relevant, via email.
International/EU/EEA visitors must provide full VAT itemised receipts and proof of travel in English as provided by the company you travelled with.
Any questions regarding this should be emailed to opendays@solent.ac.uk prior to claiming.
Receipts for petrol purchased can be dated outside of the date before, date of, or date following the open day.
VAT receipts must still be submitted with the travel claim form without exception.
Please state number of miles travelled on the travel claim form.
Please note that the maximum mileage a student is able to claim for is the distance between the University main campus and the student’s recorded home address.
Mileage claims will be processed as 15p per mile.
This is the redeemable amount, not necessarily the cost of petrol, eg, £55 petrol spend according to submitted receipt, 90 miles claimed at 15p/mile.
Total cost of journey is £13.50, resulting in a £20 voucher claim for the student.
Solent University reserves the right to change the Amazon voucher offered without prior notice.
Solent University reserves the right to request the original receipts, if required, to validate any claims submitted.
Solent University reserves the right to terminate this offer without prior notice.
Submission of the travel voucher claim form by a student confirms that the student agrees to the terms and conditions of this offer.
South Western Railway (SWR) is offering discounted rail fares for students travelling to a Solent University open day.
To book your discounted ticket, click here .
I can't see an available fare Either tickets, which are subject to availability, may have sold out, or if you are a regular user of SWR and its booking tool, you can clear your cookies and try again.
Who is the offer available to?
Anyone travelling with the student.
Can I use a railcard?
Only the 16-25 railcard is currently valid.
Can I change or refund my ticket?
The promotion tickets are based on the Advance Purchase fare and are subject to the same conditions.
They can be changed for a £10 admin fee but cannot be cancelled - unless due to an incident that would mean you could not travel on the the requested times, eg, industrial action.
More information about Delay Repay refunds
Further questions about refunding and changing tickets
Please direct any enquiries about this offer to groups@swrailway.com .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduation/certificates:
The certificate issued by the University as proof of conferment of an award is a unique and valuable document.
It should be carefully preserved and kept safe.
The certificate shows your full name, course title, level of award, classification (if applicable) and the date of the award.
Certificates will be posted as soon as possible following publication of results.
The name shown on the certificate is taken from the student record system, provided by you at enrolment.
This should be your full legal name, including any middle names.
Initials will not be printed on certificates.
It's not possible to alter the name on a certificate following its production.
It's your responsibility to ensure that the details held on the student record system are accurate and up-to-date.
If you think your details may be incorrect or need updating, please contact us:
Telephone: 023 8201 2508 Email: certificates@solent.ac.uk
Certificates will be posted in the autumn to the correspondence address held on the student record system, although this is dependent on you not having any outstanding debt to the University.
Items are sent by recorded delivery to UK addresses and by airmail to non-UK addresses.
You can update your correspondence address through Student Gateway.
Certificates sent by recorded delivery that can't be delivered by Royal Mail will be returned to the University and stored for one year following your ceremony.
If your certificate is lost following posting, we will require payment of £50 to issue a duplicate if your enquiry is made more than six months after dispatch.
Your certificate will normally be sent to your correspondence address by recorded delivery (UK addresses) or Airmail (overseas addresses) within two months of results publication.
If your results were published in June, you should expect to receive your certificate by the end of September.
Please remember, students must clear all debt to the University before their certificate is dispatched and, if required, must update their correspondence address on the Student Gateway within a week of results publication.
As your certificate is an important document which can be used for various purposes, the name which appears on it should be your full name as per your birth/marriage certificate including any middle names and without abbreviations, at the time of your award being taken to the exam board.
Please ensure your name details are correct before you complete your course as reproduced certificates and European Diploma Supplements will be charged at £50 per document.
Prior to your certificate being issued, if you require a letter confirming your award, please email student.hub@solent.ac.uk and include your full name, full course title and the address the letter is to be sent to.
This letter will only be available following the publication and confirmation of your final award.
If you require a transcript of your final year results, please email student.registry@solent.ac.uk .
A certified copy of your certificate can be produced if you send a scan of your original certificate attached to an email outlining your request to certificates@solent.ac.uk .
The European Diploma Supplement is a document containing detailed course content information and students' unit results.
It was developed jointly by the European Commission, Council of Europe and UNESCO, and is now acknowledged as one of the key devices which supports the Bologna Process.
European Diploma supplements will be produced for students who have completed their full award following the publication of their results, and are normally issued in the autumn.
European diploma supplements will be posted to students as soon as possible following publication of results.
European Diploma Supplements will be sent to the correspondence address held on the student record system, although this is dependent on you not having any outstanding debt to the University.
Items will be sent by recorded delivery to UK addresses and by air mail to non-UK addresses.
You can update your correspondence address through the 'My details' section of the student portal.
Diploma Supplements that can't be delivered by Royal Mail will be returned to the University and stored for one year following your ceremony.
If the certificate that you were issued has been lost, damaged or destroyed, it may be possible for a duplicate certificate to be issued.
Copies of certificates are not held on file and a duplicate must be requested.
Only one version of a certificate can be in circulation at any one time and damaged certificates must be returned before a duplicate can be issued.
The name that appears on the certificate cannot be changed from that at the time of graduation.
Exceptional circumstances may be considered at the discretion of the University.
To apply for a replacement certificate, please select the relevant option from the awarding bodies below.
If your degree was awarded by Solent University or your HNC/D was awarded post-2005, please download, complete and return the replacement certificate form.
Download a replacement certificate form
If you have lost your HNC/D certificate, and were awarded prior to 2005, you must apply directly to Pearson for a replacement copy.
If your certificate was issued by Nottingham Trent University, please apply for a replacement certificate through the Nottingham Trent University online store .
If you completed a City and Guilds course or a Pitman Qualification, please visit the City and Guilds website and complete the online form.
If you completed a CNAA awarded degree prior to 1992 please visit the Open University website for details on how to attain documentation of confirmation of your award.
Replacement certification is not available for Institute Certificates or Diplomas.
However, it may be possible to provide a letter of confirmation if the full course title and year of graduation can be confirmed.
Please email certificates@solent.ac.uk with full details of your name, course title and dates of attendance.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduation/graduation-gifts:
Ede & Ravenscroft (Photography) Limited, the University's official graduation photographers, will be available in the Performance Sports Hall, Sports Complex, between 9am and 5pm on your graduation day.
Photos can be pre-booked on their website .
During graduation week you can order t-shirts and sweatshirts listing the names of graduating students from the Campus Clothing stand, by calling +44 0333 3403 474, or visiting their website .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduation/graduation-gowns:
As this is a formal occasion, all graduands/diplomates are required to wear graduation gowns with hood (where appropriate), as shown in the images below, and mortar board.
You are required to order this at least three weeks before your graduation ceremony.
Advisable dress code under your academic dress is: dark, smart clothes, or national dress, provided the gown can be worn over it.
As this is a formal occasion, jeans are not appropriate for the ceremony.
The University uses a company called Ede & Ravenscroft as our official supplier for graduation gowns.
To order your gown, hood (where appropriate) and mortar board, either go online at www.gownhire.co.uk or call 01223 861854.
Graduation gowns must be booked at least three weeks before your graduation ceremony.
All academic dress will be available for collection from The Spark on the day of your ceremony.
Further information on timings will be provided with your tickets.
Please note that if you hire or purchase your gown from another source, you must ensure that it is the correct colour, design and style for your level of award.
You will otherwise not be permitted to attend your graduation ceremony.
Bring some safety pins!
The graduation hood is fastened by a loop that needs to be attached to a shirt/jacket button; it's recommended that you bring some safety pins to help secure this.
It's also a good idea to bring some hairgrips to secure your mortar board.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduation/honorary-graduates:
At the annual graduation ceremonies, Southampton Solent University awards honorary degrees to those who have made an outstanding contribution to the fields of education, arts, sports, maritime studies and engineering.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduation/inviting-guests:
Students can apply for a maximum of two guest tickets.
These will be free of charge.
E-tickets will be sent out approximately two weeks before the ceremonies.
The e-ticket will be sent to the email account you used to register at the time of booking.
Please keep a note of the email address you used to register for graduation.
You will need to bring printed e-tickets to be admitted to the Guildhall.
Yes, graduation is a family occasion.
However, you must include children in your request for tickets (with the exception of babies).
If small children become upset or restless during the ceremony, we kindly ask that your guests take them out of the auditorium until they have settled.
Unfortunately we are not able to provide any crèche facilities.
Students will be allocated a specific seat in a designated “students only” area.
Guests are free to select a seat in the guest area.
Unfortunately it is not possible for us to exceed the capacity of the Guildhall.
Your family and friends will be able to watch proceedings on the internet.
You should direct them to www.solent.ac.uk and they will be able to view your ceremony live.
Your guests are welcome to take photographs or video footage, as long as they do not affect the enjoyment of other guests or interrupt the flow of the procession.
The ceremonies will be filmed and the graduation film will be available as a free download.
There will be an opportunity to let us know if either yourself or your guests have any special requirements when you book in for graduation.
We will make contact with you before your ceremony to discuss how we will meet your requirements.
If you or your guests require a visa letter to attend the ceremony, please email graduations@solent.ac.uk and include the following information in full:
You must book in for your ceremony before you request a letter.
As each application varies, please also make sure you allow plenty of time to apply for your visas.
International students graduating from Solent may be eligible for a 2- or 3-year-long graduate route visa; for more information, please see the graduate visa page on the student portal .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduation/registration:
You can book in for graduation online through the portal.
We will notify all students by email when myGraduation is open.
Registration will only take a few minutes, and you will be guided through the process.
Please note: To access the University’s services or systems, you may need to verify your identity via Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA).
Please read this guide for help with setting this up.
Unfortunately it will not be possible for you to attend your graduation ceremony if you miss the booking deadline.
There is no fee to attend the graduation ceremonies but you must book in by the deadline.
You will be required to hire your academic dress; the cost of hire is approximately £45 depending on your award.
The company which holds the official University academic dress is called Ede & Ravenscroft and you will be able to hire your gown at www.gownhire.co.uk
You will need to book your academic dress before you receive your results.
Should you not be eligible to attend, Ede & Ravenscroft will refund the cost of your gown hire.
Any student who requires financial support to assist with the cost of academic dress should contact the funding team .
Yes, you will be able to register your intent to attend the ceremony.
If you have outstanding debts to the University, it will not be possible to book in for your graduation ceremony.
Your e-tickets will be sent to you by email before your ceremony.
We will use the email address you provided when booking in for graduation.
You should check your junk mail folder if you can’t see your e-tickets in your inbox.
Please email graduations@solent.ac.uk if you have not received your e-tickets by Monday 3 July 2023.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/alumni/how-we-can-help-you:
As a part of our global alumni network, you can take advantage of a range of benefits.
Have a browse below to see what’s on offer and remember to check back often for any newly added benefits.
Use your alumni ID card to access exclusive gym memberships and a variety of benefits for being a member of the Solent University alumni network.
Cards are processed on a quarterly basis; dates of when you can expect your request to be fully processed are on the application form.
Order yours now
If you're looking to further your studies, you are eligible for a 20% reduction of tuition fees on a postgraduate degree.
Careers support from the University doesn’t end after you leave.
Whether you’re looking for career advice or business support, we’re here to help you for life.
Continued exclusive access for £10.99 per month to our gym and the Solent Sports Complex at East Park Terrace.
If you do not have an alumni card, contact us to order one.
We run a range of events open to our alumni throughout the year from alumni reunions to guest lectures.
Alumni are entitled to free subscriber membership of the library.
Membership will allow you to borrow up to four books at a time (requested in advance) with two renewals, where possible, by phone or email.
Access an exclusive LinkedIn group with over 5,000 members.
The group will provide information about up-coming events, opportunities to work with the University, and exclusive competitions.
Members of our alumni who graduated within the past year are eligible to apply for a business start-up grant of up to £3,500.
If you have a genuine and credible business idea, we can help you take those first steps.
Receive a bi-monthly newsletter which will provide information about up-coming events, exclusive events, and shines a light on the successes of our alumni.
Sign up now
Exclusive access to our Solent Creatives service which connects creative student talent at Solent to businesses.
If you have a creative business need, Solent Creatives is the answer.
Our apprenticeships team provide a variety of higher and degree apprenticeships which are the ideal way for you to advance your career.
As a Solent alum, the team would be happy to meet you and discuss the opportunities available.
Regular competitions throughout the year which are exclusive to our alumni.
We work closely with our business partners to provide prizes.
Make sure you have joined the alumni LinkedIn group and signed up to alumni newsletter to ensure you don’t miss out.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/kickstart-your-uni-social-life:
In just a few weeks’ time, you’ll be starting uni!
You might be feeling excited and totally ready for it.
Or, you might be feeling excited, but slightly nervous about meeting new people and making friends.
We've got some tips that'll help you through the first few weeks of building up your circle of new friends.
Whether you're leaving home to start uni in a new town or city, or you're going to uni in your hometown, one of the biggest concerns for new students is "How am I going to make new friends?"
Some of you may be super confident and will have no problem putting yourself out there to meet new people.
But quite a lot of new students do worry about meeting and making new friends, not to mention finding their way around a new town or city.
If you're feeling that way, the first thing to remember is that you are not alone!
There are some simple, tried-and-tested ways to get to know people when you first start uni.
We've listed some below:
The easiest way to get to know your neighbours in halls, or your classmates, even before you start uni, is through social media.
Most universities will have Unibuddy community groups or Facebook groups for you to join and start mingling.
So make sure you follow your chosen university on their channels.
If you're moving into halls or into a house share, prop your door open while you're moving into your room and sorting stuff out.
People will be walking past all the time, and it's a great way to show that you're up for meeting new people.
And once you're all moved in, why not head for the kitchen or social areas to see who's around there.
Obvious topics of conversation will be names, where you're from, what you're studying, etc – a great ice breaker, seeing as you're all in the same situation.
Also, if you've finished moving all your stuff in but people are still arriving, offer to help them out.
No one's going to turn down a helping hand and if you've already had a look around, you can point them in the direction of the kitchen or the laundry room.
Being kind to someone will always be remembered.
Uni clubs and societies are a great place to meet and make new friends.
As well as many of you being new students, you'll all have a common interest.
Check out the societies at your uni's welcome week or freshers' fair.
Many societies are run by students' unions, so you could do a bit of pre-uni research on their websites to see what societies there are to join.
Get a head start by reading our article about clubs and societies .
There are usually a number of freshers' events organised by universities.
Party animals will probably be looking forward to freshers' nights out, which are often organised by students' unions.
But, nights out aren't everyone's cup of tea.
So, if you're not a night owl, there will be loads of daytime events and activities all aimed at helping you to get to know one another and get your bearings around campus and in town.
Lots of students choose to go to uni in their home town and live with their parents, for a variety of reasons.
This doesn't mean you'll necessarily miss out on what students living away from home experience, and certainly shouldn't make it any harder to meet and make new friends, although you may have to make more of a concerted effort.
You might find that by not living on campus or in halls your friends may be more course-based, unless you join any societies, of course.
But if you can, going on a few nights out will help you meet other first years.
Weirdly, you may also find that you become good friends with other students who live at home - you've definitely got that in common!
Plus, you've got a bit of an advantage over those who've moved to your home town, which can be a great way to meet new people – you know your way around!
So, if you spot a fellow first year looking a bit lost or wanting to know where a good place is in town to get a coffee, you'll know exactly where to point them to.
Remember, though, you'll meet tons of people while you're at uni, and the people you meet in your first couple of weeks may not end up being your friends for life.
Just remember to be yourself, and you'll make lots of friends, be it those you know for sure you'll stay in touch with after uni and beyond, or those who you'll just stop and have a chat to while you're making dinner or walking to lectures.
Everyone is just as important and will help to make your time at uni the best time!

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/halls-or-home-what-youll-need-for-uni-life:
You have just a few short weeks to go until you start university!
And whether you’re moving into halls, private rented accommodation, or commuting from home, we’ve got the vital list of things you’ll need to make your life easy.
If you're still unsure about where you'll be living, check out our article on choosing student accommodation .
Now, this list may sound obvious, but when you already have a million and one things to think about, it might be helpful to make that checklist so you can be relaxed and focussed for when you start your studies.
When you first go into university, one of the first things you’ll need to do is enrol, and your uni will tell you what you’ll need to bring for this, from ID to medical info.
Just remember to pack them before you move into halls or make your way from home on your first day!
You may have already been given a reading list before starting your course.
It’s always great to get lovely fresh new books, but they can be pricey and you may only need them for a couple of years, so always look for second-hand ones, either from Amazon or eBay, or maybe your uni can help you get them from previous students.
Being prepared always helps with those first day nerves too.
Check if you need other special items for your course such as calculators, or sketch books.
And having a good old fashion notebook and pen is always useful whatever course you do!
Make sure you have your charger with you, especially if you’re commuting.
You may have had a long day of checking lesson plans on your uni app and find you’ve run out of battery before you travel back to halls or to home.
Don’t get caught out - you can always charge up in the library or café on campus.
Getting a power bank is always useful and helps you to charge on the go.
If you don’t already have a laptop or tablet, don’t feel pressure to invest in one.
If you can, its always helpful as you’ll want to be able to write essays from the comfort of your room, but don’t forget most unis also offer laptop loans from the library, so you can use one for free.
Whether you are commuting from halls or home, it’s important to make your commute as easy as possible.
Having a good bag that can hold everything you need safely goes without saying (and who doesn’t like a good bag!).
Also, making sure you have a water bottle, and your travelcard is important so you can get from A to B without hassle and on-budget, so you can save on fares and not have to keep buying drinks on the go.
Oh and snacks!
It’s always nice buying food on campus when they have so many lovely options, but budgeting can be tough as a student, so being prepared with lunch and snacks before you start your day can help make your budget go further and keep you on track for nutrition.
But who’s to say you can’t treat yourself to a sausage roll on campus from time to time!
So you’ve got your accommodation booked and now you need everything to live your independent lifestyle.
You’ll need all those practical things to make your life easy, as well as make your new home cosy and personal.
Here's a list of a few useful things to take with you.
You may just think you need a couple if things but it’s surprising what adds up when you make that checklist!
It's worth check what your halls already supply, as you may not need appliances like toasters and kettles, especially if you have a shared kitchen.
Now is your chance to try out those recipes you always to, but you’ll at least need some essentials to get you through the most basic of meals.
Results day has arrived.
Whether you've had good news or bad, check out our advice on what to do next.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/get-stuck-in-with-clubs-and-societies:
University societies have the potential to create great memories for you during your time at uni.
No matter what your interests are, you'll be able to find (or start) a university club or society suited to you!
Clubs and societies are normally looked after by your students' union (if you want to find out more about students' unions we've got an A-Z here ).
Sometimes sports teams are looked after by the university, but it differs wherever you go.
Make sure you check both your university and the students' union website when you're looking!
Essentially, a club or society is an opportunity to meet like-minded people or to try new activities.
There are many different types of clubs and societies ranging from political, cultural, artistic, sport, media, faith and more.
Clubs and societies often have a committee of members who look after all the business aspects too.
You can have a chair or someone who is essentially in charge, treasurer, social secretary, marketing team and loads more.
So, another benefit of joining is that you'll be getting some work experience as well.
University is a great place to pursue your passions, or even find a new one!
Getting as much experience as possible at university helps broaden your horizons and a great way to do this is to join a club or society.
And you can find people who love the same thing you do - you'll make tons of friends and your social life will be nice and full.
Clubs and societies can cover so many different things - make sure you check out all the ones available, so whether it's drama or films, politics or trampolining, football or frisbee there's going to be something for you.
And if nothing on offer interests you, remember you can always start a new one!
No matter how niche, there may just be someone out there wanting to join you.
There have been many weird and wonderful clubs and societies that have come before, such as Extreme Ironing at University of Nottingham, Custard Wrestling Society at Cardiff University, Hummus Society at LSE, or Disney Society at University of Exeter (see, there really is something for everyone!).
If you have a passion for sport and want to carry on in a sport you already love, there will almost definitely be a sports team for you to join.
Or there could be a sport you've always wanted to try, like snowboarding, bouldering, fencing or horse riding - it’s a great opportunity to do something new.
You can even get competitive and get involved in league sports.
Some sports clubs here at Solent compete in the BUCS (British University and College Sport) leagues or local/national leagues.
The great thing about playing competitively is you could be travelling across the UK, or even abroad, to compete against other universities.
So, if you've got some good skills to bring, you could be part of a championship team!
There are loads of perks to joining a club - making new friends, sharing passions, getting active, gaining confidence and learning new things.
If you've checked out the clubs and societies at your university and your favourite thing isn't there, don't worry.
They're SUPER easy to start.
The thought of starting a society may seem daunting but it’s easily done.
All you have to do is get a group of at least four like-minded people together and fill in a new society application form.
The students' union or university will then review it to make sure it fits their values and that there’s nothing too similar already available.
The chances are, if you’re interested in starting a society, there will be people that will want to join!

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/starting-uni-a-checklist:
Well done, you!
You've researched careers, looked at lots of unis, made your application, studied hard, and now you're in!
The first thing you need to think about is settling into university and before you arrive it's worth checking through your emails and getting all the information you need so that you're ready for when you arrive on campus.
Your university will send you some enrolment instructions which will tell you what documents to bring and what you'll need to do to enrol at the university.
You may have to pre-register before you arrive, so make sure you follow any instructions you’re given to help things go smoothly.
You’ll also need to register for a doctor if you are moving into the area.
And make sure your vaccinations are up to date before coming to uni.
Although not many things will protect you from Fresher's flu, it's wise to make sure you're vaccinated against meningitis.
If you're moving into halls, you should also have received some information about what day and time you need to move in.
Make sure you've packed everything you need ( we have a handy list here ) and that you're ready to go.
There will be people on hand to help direct you to where you need to be, and, if you ask nicely, maybe help with some heavy lifting.
You'll also receive a timetable for your course and the first week of sessions to get you started as a student.
As part of that week, there will be an allotted time for enrolment.
It's important that you attend so you can get your all-important campus card which you’ll use to get around uni, log your attendance and use in the library.
Your uni may also have a welcome week - also known as freshers' week - which is a timetable of activities to get acclimatised as a student, as well as the famous freshers' fair.
Freshers’ week or fortnight (depending on where you go) is SO much fun.
From the day you arrive there will be so many activities to take part in.
There will be a range of day and night-time activities to suit all tastes, both on and off campus.
You also want to head over to the stand of clubs and societies.
We covered it last week , but it's where you'll go to sign up for all the interesting sports clubs and societies.
Whatever you end up doing, make the most of it.
It's a great chance to meet new people, discover new things, and get your university life off to a great start!
52 weeks ago you started your journey to university and now you’ve made it!
If you still need some advice, get in touch with us via any of the methods below and we’d be happy you help you.
Phone: 023 8201 3000
Email: admissions@solent.ac.uk
Wishing you all the best with your studies!

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/sebastian-taghizadeh:
From student to Spurs First Team Scout, Sebastian helped win the Europa League, proof that education and opportunity can lead to success.
Job title: First Team Scout
Employer: Tottenham Hotspur
Studied: BSc (Hons) Football Studies
Sebastian helped Spurs win the Europa League.
From student to First Team Scout, his journey shows how passion, education, and opportunity can lead to football success.
It was a whirlwind of emotions: pure joy mixed with immense relief.
On match day, our direct involvement was minimal, as most of the groundwork happens throughout the season through strategic squad planning, scouting, and recruitment.
This campaign was particularly challenging due to persistent injury issues, which affected our Premier League form.
So, to finish with a major European trophy and secure Champions League qualification was incredibly satisfying.
Personally, it was rewarding to see players I helped recruit, with the rest of the team, play such pivotal roles in our success.
The diversity in their personalities, expertise, and real-world experience made every lecture engaging.
I felt like I learnt something new in every lecture or seminar.
Excellent.
The classrooms were modern and comfortable, but I especially appreciated the facilities at Test Park—they mirrored those at professional football clubs.
I genuinely recommend Solent University, especially the football studies programme, to anyone considering it.
My experience was outstanding, thanks to the excellent staff, supportive student community, strong industry connections, and top-tier facilities.
Absolutely.
The course taught me how to communicate effectively, manage pressure, and meet tight deadlines.
It also covered a broad range of relevant topics, from coaching and psychology to business and globalisation, all of which are directly applicable in football.
Yes, Solent offered numerous internships with a wide range of football clubs across many departments like coaching, sport science, analysis as well as scouting and recruitment.
After my first year, I secured an internship at West Ham United as an Academy Recruitment Analyst thanks to the university’s support.
My dissertation tutor, Graham Mills, and other lecturers were incredibly supportive, especially during my final year when I was juggling full-time work as a first team football scout at Watford Football Club, studies, and personal life during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Away from playing and coaching at amateur level, my professional career included working as:
Without Solent, I wouldn’t have landed the internship at West Ham.
That experience gave me industry exposure, built my network, and was crucial in securing full-time roles.
I’ve been football-obsessed from a young age—thanks in part to Football Manager and FIFA Career Mode!
I knew I wanted to be a First Team Scout.
I explored how to break into the football industry without being a professional player and quickly realised that university was the best route—especially with Solent’s strong alumni network and its football-specific course.
The hours are long.
I am constantly away from my family and friends, and I often miss birthdays or weddings due to travel.
But it never feels like work.
I’m living my dream.
Seeing players that I’ve recommended succeed within the team or be sold for profit is incredibly rewarding.
What are you working on now?
Every day is different.
The exciting part is that I get to travel the world for my job.
I’ve travelled across Europe and even to Indonesia for the U17 World Cup in 2023.
Next, I’m heading to the U.S.
for the 2025 FIFA Club World Cup.
With the summer transfer window open, I’m excited to help shape our squad for the upcoming 2025-26 season.
The UEFA Europa League win with Tottenham is definitely a standout.
That said, there have been several other milestones I’m equally proud of.
Gaining my first industry experience at West Ham United was a major step, and securing my first full-time role at Watford was a significant breakthrough.
I also take great pride in tracking the progress of players I’ve helped recruit.
Seeing them succeed at the clubs I’ve worked with is incredibly rewarding.
You have to be truly obsessed with the game.
It’s not enough to simply like or even love it.
The industry can be demanding, with long hours, low pay early on, and plenty of setbacks.
But if you stay consistent and committed, the rewards will come.
For me, two things were key:
· gaining real-world experience through a student placement, and
· building strong relationships.
Someone once told me, “your network is your net worth” —and that’s stuck with me ever since.
The course is designed and tailored for those individuals passionate about football, enthusiastic to learn from the game in order to reach their aspirations to work within it....
Develop your passion for sport, and progress to a successful career leading and managing sporting events and organisations on this CIMPSA accredited course.
Gain real-world skills, knowledge, and experience, to prepare you for an impactful career in sports coaching and physical education.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of sport and exercise performance with this BASES-endorsed degree that combines access to specialist facilities with professional placements and a hands-on learning.
Sports Therapist
Saracens Rugby Club
Community Ambassador
Be Active Bedfordshire

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/abbie-sheridan:
Since graduating from Solent, Abbie has travelled the world working on blockbuster films.
Studied: BA (Hons) Television Production
I’ve had some amazing experiences.
Yes, I get to meet many, many famous actors and actresses.
But I also travel to different countries such as Morocco, Nepal, Iceland - flying in helicopters, chartered flights - and get paid for it.
Wrap parties are fun, where you receive gifts and one-of-a-kind film memorabilia.
We get to see the finished film at cast and crew screenings.
And I’ve witnessed Ben Affleck sing karaoke.
But I have to mention the not-so ‘perks of the job’, particularly the hours and schedule.
We will often work long filming days (continuous, with no lunch break) starting at 6am and finishing no earlier than 7pm.
Working weekends are a regular thing, as are weeks and weeks of night shoots.
All the hard work of Solent’s television production degree is worth it, trust me.
It’s not always ‘who you know’ in this industry
My degree in television and video production helped me integrate into working life by teaching me how to be organised.
I wouldn't be able to do my job if I couldn't organise crews, have the confidence to speak up to people, inform them of problems and then create solutions.
At Solent, I was always able to speak to my tutors to get advice on how to make our TV shows better, and I feel this has given me confidence to speak to my superiors on how I can improve and become a better assistant director.
The course was the perfect gateway to where I am now.
Without it, I doubt I would have made it in the video world.
I’d recommend it to those who enjoy the idea of expressing their creative ideas through video, either online or in the broadcast realm.
It’s not always ‘who you know’ in this industry - I have absolutely no ties in the film industry, either family or friends.
I managed to get in on the back of a Facebook post and what I gained from Solent - so if I can do it, anyone can.
Get the hands-on experience for a rewarding career in the creative industries on this ScreenSkills accredited degree.
Our graduates have gone on to work at Sky, Amazon, Apple TV, the BBC and more.
Archive Producer
Producer
Sky Creative
Film Director

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/abbie-elise-rogers:
Abbie is studying Assistant Practitioner (Health) Apprenticeship and tells us about her experiences of studying at Solent University.
Studied: Assistant Practitioner (Health) Apprenticeship
Abbie is studying the Assistant Practitioner (Health) Apprenticeship.
In this video, she tells us about her experiences of studying at Solent University.
Healthcare assistant practitioners work as part of the wider health and social care team, and have direct contact with patients, service users or clients providing high quality...
Southampton Primary Care Ltd

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/abby-coombes:
Abby graduated from English and Creative writing at Solent and talks about what it was like to study at Solent.
You are passionate about literature, open-minded, and enjoy and value a small community (both the uni as a whole and the course).
The lecturers genuinely care about their students and want to see them achieve their full potential.
They put so much into their lectures and seminars to make them an intellectually stimulating experience.
And they were also really good at letting us know about creative writing competitions and other work experience opportunities in the industry.
Throughout the three years, there were several units that helped us acquire the skills required to work in publishing and other related industries.
The work experience unit in the third year and the Business of Independent Publishing unit in the second year proved invaluable – and the skills I picked up are transferable into many careers, not just publishing.
Many of our seminars have stuck with me, too, because they were thought-provoking and a safe space for students to express themselves and be heard.
In fact, the same can be said for all our lectures and seminars!
And the Business of Independent Publishing unit springs to mind again, because it was an eye-opening experience and gave me the opportunity to lead a group and work within the Southampton community.
My friends from Solent are friends for life.
I also left with new life skills and career-orientated skills.
I enjoyed being a Solent student – both life in halls and in a student house.
Southampton really is a city of culture.
Coming from a very rural town, living in a city with everything on my doorstep or within walking distance was amazing!
The nights out with my housemates and friends.
Also the opportunity to go to Paris in 2019 on Solent English’s Literary Grand Tour.
As daunting and scary as university seems, it will turn out to be the best experience of your life.
Look for the lessons and opportunities in everything – everything happens for a reason.
English is so much more than just reading and writing.
So many other subjects overlap, such as history, philosophy, media studies and psychology, to name a few.
English matters because you can learn so much, not just outwardly by looking at society, but inwardly by questioning and reflecting on yourself and having conversations with academics.
Persevere and make connections wherever possible, and take opportunities to gain experience and meet people – you never know where it could lead.
Turn your love of sports into a writing career.
Join the longest running BJTC-accredited sports journalism degree in the UK, where graduates go into jobs with the biggest names in the industry.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/abel-oghenero-akeni:
Abel Oghenero Akeni studied MSc Applied AI and Data Science after working in a related industry for 7 years.
Job title: Data Analyst
Employer: UK Government
Studied: MSc Applied AI and Data Science
Abel Oghenero Akeni, an international alumnus, had already spent seven years in a related field before deciding that it was time to progress and take on bigger challenges in exploring the world of AI and data science.
He now works as a Data Analyst for the UK Government.
A postgraduate course, particularly the one in Solent University, presented the prospect of broader career opportunities through the acquisition of specialised skills.
I had spent 7 years in the industry, leading different pieces of research and data analysis workstreams; it was time to move on, take on bigger challenges and explore the world of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
The accessibility and approachability of the lecturers were exceptional.
Their courses were modelled to solve real-world problems and prepare us for work.
For example, one module included a requirement for us to critique up to 4 machine-learning models before deciding on one to solve a forecasting problem we were given.
This was a recurring theme in job interviews; for each piece of analysis, I was often asked what alternatives I considered and sacrificed and why.
The skills acquired in building machine learning models and working in more depth with Pandas in Python for large datasets have empowered me with the confidence needed to thrive.
I currently support the £12 billion Energy Bills Support Scheme as an analyst facilitating delivery of £400 to approximately 30 million UK households.
In one instance, I had to conduct an analysis using Python to identify areas with the poorest redemption rates to support the program’s policy and communications team in conducting remedial action.
I would say take the practice exercises very seriously as they are indicative of the kinds of data-driven problems you would be solving.
Keep a personal professional development log of soft and hard skills and analytical techniques you have practised in a particular month.
Above all, start your application early.
As a mature student, I had to maintain a delicate balance between coursework, research, working part-time and a personal life, to maintain a healthy work/life/study balance.
Solent University provided a mix of academic and non-academic opportunities.
I got to network with colleagues from other countries as part of a volunteer group that organised the 2022 Solent’s Python Quiz competition and as part of another team that delivered the Solent Computing and Artificial Intelligence Department (SCAIDs) conference in same year.
Advance your career with this cyber security conversion course, gain expert skills, industry insights, and hands-on experience to tackle real-world cyber threats and network security.
Software Developer
Lockheed Martin

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/abigail-bignell:
Popular music performance student, Abigail Bignell shares her Clearing story and her career aspirations.
Job title: Current student
Studied: BMus (Hons) Popular Music Performance
I went through Clearing because I had a sudden last-minute change of heart about the uni I'd been accepted into and my career path, so I felt my best chance of seeing the current available options that were relevant to my new aspirations would be to look at UCAS clearing.
Really easy; the hotline was really easy to reach despite being on holiday in another country at the time!
All I had to do was find a course I felt was the best match, phone the uni's Clearing hotline to enquire, and answer some questions about my grades from college.
Don't wait to find the right course for you, the courses that are available on Clearing are likely to have limited spaces left, so if you see one that appeals to you just apply!
If any doubts crop up later or during your course, the teams dedicated to helping and advising students at Solent are really supportive and will talk you through your options and help you find something more suitable!
Equally, if you're unsure whether uni is right for you or are having second thoughts about your career path/uni choice, like I did, don't apply through Clearing for the sake of it.
Uni is expensive and a big commitment to working towards a degree that you'll have for the rest of your life, so make sure you're 100% happy with your decision and you know its the right thing to do for you!
The woman on the phone was really helpful and explained everything really clearly, and put my mind at ease during a really stressful time!
My favourite bits about my degree is how practical it is!
I love that we get assessed throughout the year based on our coursework as exams and revision weren't always my favourite thing!
I also love how involved the lecturers are during seminars, lectures and rehearsals, and how we constantly get feedback to help us improve all the time, rather than just at the end of an exam.
The biggest challenges are probably adapting to working with loads of different people frequently due to rehearsals and gigs, but this is also really beneficial and realistic of a professional working environment
I hope to continue writing original material, producing it, and releasing songs.
I'd also love to be able to gig with them and work full-time solely off of music; whether that be more gigs, festivals, cruise ships, I'm open to lots of opportunities that I hope will make for a really enjoyable career!
Take your passion for playing and performing skills to the next stage - join Solent’s community of creatives and learn from a dedicated team of professional musicians, composers and producers.
Play and produce your tracks.
Produce the perfect sounds in cutting-edge studios and collaborate with the community of creatives out of Southampton’s vibrant music scene.
Want to make club-ready tracks, or audio for top level games and film?
Senior Audio Designer
RevRooms
UK Promotions Assistant
[PIAS]
SUPRAPHON a.s.
(Prague, CZ)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/adam-long:
Adam's experiences on the digital music course, including networking opportunities, have set him on the right path to a successful career.
Job title: Solent Creatives Adviser
Employer: Southampton Solent University
Studied: BA (Hons) Digital Music
Digital music is just an umbrella term for creative music production.
It’s the process of using digital technologies such as computers, digital audio workstations and synthesisers to arrange, create and manipulate elements of music.
If you want to learn about a variety of key elements of electronic music production, this course is for you.
With an emphasis on dance music, it also looks at key industry skills, such as music for film, live performance, and audio engineering.
Having a wider range of core units allowed me to experiment with different areas and then discover a further interest in digital sound design, which has led to me wanting to pursue a career as a sound designer for film or TV.
Make sure it is something you are 100% passionate about.
It's that passion that will keep the drive going to succeed or improve.
If you want a career in the industry, try and get out of your comfort zones and experiment with as many production techniques as possible to find a unique sound to your music.
I don't think it's possible to pick one defining moment, but I think as a whole it's got to be the people you meet along the way.
You meet some amazing friends and its extra special when you can find an instant common ground with your love for music.
I really only started producing music as a hobby because I really wanted to learn how drum ‘n’ bass was created, but then I decided to head to uni and attempt to make my music more professional.
In terms of career, I've just graduated and am currently in the middle of a gap year.
I plan on building up a sound design portfolio and gathering as much voluntary music-related work experience as I can in this time, and then hopefully return to Solent to study on a postgraduate course.
Having been able to network while at Solent I managed to play DJ support for Andy C – one of my idols within music – at Soundclash Festival 2016.
This was extra special for me because I was able to play alongside one of my best mates from uni, too.
The music business offers many careers within artist management, record labels, streaming platforms and live event promotion.
Our graduates now work at Universal, Spotify, The O2 and Live Nation.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/adam-powney:
Adam is a social media manager for for the armed forces and talks about how Solent helped him gain the skills needed for his work.
University prepared me for my career by pushing me into gaining work experience and surrounding myself with like-minded professionals.
You learn a huge amount, not only about the industry but also about yourself and the skills you can transfer into other avenues.
After two years of broadcasting in Wiltshire and the Falklands Islands with our armed forces, I moved across to the social media team to become a social media manager.
This role is in two parts.
The first is managing the organisation’s social media, including the social media pages for all radio stations.
The second is to coach on the first-ever free 12-week social media course – #SMSpouses – for the spouses and partners of our British armed forces.
My favourite Solent memory has to be when I produced my second-year radio project, ‘A Young Pilot’, and got the opportunity to go flying multiple times.
The thing I most enjoy is the ability to change lives.
Not only do we connect, inform, entertain and champion our armed forces, but we also change the lives of their families too.
I have always had a passion for content creation and education, so this role marries the two perfectly.
Those we educate use the course to either enhance their business or learn skills to be able to take on new, work-from-home jobs.
Our community moves around the forces world with little job stability, so we give them the tools to take ownership of their own careers.
My greatest achievements have been the honour to broadcast from multiple red carpets, and also to do the breakfast show 8,000 miles away, in the Falkland Islands.
Say yes – then learn how to do it (within reason).
Don’t waste an opportunity – make the most of it.
Be passionate and love what you do.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/adam-smelt:
Adam talks to us about gaining entry to his degree through a foundation year and how the course helped him choose his career path.
Job title: Mechanical Design Engineer
Employer: Falcon Tenders
Studied: BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
I finished sixth form and then tried finding a job I liked; after a year I realised I wanted to really challenge myself and study engineering.
I chose Solent for two reasons.
First, it was the closest uni to my home – I’m a local and was born and raised in Southampton.
Second, I’d had a pretty bad experience in education prior to uni and sixth form.
I left school with only two GCSEs, but Solent allowed me to study engineering, provided I complete their science and engineering foundation year.
During university I’ve had the good fortune meet some wonderful lecturers.
They all have their own quirks, but they have a great level of experience and provide a great space to learn.
From my course leader, Janet, who provided endless help and support, both academically and on a personal level; to my CAD and design lecturer, Fayyaz, who inspired me to pursue a career in mechanical design engineering; and my materials science lecturer, Rob, who helped me get overcome difficult academic subjects and get through my third year.
From my very first year at uni, in my foundation year, I tried to be like a sponge!
I absorbed every bit of knowledge I could, and I tried and tried and tried my luck at networking constantly.
As the saying goes, it’s not just what you know, but who.
In my second year I realised my passion and ability for computer-aided design (CAD), even starting a CAD workshop in the third year to share tips and tricks and knowledge.
And through networking I managed to get a freelance job creating technical drawings for companies sending their products to be manufactured.
This was my first taste of working in industry.
Then last December, again through networking, I managed to get an interview with a luxury boat building company.
They weren’t looking for someone with my skillset but saw the potential benefits and skills I would bring to the company.
So, in January I started working for Falcon Tenders as an intern mechanical design engineer.
I was immediately thrown in the deep end, getting stuck straight into big design projects.
I spent the majority of my final year at uni chaotically balancing my studies and my internship.
This was immensely challenging but eventually I managed to find my feet.
Sometimes you have to run before you can walk!
I now work full time for Falcon Tenders as their one and only mechanical design engineer, helping bring mechanical engineering skills and knowledge to the design team and bring design concepts to a practical and functional reality.
I have been very lucky to have made some truly great friends at Solent.
I hope and plan to stay in touch as we move onto the next chapter in our lives.
Studying at Solent, you’re right in the centre of Southampton, so it’s very convenient.
Southampton has given me all the best opportunities in my life!
Plus it’s my hometown, which was great … and I could go home every day to see my dog!

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/adam-virani:
Adam completed two 'invaluable' placements as part of his course, graduating with real world experience and confidence to start his career.
Job title: Child Contact Officer, and Male Domestic Violence Case Worker
Employer: Relationships Australia NSW
Studied: BA (Hons) Social Work
Adam studied BA (Hons) Social Work to help provide support to others in need.
Benefiting from two work placements as part of his course, he has used the experiences to transition into new roles and drive his career forward in Australia.
Here he reflects on his time and development at Solent and how his experiences have helped him pursue his dream career.
Having grown up as a gay man from an Indian/Muslim background in a small conservative town in the UK, I dealt with more than my fair share of identity crises and mental health struggles.
I found strength through the help of trusted individuals and therapy.
It was during this time I realised that I wanted to provide the same support to others, and social work became the perfect blend of channelling my personal experiences and finding a career that could help others break through the tough stuff too.
Oh yes!
I wondered if I’d be emotionally destroyed before I even finished the first module.
Social work is heavy business, especially if you’ve already got a bit of emotional baggage.
But Solent was like my safety blanket.
My course mates, my lecturers, and the endless reflection sessions - they all made sure I wasn’t drowning in empathy but learning how to manage it like a pro.
Honestly, it was like being taught by superheroes in regular clothes!!
These lecturers had seen it all in the social work world, and still managed to be the most approachable bunch of humans you’ll ever meet.
They weren’t just about theory too - they showed us how to navigate the reality of social work with patience, resilience and curiosity.
No question was ever too small or too ridiculous (trust me I tested that!).
Yes, I had two placements that were absolutely pivotal in shaping me as a Social Worker.
The first was with the Protection and Court Child Safeguarding team with Southampton City Council where I gained invaluable experience in child protection and court-related cases.
The second was a joint Southampton City Council / Southampton Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) team, where I worked alongside health and social care professionals, leading on Large Scale Safeguarding Enquiries / Quality Assurance with local care providers.
Both of these placements helped me develop critical skills in case management, safeguarding, and multi-agency work - all of which have been incredibly useful as I’ve transitioned into new roles.
It was 100% a balancing act between course work, placements, and trying to maintain some sort of social life.
But despite the busy schedule, I never felt like I was going it alone.
I always had someone to turn to, whether that was a classmate or a lecturer.
Plus, the placement aspect gave me a sense of purpose early on.
By the time I graduated, I wasn’t just leaving with a degree but with real world experience that made me feel confident stepping into my first role.
I was able to develop a network of professionals that I’m still in touch with today, even after moving abroad to Australia.
Solent equipped me with the skills, knowledge, and confidence to step straight into social work.
The focus on practical and real-world application of social work theory gave me a solid foundation.
My placements not only introduced me to child protection and healthcare settings but also helped me develop key interpersonal and case management skills.
These experiences were vital when I decided to move to Australia, as I was able to transfer many of these skills to my new roles here.
Solent taught me the importance of adaptability and critical thinking, which has been crucial in working in an international setting.
One of my proudest moments was supporting a man with dementia, a history of suicide attempts, and frequent hospital admissions for self-neglect and insulin overdoses after his wife passed away the previous year.
He was aggressive towards staff and hated being in the hospital, making discharge planning even more challenging.
I discovered that he loved dogs, so I arranged for a local dementia charity to bring a therapy dog to visit him twice a week on the ward.
Not only did this lift his spirits, but it also helped nurses engage with him more effectively.
Fighting against pressures for a rushed discharge, I coordinated with diabetes nurses, dementia specialists, mental health teams, and local charities to develop a comprehensive long-term care plan that respected his wish to stay at home.
This approach prevented readmissions, and he was only admitted once in the remaining eight months I worked in the team.
Moments like these remind me why I chose this profession!
Currently, I’m working as a Child Contact Officer, and Male Domestic Violence Support Worker at Relationships Australia NSW.
In my Child Contact role, I manage supervised contact sessions between children and their non-residential parents, ensuring the safety and well-being of everyone involved.
In my role as a Male Domestic Violence Support Worker, I provide crisis support and long-term services to men affected by domestic violence.
Australia has been a wild and crazy adventure, but thanks to Solent, the skills I learned back in the UK translated pretty smoothly.
I’m loving the challenge of learning new systems while bringing some British social work flair to the table!
If you’re thinking of studying social work, be prepared for a challenging yet deeply rewarding career.
It requires resilience, empathy, and a commitment to continuous curiosity and learning.
It’s tested me in ways I didn’t anticipate, but it also gave rewarding moments I didn’t think were possible.
My main piece of advice - is definitely make the most of your placements - they are your crash course in the realities of the job.
And don’t be afraid to lean on your course mates and lecturers.
Solent is fantastic for offering real world experience and the support you’ll need to navigate it.
I took a few weeks out of work in Sydney to spend some time volunteering at the Yayasan Widya Sari Foundation in Tianyar - Indonesia.
I helped with young children in a kindergarten setting in the mornings, supporting the teachers with childcare.
In the afternoons, I am teaching English to 2 classes of 15 children aged 13 - 15 years old.
This hands-on experience allowed me to foster creativity, patience, and cross-cultural communication, while contributing to the community’s educational efforts.
On one of the weekdays, we support the children to complete a clean-up of trash on the nearby beach.
It has been an incredibly rewarding opportunity to create meaningful connections and witness the children’s growth over my few weeks in the program.
/
Moving to Australia was one of the best decisions I’ve made, and it’s been a total game-changer both personally and professionally.
Solent set me up to thrive not just in the UK, but internationally.
I’m so incredibly grateful for the experiences I had at Solent and would encourage anyone to consider it as the starting point for a rewarding and impactful career.
Extend your professional status and portfolio as a social worker to enable the learning of social work students and newly qualified social workers within placements.
Looking for a career change to social worker?
You’ll work with some of the most marginalised groups in society, helping them to overcome barriers in order to lead a fulfilled life.
Further your career and understanding of healthcare related topics such as communication, anatomy and physiology and public health, on this challenging and fulfilling course
Coastal Jazz and Blues Society

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/adam-whyte:
Adam, Southampton FC social media lead and sports journalism graduate, tells us how his degree opened the doors to a successful career.
Job title: Social Media Lead
Employer: Southampton Football Club
Studied: BA (Hons) Sports Journalism
The facilities available for the sports journalism course were outstanding.
The state-of-the-art television and radio facilities are perfect for students to get a real taste of what it’s like to work professionally in the journalism world.
Combine this with the weekly news days and the time pressures that come with that, and you come out of your degree with a wealth of experience.
Plus, the course provided many opportunities to work with local sports clubs.
I feel my studies were perfect for preparing me for my future career.
Not only my studies but also the opportunities the course provided in terms of work experience.
I worked with Eastleigh FC for the final year of my studies and for a year post and it was integral to helping me get the job with Southampton FC.
You learn the tricks of the trade but also build up valuable contacts.
This is all not only activity encouraged by the course but also integrated into your degree.
The guest speakers were always brilliant.
Being an Arsenal fan, it was great to listen to David Dein for example.
It was also always cool to hear and watch your work back as part of the news days.
It really gave you a sense that you were working as part of the professional environment.
Each lecturer had plenty of experience of the industry, being able to provide expertise but also insightful anecdotes of their time working within the sector.
It was a highly enjoyable and rewardable experience for me to work with National League side, Eastleigh during my studies.
Here I got the chance to cover football games every weekend, write match reports, cover games on social media, interview personalities and gather contacts.
I would encourage everyone on the Sports Journalism course to seek out the opportunities provided by Eastleigh and over local clubs, where you can build your own portfolio that future employers will be impressed to look over, even those in the Premier League.
Social media lead involves being in charge of the day-to-day comms plan, which details what goes out on each social media platform each day.
Every morning I will wake up and check to see what we have going out on the plan for that day, then adapt as necessary.
I’d then head down to a training session which is typically at 11am and gather content using my phone from that, before feeding out content from our video and photography teams from that session later in the day.
In a week leading to a game, the latter days will be about previewing Saturday’s fixture (press conferences, match previews, team news updates…).
Work experience is key, use it and enjoy it.
This is your chance to get into an extremely competitive industry and use it to build your portfolio.
Once you’re in the industry be willing to do anything that comes your way.
You may not enjoy everything but if an employer sees you’ve had experience of doing everything that won’t be a negative.
Then it’s about keeping your contacts and network where you can.
It’s not what you know…
If you want an exciting career in the entertainment industry as a skilled technician this is for you.
You could engineer and manage audio, lighting, or broadcast systems to bring events to life.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/graduate-stories/adepitan-oriyomi:
MSc Applied AI and Data Science graduate, Adepitan, shares how he's applied what he learned in his course to his job.
Job title: Engineering Manager
Employer: Sainsbury's
I hoped to enhance my knowledge and skills in artificial Intelligence in order to aid my career progression, having a software development background.
I wanted to really scale my skills with emerging technologies and continuously add value to my organisation.
My lecturers have extensive knowledge and practical experience in the field and valuable insights, real-world examples, relevant case studies and enrich the learning experience.
They are really passionate about teaching and genuinely care about their students' progress, this inspired me and motivated me to excel in the course.
I had my undergraduate studies in electrical electronics engineering from the University of Lagos.
My postgraduate studies provided a specialised and in-depth exploration within the AI and data science subject area.
The learning environment was more focused and provided me with more opportunities for close interaction with professors and fellow researchers.
My major concern was relocating to a new country, leaving behind my family, friends and comfort zone and stepping into a new world entirely different from what I was used to.
My coursemates and lecturers were really welcoming and engaging, and it was really easy to get comfortable when my course started, this really helped overcome most of my concerns.
It’s a really great opportunity to grow and an investment in your career.
A postgraduate in an institution like Solent not only helps you gain confidence but gives you challenging exercises and projects to motivate and expand your horizon.
My knowledge of unsupervised learning, data classification and model training has proven to be extremely important as I was able to apply it to my current role.
Definitely, my organisation recently integrated with an AI solution for order forecast and demand forecast across all stores in the UK, and I am able to lead the team and the effort due to my comfort in AI and model training.
Also, in the workforce a postgraduate qualification is classified as a good milestone to fast-track your career growth.
As an international student, I had to work to pay my fees while studying and preparing for new job roles, hanging out with course mates and friends.
It was really challenging because sometimes I slept really late due to work and needed to wake up early to attend classes.
Nevertheless, the university provided great study support for when I missed some points in class and the library was always available to catch up and research on grey areas not fully understood during lectures.
This exciting, challenging, practice-orientated course will develop your strategic and creative skills, equipping you for a dynamic career in or related to the rapidly expanding digital marketing sector.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/studying-at-solent/student-support/funding-advice-team/living-costs-southampton:
As well as your study costs, you'll also need enough money to support yourself while you're at university.
This could be made up of your maintenance loan (if eligible), wages, family help and student overdraft.
As a Solent student, you'll be living in one of the most affordable cities in the south.
However, it is difficult to estimate an individual's living costs as we all have different lifestyle requirements and spending habits but here, we've noted the main things to consider when looking at budgeting and general living costs in Southampton.
Bear in mind you might need some money for upfront costs before your maintenance loan comes through.
For example, if you're in halls or rented accommodation, you'll need to pay a deposit to secure your room and may need to pay a month's rent in advance.
Make sure you've got enough cash to see you through your first few weeks of university.
International students must note that these estimates do not include your tuition fees and the costs of trips to and from your home country.
Also bear in mind that your tuition fees are subject to increase year on year, and you should make provision for any rise in costs.
To be able to create an accurate budget, you need to be aware of all the costs you will incur over a year.
Utilities are included in halls fees but are likely to be separate if you are in private rented accommodation, so make sure all bills are handled fairly and are paid on time.
Also, don't forget to budget for Christmas and birthdays and one-off events that happen throughout the year.
We understand that the rising cost of living is affecting many students, making it even more important to manage your finances carefully.
To help you stay in control of your expenses, we have created a budget plan that outlines typical costs and offers practical tips for saving money.
This resource is designed to support you in planning ahead and making informed financial decisions during your studies.
Download the budget plan
In the table below, we have given you a general guide with an estimate of average costs for accommodation in university halls and living expenses for a single student over a 40 week* period.
Remember, these figures can vary greatly depending on your own circumstances and you should therefore budget accordingly.
For up-to-date information about Solent's student residences, visit our accommodation pages .
You can also find out more about living in Southampton.
For useful budgeting and financial information, have a look at the Money Saving Expert .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/enterprises/reso:
Our creative students and graduates can use the store as a platform to sell their creations in the campus store or online, gain work experience, or take up mentoring opportunities to help boost their skills and experience.
The initiative derives from the University’s work-based learning modules, providing students with the experience of applying for a placement or job, being interviewed, and ultimately working in roles such as merchandising, social media, marketing, and product photography.
Students also get the experience of working as a team on pop-up and community events.
Re:So is located in The Spark building, at Solent University’s East Park Terrace campus.
We're open Monday to Friday, 10.30am to 4.30pm - come in and see us!
Louna Crebouw-Potez is a second-year BA (Hons) Illustration student.
This design is a self portrait she created from a first-year module and can be customised into any product.
We are proud to be partnering with the John Hansard gallery shop and the D@rt Centre in Hedge End, both of whom will be selling products from the Re:So store and online store very soon!
Here, we share profiles from our students showing real roles they've undertaken to help their development.
These full-time roles allow the graduate interns to learn how to run all aspects of the business and bring their own specialisms or interests to the role.
The graduate role is a varied one, one day you’re merchandising the store and the next you’re running a stall at an event.
Re:So has taught me to think on my feet, have confidence in myself and my capabilities, and to work effectively as an individual or as a leader of a small team.
I have been able to use existing skills like graphic design, editing, and social media marketing, and develop them in my role, as well as share this knowledge with other students.
It’s a very rewarding job - seeing the variety of creatives all trying to make a name for themselves and their first step being Re:So.
Shyanne Searley
Visual Communication
I have gained new skills in marketing since starting my internship at Solent University, such as managing and organising the Re:So Etsy shop.
I have also learned how to manage a shop and to work with and train new staff effectively and fairly.
I have found I am good at mentoring new staff and working within a close team.
Rosie Pearson
Re:So’s visual merchandiser enhances the presentation of the store and the products with seasonally themed, on-trend props and displays.
This hands-on role involves planning, researching, making, and installing eye catching displays.
During my time at Re:So I've not only been able to use my current skills as a graphic designer to plan and merchandise the store, but also broaden my skills as a designer by working on window displays, murals and prop design.
This role has allowed me to prove myself as a creative and grow in ways I had never expected I could, giving me the perfect stepping stone once I graduate.
Poppy Wilson-Smith
Graphic Design
This role involves the day to day running of the store, so every day is different.
You will learn what is involved in running a small business and the breadth of skills required, including setting up the store for opening, merchandising new and existing product ranges, and working at events and pop-ups.
While working at Re:So, my role not only empowered me as a student but also provided a hands-on platform for the development of essential skills within the industry.
Despite initially feeling disoriented in Southampton, as I am not originally from here, my engagement at Re:So's store location, various pop-up stores, open days, and Westquay events has played a pivotal role in fostering a sense of connection with the community, the University, and my peers.
I feel I grew so much while working at Re:So through my active participation, networking, and even the opportunities to personally sell my own work.
Sophie Robertson
Fashion Design
All sales are logged weekly on spreadsheets by the income and supplier manager.
They are then sent to the University’s income team who arrange monthly payments to the store’s suppliers.
Month-on-month figures are then recorded for the senior lecturer to review.
My role at Re:So has allowed me to learn about the key aspects of a finance-based job within an organisation.
It has also allowed me to develop a wide variety of skills, ranging from the use of Excel, to communicating with suppliers.
I have gained a higher level of confidence when taking on important responsibilities as I have many important tasks to carry out, but I know I am supported by my team.
This role has given me the unique opportunity to experience this responsibility before a graduate role which is something I would have been unable to experience elsewhere.
Lily Wood
Re:So sells products in the the campus-based store, at Southampton City Art Gallery's shop, and online through Etsy and Teemill.
Etsy and Teemill products from academically-linked teaching, using Re:So as the client for the outcomes the students produce.
We sell a selection of ranges, including art prints, fashion accessories, home and lifestyle products, and greetings cards.
We partner with Teemill to print-to-order and ship our customisable clothing and other items to you.
Did you know all our Re:So tees and jumpers are designed to be sent back to Teemill when they are worn out?
And the clever people at Teemill make new products out of these old ones!
This is a contribution to the circular economy.
Click the link below to visit the online store to choose your design and have it printed on any items you like.
Print-to-order products with illustrations by Ana Carolina Placido Sobreira
Available on Teemill
Continuous line art prints and home accessories by Sisrcibbles
Available in store
If you're a current Solent student or graduate and wish to sell your art or products through Re:So, contact us with a brief outline of what you would like to sell.
Any products we sell are sold on a commission basis.
We offer a variety of work-based learning roles for level 5 and 6 students who need to secure and complete a placement as part of their degree.
Alternatively, if you have a proposal for a project you would like us to consider, contact us with an outline of your idea in the first instance.
Graduate intern opportunities are advertised around May/June on the main Solent jobs page and are open to new or recent graduates of the University.
There will be two available for 2024.
We also sometimes have some part-time roles available which are advertised through Campus Jobs.
Keep up to date with Re:So news, including new products, events, and pop-ups.
Please contact lesley.taylor@solent.ac.uk about any of these opportunities.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/enterprises/sports-science:
Are you an athlete looking to build a training plan?
Or are you recovering from a sports-related injury?
Solent's sports science laboratory can provide you with the equipment, support and advice to build effective training or injury rehabilitation programmes.
The laboratory has been used by professional sports teams, such as Southampton FC, Swindon Town FC, and Hampshire Cricket.
High-level endurance athletes, such as elite runners, cyclists and triathletes have also made use of our facilities, which are also available to the public for hire.
Solent's sports science laboratory provides industry-standard equipment and expert advice for athletes of all abilities and levels - whether you're starting out and want to assess your athletic abilities, you're returning to training after a break, or you want to improve your performance.
Using the equipment in the lab, our team of experts will help you get the most out of your time by giving you a full assessment.
The anti-gravity treadmill is designed to help with sports injuries.
It uses air pressure to reduce body weight to aid rehabilitation by reducing the impact on joins and muscles.
The lactate threshold test sets suitable training zones based on lactate inflection points.
The VO2max test calculates your maximum aerobic capacity and can also set training zones based on heart rate, velocity and workload.
There is also an option to combine the lactate threshold and the VO2max tests.
Any of these tests will contribute to maximising your athletic performance.
Metabolic efficiency testing is designed to give the athlete two key values:
The body composition BOD POD provides accurate measurements including body fat percentage and resting metabolic rate, giving you the right information to inform your diet and training programme.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/enterprises/solent-productions:
Solent Productions is Solent University's award-winning media centre producing content at live events, music festivals, for the BBC, and many corporate and charitable clients.
See our showreel, below, to see some examples of this brilliant work.
Solent University specialises in real-world learning for students.
Through Solent Productions, students and staff work together at a professional level to create quality content.
Our resources and techniques include live streaming, 4K cameras, outside broadcasting, Avid editing, colour correction, drones, motion graphics, and animation.
Do get in touch for a competitive quote and to discuss what we can make for you.
To find out more, contact: research.innovation@solent.ac.uk .
Watch highlights from our work, including coverage of Glastonbury Festival, fashion shows, and sporting events, for clients such as the BBC, Hampshire Cricket, Newbury Racecourse, and Camp Bestival.
Take a look at our portfolio to find out more about our services and how we can help you.
We can help you grow your business by using the latest technology.
Our students gain valuable skills and real-world experience in media production and web broadcasting.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/studying-at-solent/student-support/care-leavers:
We welcome students from all backgrounds and are committed to supporting students who have been in local authority care.
We are members of the National Network for the Education of Care Leavers (NNECL) which is a charity dedicated to transforming the educational outcomes of young people with experience of being in care.
If you are a young person in care and would like to know what support we offer throughout your degree, please get in touch .
You can even come to have a look around and meet other care leavers who are already studying towards their degree.
Our care leavers support package includes:
For more information about the care leavers bursary and how to apply for it, please visit our bursaries page .
We work in partnership with local councils, schools, colleges and other universities regionally through the 'We Care' Partnership and have dedicated members of staff who will arrange visits and give talks to groups.
If you are a local authority employee, foster parent or personal adviser, we can work with you to raise aspirations, organise taster days and promote the support on offer here at Solent.
We can also organise tours of the University campus.
Email: student.funding@solent.ac.uk Telephone: 023 8201 5200 Visit: Student Hub (TS114)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/student-support/disability-support:
Southampton Solent University's Disability Advice Team provides disability and neurodiversity advice for current students and prospective students (applicants).
You're encouraged to share your diagnosis and support needs with the Disability Advice Team.
This is so we can advise about your next steps and the support available to you at the University.
Email the completed disability advice consent form and Solent summary of support needs to disability@solent.ac.uk .
The team will then email your next steps.
Download the disability advice consent form
Download the Solent summary of support needs form
Students with a disability may be eligible for additional funding.
This funding is to help with any additional costs that may occur as a result of disability.
To find out more, visit our bursary page or our Solent Online Learning page .
Coming to university is an exciting opportunity but it's important you have support in place if required, as students are otherwise expected to be independent in their daily living and studies.
Consider if you need support in these areas as Solent University is not able to provide this support:
Contact your GP, home social care, or NHS team to explore setting up any of this support for university.
This support needs to be in place before you start your studies.
If you feel you would benefit from an Occupational Health assessment to support you to continue to access your course, please contact us and we will arrange a meeting with you and your course team to discuss further, including reviewing your university support plan and academic support.
If required, course teams process referrals to an appropriate occupational health provider.
Accommodation: If you wish to discuss your accommodation needs while at university, please contact the Accommodation Team at accommodation@solent.ac.uk .
They will be happy to offer you guidance and advice.
Assistance dogs: Anyone with an assistance dog must follow Solent University's policy before arranging to bring a dog into University venues.
Southampton Shopmobility provides wheelchairs and scooters to people with mobility difficulties, enabling them to access the city centre independently.
Manual wheelchairs, electric wheelchairs, and electric scooters are available to hire Monday to Saturday between the hours of 9.15am and 4.45pm.
AccessAble is a national scheme that provides access guides for venues, including in Southampton.
Photos, maps, descriptions, and routes are available and can support you to plan your visit.
If you have any questions about support at university, take a look at the Disability Advice Team's pages on Solent Online Learning, or email disability@solent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/life-in-southampton/discover-southampton:
The perfect home away from home, Southampton has everything you need to thrive as a student.
Deciding where to live and study doesn’t come easy.
You want somewhere you can put down roots while you’re at university; a place that feels like home.
Our warm, welcoming city offers exactly that, along with the freedom to explore and grow in a way that suits you.
There’s room to breathe here, and you’ll never be far from another student.
Our tree-lined campus is right in the heart of the city, so everything Southampton can offer is literally on your doorstep.
With opportunities around every corner, and easy access to other places that might take your fancy for a day trip or getaway.
As the biggest city on the south coast, we’re a thriving hub for students – our top-10 place in the 2023 StudentCrowd Best Student Cities rankings says it all.
We’re a perfect fusion of large but local, coastal but affordable, within easy reach of busy cities like London and Brighton - but far away enough to keep that cosy, friendly vibe.
Here, you’ll find friends, a city that provides a support network, and a sense of community.
We’re warm and diverse; a city that is rightly proud of its student community.
Whatever you’re looking for in your second home, you'll find it here.
Southampton is a super accessible city, making it quick and easy to get around - perfect if you like to explore.
Southampton Airport offers numerous domestic and international flights, we have excellent road connections via the M3 and M27 motorways, and frequent rail services run from Southampton Central Station to major destinations.
However you prefer to travel, you'll find commuting to campus or travelling home during holidays a breeze.
Southampton has a full calendar of events to enjoy all year round.
The best part?
Most of them are free.
We’ve collated some of the exciting events you can expect to have on your doorstep when you live in the city.
Night out or day trip?
Whatever your vibe, Southampton has you covered.
Explore our quick guide to some of the best ways to spend your free time.
Big-name brands?
Unique boutiques?
Southampton’s your town for retail therapy.
Whatever you’re looking for, from high-street classics to indie gems, there’s plenty to explore.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/life-in-southampton/diverse-city:
Southampton is a vibrant city, renowned for its richly diverse blend of cultures and its welcoming atmosphere.
It’s home to a variety of cultural institutions, including museums, theatres, and galleries that showcase a broad spectrum of artistic practices.
And the city universities bring in students from cultures all around the globe, broadening Southampton’s multicultural environment even further.
Out of this diverse blend of cultures comes a dizzying array of international cultural festivals, cuisine and community events, such as the annual Mela Festival to promote Asian arts and culture, Southampton’s Pride events to celebrate LGBTQ+ diversity, and the Music in the City programme which showcases diverse talents and genres at unforgettable venues across the city.
This inclusive and varied cultural scene makes Southampton a truly unique and exciting place to live and study.
Southampton is a vibrant and inclusive city where the LGBTQ+ community thrives.
Here, diversity is celebrated, and everyone is embraced for who they are.
You'll find Southampton to be a place where love and individuality are not just accepted but encouraged.
Join us in a city that not only values diversity but thrives on it, making every visitor and resident feel at home.
However you've travelled here, wherever you’re from, your new home of Southampton may not be as different as you think.
Check out our helpful guide to settling in, with essential information about the international shops and services available.
International Foods Specialising in international foods.
Location: Portswood
Eddoes Direct Afro-Caribbean grocery store stocking essentials and favourites from brands such as Tropical Sun, Raja, and Dunn's River.
Location: Shirley
Punjabi Takeaway Indian snack foods - can be bought in bulk.
Location: St Mary's
Beauty by Aja Ndeye Location: City Centre
Judith's African Caribbean Hair Design Specialising in Afro Caribbean hair design and braids.
Urban Trend Barbers Afro Caribbean and European-Asian barbers.
Location: City Centre
Mary's Hair Salon Experience in European, Afro (relaxed or natural), mixed race, and synthetic hair.
Fabulous Hair Southampton Hair and beauty product store, specialising in a large range of human/synthetic hair extensions, wigs, ponytails, Afro Caribbean braiding, weave, and cosmetics.
Affricardo Barber Shop Barbers specialising in Afro Caribbean hair.
Tcutz Hair Unisex salon specialising in Afro Caribbean hair.
Location: Woolston
Afro City Southampton Specialising in Afro Caribbean products, including human and synthetic hair extension, clip-ons, weaves, plait-in-hair and lace, and human hair wigs.
Art Asia Communicating South Asian arts to the widest possible audience.
Southampton Ukrainian Community Support Group Support and events for people from Ukraine.
Friends International Christian charity offering friendship to international students.
The United Voices of African Associations - TUVAA Fostering strong links between various Africa/African affiliated groups/organisations in Hampshire.
Black Heritage Southampton A registered charity which promotes the welfare and social wellbeing of the members of the Caribbean community in Southampton.
Autism Hampshire The charity runs Serendipity community groups for autistic adults to meet in a supportive and non-judgmental setting.
Spectrum User-led organisation offering support to disabled people in lots of different ways, including advice, guidance, advocacy, and social.
Southampton Sight Local charity offering support for people living with sight loss.
People of many different cultures, races and religions call Southampton home, so the city has a wide selection of places to worship.
Southampton hosts a variety of events, such as the annual Mela Festival celebrating Asian arts and culture, Southampton Boat Show’s showcase of maritime heritage, and our annual Pride parade promoting LGBTQ+ diversity – just a few examples of the city's exciting cultural landscape.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/life-in-southampton/discover-southampton/reasons-to-love-southampton:
If you’re looking for a place where you can be yourself, meet like-minded people, and have the freedom to pursue your interests, this is the city for you.
Need to hear more?
Here’s our six top reasons to love Southampton.
We’re a laid-back city that is open, friendly and thriving thanks to its diverse communities.
From big Pride celebrations to cultural festivals that are free to all, plus a celebration of street art and skateboarding, Southampton has a busy calendar of events led by our many communities.
Southampton has an abundance of must-try restaurants and cafes run by passionate people, as well as a selection of delicious street food vendors on the high street.
A huge range of cultures are represented through the city’s food scene - including Thai, Greek, Polish and Indian – while supermarkets, delis and specialist shops cater to a variety of tastes.
Musicians thrive in Southampton, thanks to an inclusive music scene and array of quirky venues.
The Joiners is a favourite among locals, with live music almost every night, and a national reputation as one of the very best small venues in the country.
The 1865, Engine Rooms and Heartbreakers all have eclectic gigs throughout the year, while Vinilo Record Store delivers all your music needs and in-store intimate gigs.
Southampton has a significant history, and museums that showcase it proudly.
At the SeaCity Museum you’ll learn about the story of the Titanic, and how it shaped the city.
At the Tudor House and Garden you’ll step back into the past in the city’s old town.
And at Solent Sky you’ll learn about the incredible legacy of the Spitfire – designed and built in Southampton.
Nearly forty thousand students call Southampton home, so you’ll never be alone.
Alongside our vast, multicultural student community you’ll find plenty of opportunities to meet new faces, and there’s always a club, group or event run by local enthusiasts.
We’re well-connected, green, and right on the water.
A stone’s throw from the New Forest, a stunning national park with more than 300 miles of heathland and forest, you’ll have plenty to do at the weekend, and the city itself is home to beautiful parks with interesting histories, including the Common and Royal Victoria Country Park.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news:
Showing 491 results that fit your criteria
Solent students enhanced their skills at the Gothia Cup in Sweden

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/videos:
Showing 8 results that fit your criteria

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/apprenticeships-information-webinar-registered-nurse-nmc-2018-mental-health:
Join us to learn more about the Registered Nurse (NMC 2018) - Mental Health apprenticeship at Solent.
Southampton Solent University is offering an informative webinar information session about our Registered Nurse (NMC 2018) - Mental Health apprenticeship, designed to help prospective learners and employers interested in upskilling their staff understand the process.
Health and medical sciences

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/undergraduate-on-campus-open-day:
This event is for students who are usually attending university for the first time and are interested in studying for an undergraduate degree.
There are course talks running throughout the day.
Future Solent students
Wed 29 October
Sat 15 November
Sat 4 October
Sat 18 October

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/careers-at-sea-on-campus-open-day-1:
This event is for those who wish to train as a deck, engineer, or electro-technical officer cadet in the Merchant Navy or on superyachts.
Maritime
Sat 27 September

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/undergraduate-open-evening:
This event is for those who are usually attending university for the first time and interested in studying for an undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/events/general-open-day-1:
Join us for our open day if you're interested in studying for an undergraduate degree, a Merchant Navy cadetship, an apprenticeship, or would like some pre-Clearing advice.
Our open days are an opportunity for you to find out more about studying at Solent.
They are packed full of activities, tours and talks - all to help you discover what life as a student at Solent University is like.
At this open day, you can find out more about (click the links for more information on what to expect for each):
Our accommodation, admissions, finance and student support teams will also be available to answer any questions you may have.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/search:
Showing 641 results that fit your criteria

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/joy-and-jubilation-graduation-at-solent:
27 August 2025
In our latest blog, Southampton Solent University's Senior Associate Academic Registrar, Sarah Bishops, discusses how the value of higher education can be found in graduation.
There is nothing quite like graduation.
The jubilation, the joy.
The shared spirit of celebration.
Every summer, and through to autumn, hundreds of thousands of students graduate as their loved ones watch on.
And behind each of these ceremonies lay an army of devoted staff working together to pull off one of the most important moments in a person’s life.
At Southampton Solent University, 2025 marks 20 years since the institution was given degree-awarding powers.
In those two decades, more than 45,000 graduates have donned a gown, and a cap, and walked across a stage in that iconic final moment of a university life.
The coming together of these many thousands of graduands is no small feat.
In fact, each year these ceremonies take place following many months of finely tuned organisation which relies on many different sets of skills to make sure everything runs smoothly.
So, perhaps, at a time when the value of a UK university education is constantly in question, one only need pull back the curtain on a graduation ceremony to find the answer.
As the news agenda continues to batter the country’s higher education system – and its people along with it – hundreds of staff collaborate to give their graduating students a day to remember.
Why?
Because, despite it all, it is this sector, and its students, that they unrelentingly show up for.
At Solent, graduation week begins 10 months before the very first graduate steps up on stage to that epic roar of applause.
It is the meticulous work of academic registrars, technical experts, florists, photographers, musicians, caterers, ushers, academics, estates and facilities, cleaners, tailors, grounds teams, and beyond which ensure each graduation at Solent goes off without a hitch.
Beyond this, it is the joint effort of a team very much behind the scenes who ensure every final grade for graduating students is processed and released on time.
It is in the build-up to graduation, and during, that the care which goes into ensuring every student gets the send-off they deserve is on full display.
This isn’t merely a job, it is a vocation.
Each and every member of staff is right there in the thick of it, donning their own gowns and bracing themselves against the unpredictable weather of a British summertime, because they believe in the value of higher education.
Together, they proudly watch as graduates cross the stage and make their way towards limitless professional lives with a barely contained joy at the impact they will have beyond university.
Universities are special for many reasons.
At its simplest, they are special because of the way staff and students root so solidly for their own community.
At Solent, students volunteer to be part of graduation.
They help to direct families to their seats, they sing before ceremonies begin, they show graduates where to get their gowns.
They do this work of their own volition; because they simply want to help make a fellow student’s day completely perfect.
We all show up in this way because we believe in the opportunities that universities open up for students and graduates.
And because, together, we want everyone else to know it, and to get behind it.
Opinion

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/graduate-secures-premier-league-position:
22 August 2025
Henry Moon, a BSc (Hons) Football Studies alumni who graduated in July 2024 from Southampton Solent University, has secured a Premier League position.
As an Academy Performance Analyst intern at Crystal Palace Football Club, Henry is working with the Under 14s team and supports the Head of Academy with analysing the Under 21s.
The young professional credits his time at Solent, which helped lead to this prominent early-career position.
"Through contacts, experience and knowledge developed from my course I managed to get in contact with people in the academy," Henry says.
"I was then asked to come in three times a week for a season to develop my knowledge further, and this then led to me joining them as an intern."
Few universities offer degrees in football, with Solent - which is nearby to the iconic St Mary's Stadium in Southampton - proudly leading the way in this area.
79% of graduates enter high-skilled employment or further study within 15 months of graduating*, showcasing the success of this course.
Henry says:
"Solent was key for me to develop my skills and knowledge around performance and analysis.
It was good being very hands on and learning about all the software I needed to be able to use in order to join Crystal Palace.
I was also able to meet some amazing people wanting to do similar things to me, using contacts to then branch out."
Southampton Solent University prides itself on connecting students to industry, and Henry had many opportunities to hear directly from professionals in sport and, specifically, football.
During his course, Henry had the opportunity to hear from Southampton Football Club's new manager, Will Still, and gained insights from guest speakers with a range of experiences in sport.
Course Leader Football, Kevin Braybrook, says: "The football studies course at Southampton Solent University has built a strong reputation for its practice-led approach and focus on real-world outcomes.
We're thrilled that Henry has secured a full-time role with Crystal Palace Football Club.
His journey is made even more special by his lifelong passion for the club, making this achievement especially rewarding."
*Data captured by HESA 2023.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/26-mile-walk-shines-a-light-on-river-itchen:
20 August 2025
Roxanne Bennett, an emerging talent in photography at Southampton Solent University, has shone a spotlight on pollution in the River Itchen in her impressive Final Major Project (FMP).
A graduating BA (Hons) Photography student, Roxanne's FMP saw her walk all 26 miles of the River Itchen.
Entitled Icene and taking inspiration from award-winning photographer, Yan Wang Preston's Mother River, Roxanne's FMP highlights the way Southampton's well-known river is becoming polluted.
Through black and white film photography, Roxanne showcases the River Itchen in its urban setting, asking viewers to consider the impact of its surroundings while celebrating its unusual beauty.
On the experience of walking the length of the river, Roxanne says:
"A large amount of these walks along the river, and trips back to photograph it, I was completely alone.
I felt like I was able to really develop a connection with both the landscape and my camera, and this connection and understanding helped shape the way I composed my photographs."
Roxanne grew up in Watford, before moving to Southampton to attend Solent University.
Studying photography at university has been instrumental for her practice:
"It's been an amazing experience and helped me gain technical skills, industry experience and great connections.
Solent has been a huge help in developing as a photographer, especially within my technical skills and understanding.
"Learning to understand how each element of the camera works together to create the photograph has been incredibly helpful in me making high quality images."
In 2020, The Rivers Trust released a report which showed that no river in England or Wales was classed as being in good overall health.
For Roxanne, her inspiration for this project was clear:
"Pollution is such a growing issue and it's only getting worse.
Every river in Britain is now polluted and it means that younger generations will suffer if something isn't done about it soon."
Roxanne's black and white photographs were taken with a 5x4 film camera over a period of 12 weeks.
Her hope is that the project showcases the impact humans are having on the river, while at the same time capturing its essence across the 26-mile stretch.
On the high quality of work by graduating students at Solent, Course Leader Photography, Nina Sverdvik says:
"Every year I ask myself the same question: how do our students, year after year, make new and incredible photographs that reflect our time?
Having exclusive access to a wide range of equipment and experts in the field of photography, they are encouraged to use their individual voices to explore the world as they see it and to be brave, curious, and creative in their approaches.
As a result, they work they produce is unapologetic, engaging and unique; just as they are."
Since graduating, Roxanne has been shortlisted for the CVAN Platform Graduate Award 2025, which celebrates emerging talent in art and photography in the south of England.
Art and design

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/how-emerging-creative-talent-is-boosting-local-business:
18 August 2025
As Solent Creatives nears its 15-year mark, we dive into its impact both on and off campus.
Universities are a melting pot of (often untapped) skills and resources.
From the latest facilities favoured by industry, to a whole community of learners at the forefront of today's trends, it's at institutions like Southampton Solent University where bold ideas thrive.
But, how do those ideas make a difference to local business?
Meet Solent Creatives .
For over a decade, the creative agency - an on-campus enterprise that emphasises Solent University's practice-led approach - has been connecting students with businesses both in Hampshire and beyond, to help them tell their story and reach new audiences.
In this way, the agency plays a unique role in the region's economic eco-system.
The purpose of the agency is two-fold.
One, it gives students unique opportunities among industry, where they can network with professionals and build their practical skills.
Two, it enables businesses of all shapes and sizes - but particularly those of small and medium size - to tap into the vision and talent of students to deliver a range of creative services that complement their offer as a business.
From videography and branding to photography and design, Solent Creatives was built to serve the needs of both students and professionals, by connecting them to each other and delivering on a brief.
It's a win-win situation, and one that has significant impact.
Nearing its 15-year milestone, Solent Creatives unveiled a new brand of its own in February 2024.
Since then, they have connected almost 50 students across 15 different courses with more than 40 clients.
From BA (Hons) Graphic Design to CGI and Visual Effects , students pursuing creative fields are turning what they learn on campus into high-quality services for a broad range of businesses.
Solent Creatives is also home to the University's Start-Up Fund ; a scheme which offers funding to students with business ideas.
Since November 2023, more than 20 students have received over £80,000 in funding, enabling them to turn a seed of an idea into a business reality.
The fund supports a variety of businesses - from beach-side saunas and home styling to photography and sports therapy - and ensures local graduates have the means to pursue their goals while enhancing the region's reputation as a hub for entrepreneurs.
Enterprises like Solent Creatives are just one example of how universities right here in the south - and all across the UK - contribute to the region they call home.
Students gain transferable, sought after work experience - not to mention paid employment - while businesses of all kinds receive a bespoke service that builds their reputation and attracts more custom.
With support from Solent's Start-Up Fund, graduates go on to build their very own business, filling a gap in the market and leading to the creation of jobs.
As Solent Creatives nears its 15-year mark, its doors remain wide open.
Find out more about the agency, which is open to hearing from businesses, here .
Student experience

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/just-do-it-clearing-graduate-shares-success:
11 August 2025
Millie Payne, a BA (Hons) Sports Journalism graduate who applied to Southampton Solent University through Clearing and is now thriving as a broadcaster and producer, credits the alternative route to higher education.
Now a successful freelance journalist who works for the BBC, Millie never planned to go to university.
"I'd previously applied for an apprenticeship, and I was broken when I didn't get it," she says.
"I had nothing else lined up, so I felt quite lost with what I was going to do with my life." Having previously looked into Solent University's sports journalism course, Millie was drawn to the practice-led nature of it.
Because Millie chose to apply to Solent past the UCAS deadline, she had to go through Clearing - an alternative and accessible pathway to university for thousands of students each year.
"I eventually decided that I should just take the leap and go to university, and at that point Clearing was my only option.
But it turned out to be one of the best decisions I ever made."
Millie lived at home while studying at Solent - a decision which didn't detract from her time at university.
She credits the working industry professionals who teach on sports journalism, the facilities and equipment: "It was a very easy and hands-on learning experience."
A freelance reporter and producer, Millie works on the sports desk at BBC South and leads on the coverage of women's football in the region.
Her time at Solent prepared her for opportunities like these:
"I think the emphasis on the practical aspects of my course, and the fact that it's BJTC (Broadcast Journalism Training Council) accredited really stands out to any potential employers.
The fact that we already know how to operate in a professional newsroom environment, use industry equipment, and have been taught by industry pros really stands you in good stead."
Millie's Clearing experience was so simple and smooth, that the details of it are no longer at the forefront of her university journey.
And if someone is thinking of applying to Solent through this route?
"Just do it," she says.
"It turned out to be the best few years of my life.
So if you're thinking about it, I'd just bite the bullet!"

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/student-athletes-at-solent-to-represent-great-britain:
18 June 2025
Two rising athletes at Southampton Solent University, Xavier Hinves and Tom Holland, have been chosen to compete in the upcoming Canoe Sprint European and World Championships, representing Great Britain (GB).
Having benefitted from Solent's Sport Excellence Programme (SEP) , which sits in the top third of UK universities offering support for students with sporting ambition, Xavier and Tom are steadily making a name for themselves in canoeing.
The early-career athletes have been selected to compete in both the Under 23 European and World Championships as part of GB's canoe sprint teams.
The pair will form part of the K4 men's 500m team alongside Dylan O'Connor and Benji Cabrera.
Tom will also compete in the K1 500m race.
Both athletes are studying BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science at Solent, with Xavier graduating alongside his peers on Friday 11 July.
The University's SEP students receive a bespoke programme of support, from a bursary and access to industry-standard facilities, to advice and guidance on becoming a dual career athlete.
On representing Great Britain, and how Solent has supported him on this journey, Xavier says:
"Being selected is a reflection of the hard work and dedication I've put in this year.
Solent has played a huge role in my development - providing great facilities, amazing financial support and a supportive environment which has helped to push me to achieve my goals."
The championships are taking place in Romania and Portugal in July, giving Tom and Xavier an opportunity to showcase their skills on an international stage.
Solent's Athlete Support Officer and gold-medal winning gymnast, Kelly Simm says:
"We're incredibly proud to see both Tom and Xav selected to represent Great Britain at this summer's U23 European and World Championships.
They both consistently demonstrate a very high level of dedication and work ethic towards their sport and academics, so it's fantastic to see their hard work recognised with these selections.
We wish them both the very best for the upcoming championships in July and for future selections."
Image credit: A.
Edmonds
Success

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/solent-graduate-makes-waves-in-southampton-community:
3 December 2024 • by Solent press team
Nominated as one of just 20 No Room for Racism Icon’s nationally, Shiraz Zawahir is inspiring communities through his coaching at Southampton Football Club’s charity, Saints Foundation.
Shiraz Zawahir, a Southampton Solent University graduate who studied both as an undergraduate and master's student at the institution, has been recognised for his inspiring work with communities through Saints Foundation.
Nominated as one of just 20 No Room for Racism Icon’s nationally – a Premier League initiative aimed at increasing diversity in football and ending discrimination in the sport – Shiraz is making waves as a coach at Southampton Football Club’s charity, Saints Foundation.
Growing up with a passion for sports, Shiraz moved from Sri Lanka to Southampton to study Bsc (Hons) Football Studies followed by an MA in Sport Management.
It was during this time that Shiraz first connected with Saints Foundation, volunteering through his course and connecting with the city’s communities through coaching programmes which empower young people and adults to take charge of their wellbeing through football.
Now, after a successful stint at Chelsea F.C., Shiraz is fuelling his passion for coaching, helping residents to thrive through accessible opportunities in sport.
As a coach on Saints Foundation’s SO14 Active , Shiraz works with people aged 16+ in St Mary’s to empower them to lead healthy, active lives.
Saints Foundations’ SO14 Active Coordinator, Dave Warnes, says:
“Shiraz is an integral part of SO14 Active, and Saints Foundation.
He has such a talent not only for coaching, but creating a warm and inviting environment, as well as engaging and building great relationships with such a diverse set of participants.”
Students at Solent have been volunteering at Saints Foundation for ten years, with more than 150 learners making a difference in the lives of Southampton’s residents.
A civic university right in the heart of the city, Solent has supported students with the delivery of more than 1,000 hours of volunteering since 2014.
Shiraz says:
“Working in my current role provides me with a very fulfilling feeling, and it’s because I know I’m making a meaningful difference in people’s lives.
It brings me immense happiness to be able to listen to individuals and communities, understand the struggles they face, and work towards providing solutions to their challenges.
“Knowing that I’m helping people feel valued, especially those who often feel overlooked or ignored, is deeply rewarding.
Creating spaces where voices are heard and fostering a sense of belonging and support within the community is what drives me every day.”
Shiraz’s success story is just one of many to come out of Southampton Solent University.
The impact of graduates is wide-reaching, with recent data analysis by Universities UK (UUK) showing a clear trend – that regions with more graduates are more productive, driving economic growth.
While the data is clear – graduates positively contribute to regional economies – it is also important to acknowledge the deep impact of civic pride and responsibility universities like Solent instill in its students to benefit communities.
Solent’s Course Leader Football, Kevin Braybrook, says:
“We are always proud of the progression made by Football Studies students when they leave our course and pursue a career in industry, but those that can connect their passion with impact are really applying the key philosophy of our course.
“Shiraz embodies someone that has utilised the approach we adopt at Solent University, whereby the learning and teaching framework supports students in developing the tools required to differentiate themselves to enter the football sector.
Our course strives to inspire our students, so we are so pleased that Shiraz's achievements can continue that inspiration and really demonstrate the skills and behaviours required for all students at Solent.”
From volunteering as a student to coaching as a professional, Shiraz’s impact has been cemented with his recent nomination as a No Room for Racism Icon, which highlights the contribution of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic people in football.
“Whether it’s on or off the pitch, my goal is to inspire and empower others to reach their full potential.”
Find out more about football courses at Solent via www.solent.ac.uk/subjects/football .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/zara-tangi-making-waves-on-the-world-stage:
27 November 2024
Southampton Solent University (Solent) student, Zara Tangi, has been selected by the Society of Sports Therapists as the recipient of their World Transplant Games Travelling Scholarship Award.
As the recipient of the Scholarship Award, Zara will join the GB Transplant Sport Therapy team for the duration of the World Transplant Games 2025 in Dresden, Germany.
This opportunity will provide a unique opportunity for Zara who is in her second year of studies at Solent, to gain an advanced understanding of how Sports Therapy can be applied to individuals who have donated or who are recipients of organ and bone marrow transplants.
Zara’s application for the scholarship was supported by staff at Solent, who provided guidance on the initial video applications and the overall interview process.
She then faced tough competition with applications open to all UK based students studying courses accredited by the Society of Sports Therapists.
Ultimately, Zara’s passion, professionalism and research paid off and she’ll be the sole student recipient of the Scholarship Award travelling to Dresden for the games next August (17-24).
Speaking about the opportunity, Zara said:
“One of the reasons that I chose to study Sports Therapy is because there is such a wide range of career paths you can choose to pursue.
When I began my studies at Solent, I was so excited to explore these paths further and I promised myself I would throw myself at any opportunity that came my way.
“I can’t wait to get to Germany to build on my studies and the work I am already doing with sports teams near my family home.”
Dr Lynsey Northeast, Course Lead for Sports and Exercise Therapy, said:
“Zara is a fantastic example of the hard work that our students put in, both with their studies and when pursuing opportunities to gain workplace experience.
“We are fully committed to helping our students gain that experience, and our course provides all the essential professional skills and musculoskeletal expertise for them to succeed on placements and once they have graduated.”
Zara isn’t the only Sport and Exercise Therapy student to be gaining valuable experience within Transplant Sport.
Aaron Grimes, Amy Robinson and James Curry have all been offered the opportunity to play a part at the British Transplant Games next Summer, with Zara also joining them.
These students are just the latest success stories from the course, with previous graduates going on to work at the highest level of professional sports, private practice and the NHS.
Part of the reason for Solent’s success in this area is the University’s professional sport and exercise science facilities, including fully equipped physiology, psychology, and biomechanics labs, health and exercise gyms, and sport and exercise therapy teaching spaces.
Students can also practice their skills in our state-of-the-art teaching rooms and our student-led therapy clinic.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/like-and-subscribe-how-videogame-streaming-has-turned-entertainment-on-its-head:
17 February 2025
Solent's Course Leader for Computer Games Programming and Design, Dr Nick Hampton, is exploring the monumental rise in the popularity of videogame streaming in our latest opinion piece.
In 2010, Felix Kjellberg, a 20-year-old Swedish man with nothing more than a PC and a webcam at his fingertips, filmed himself playing the cult horror game, Amnesia.
Whilst playing, Felix (aka PewDiePie) produced an endless parade of vocal screams, yells and swears, constantly leaping out of his chair, gurning at the camera and flailing his arms around with exaggerated, manic energy.
How do we know this?
Because Felix uploaded the footage to the still fledging YouTube platform as a series of short videos containing nothing more than his face, his voice and footage of the game being played.
The results were so ridiculous (and novel) that Felix gained notoriety in gaming circles, but his reach quickly extended far beyond a niche audience.
Within a few years, Felix’s subscriber count pushed into the millions and every video he uploaded was voraciously consumed by a huge audience evidently hungry for this new form for entertainment: personality-driven playthroughs of videogames, replete with stream-of-consciousness commentary and OTT reactions.
Felix had seemingly created a new form of entertainment: videogame streaming.
Some 15 years later, streams of videogame playthroughs, via online platforms such as YouTube or Twitch, have achieved almost total ubiquity as a form of entertainment amongst children, teens and many adults.
Videogame streaming is a massive industry, creating obscene amounts of wealth for those lucky enough to become successful, and generating hundreds of thousands of hours of video footage of games being played.
Some streamers are now more popular, more well known and more financially successful than most film actors or TV personalities could ever dream of.
So what is it about this form of entertainment that makes it so popular?
Why do so many people want to watch other people play games?
Why has videogame streaming turned our entire understanding of entertainment on its head and made celebrities of people who sit alone in their bedrooms playing a game?
For some, watching another person play a game is simply a way of experiencing a new game they are otherwise unable to play i.e.
age ratings, localisation issues or not enough money to buy it for themselves.
For others, there is pleasure to be found in watching someone else experience a game they’ve already completed; comparing playthroughs; the different emotional reactions another person has to the story beats; or the way they approach different set piece moments.
Or maybe a person lacks the skills to play a game at its highest level but still has a huge appreciation for those with the capabilities to fully explore a game’s mechanics and systems.
Then, like me, someone may simply want to see what a game looks like before parting with their hard-earned money.
However, there is one more reason that people enjoy watching other people play games: a genuine sense of connection and comradery with that videogame streamer.
Having spoken to numerous young adults and teens, one recurring reason for watching videogame playthroughs is the streamer themselves: their personality, humour and delivery.
People become fans of specific streamers and their content.
They feel a kinship with the streamer and find it comforting to have these streamers in their lives.
And, of course, streamers are aware of this and will carefully curate a personality, commentary and editing style that appeals to, and grows, their audience.
The viewer benefits from this relationship through regular video content produced by someone that almost feels like a friend or a comfortable presence in their lives; a warm comfort blanket to keep them cosy and snug when the world just gets too much.
But this also opens viewers to exploitation from streamers and content creators.
Maybe the streamer accepts financial sponsorship from a less than reputable business or pushes a dubious product or service onto their viewers.
Your favourite, friendly streamer might promote iffy gambling sites or dodgy crypto currencies.
If these promotions were pitched and marketed to an appropriate audience, then maybe it could be considered an acceptable practice (emphasis on maybe) but all too often the audience will be below gambling age and susceptible to their favourite streamer’s recommendations.
Promotions and gambling are often not clearly identified or flagged within the video or video description.
It could be argued that these practices are morally bankrupt, taking advantage of a trusting, passionate and potentially vulnerable audience, many of whom might be young children.
This was a particularly problematic issue a few years ago during the sudden and rapid development of this form of content; a new and digital wild west of entertainment in an industry without the degree of oversight and regulation other forms of entertainment and media are subjected to.
Things are improving.
The audience is now savvier to dubious content and often steamers will get called out for dodgy promotions and iffy advertising.
There is also more oversight from the platforms that host the video content.
Twitch has separate channels for gambling related content; YouTube has more guidelines to help flag the nature of a video’s content; and platform holders seem more prepared to pull down videos, or de-monetise those that don’t abide by these guidelines.
However, to make these concerns the focus of this piece does do a disservice to the many, many streamers out there simply trying to create entertainment for people and turn their passion into something that can financially support and sustain them.
This form of entertainment clearly has value for many people, especially those that find a sense of friendship, community and comfort with the streamer and their content.
So, what is the future of videogame playthroughs and streamers?
Well, the thirst for this form of entertainment shows no abating and, if anything, its popularity is only going to increase, at least in the short term, as the gaming industry continues to grow and develop as a global form of entertainment and art.
In the longer term, over-regulation of content by YouTube and Twitch might see streamers jump to new, alternative platforms to host their video content, and claims of copyright infringement from developers and publishers (accompanied with cease and desist letters) would potentially limit the kind of content videogame streamers could produce.
Ultimately, we may find in a generation or two that a new craze has swept the internet and streaming videogame playthroughs is considered outdated and something only ‘old people’ do.
But for now, we have an industry that forms a significant part of many people’s lives, for better and for worse.
And while I am often perplexed by videogame streamers and how they are lauded and celebrated for simply playing a videogame, I cannot deny that for many watching a streamer playthrough a videogame on YouTube or Twitch is a vital and important form of companionship and community whilst also being an enjoyable, innocent way to spend an hour or two.
So, what do you think?
Is videogame streaming an important part of your life?
Do you have favourite streamers, or favourite games you like to watch?
And where do you believe the future of videogame streaming is headed?
I would love to know.
Meanwhile, I’m off to check out a no commentary playthrough of a game I’ve had my eye on for a while; I want to see if it’s something worth spending my money on!
- Dr Nick Hampton
Find out more about BSc (Hons) Computer Games Programming and Design here .
Head over to YouTube to hear Nick talk video games on Solent's ...Explained!
podcast.
Digital art, animation, games and VFX
Matthew Stewart, Warsash Maritime School's Deputy Director, explores how technology is driving sustainability in the marine industry.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/empowering-the-next-generation-to-do-both-how-universities-help-student-athletes-succeed-in-dual-careers:
21 November 2024
Kelly Simm, a four-time Commonwealth medallist and World Championship bronze medal-winning gymnast, is supporting students at Southampton Solent University to reach new heights in their sporting ambitions.
Here, Kelly discusses dual careers and highlights how universities like Solent empower emerging athletes to achieve success on their own terms.
--
Following an inspiring Olympic and Paralympic Games where the nation watched in awe while athletes won medals at the highest level of their sport, it is important to reflect on the individual behind the athlete and how they manage to balance life demands with their career.
It's perhaps not widely acknowledge - at least outside of sporting circles - but many athletes who compete on the national and international stage are managing dual careers; maintaining jobs or in education in order to support themselves to compete in their sport.
Athletes who pursue sport from a young age, who then go on to excel at an international or professional level, often become efficient at juggling multiple commitments around strenuous training and competition schedules.
It could be largely down to this ability that athletes in dual careers are able to succeed, and it's at universities like Southampton Solent University - through programmes like the University's Sport Excellence - that students learn how to manage academic and professional pursuits with sporting ambition.
It doesn't have to be either/or; we're empowering students to do both.
In the UK, the national lottery is one of the main sources of funding provided by UK Sport to programme level athletes, awarded at the discretion of the sport's national governing body.
This is a grant which supports athletes with living, training and competition costs.
While it's a huge support and will help some athletes to go full time in their sport, it's not normally enough for athletes to successfully train and live off.
Some athletes are able to capitalise on their successes and therefore do flexible work through sponsorship deals and appearances, others will still need to hold down part or full-time jobs.
Ahead of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris, you may have noticed some athletes ramping up their social media content and partnerships to make money and financially support themselves.
Like me, others may choose to go through higher education to give themselves the qualifications they might need for when their sporting careers ultimately come to an end.
More than 10% of athletes who competed in this year's Olympics are at university pursuing a degree, while more than 18% have 'day jobs'.
Knowing this, it's essential that institutions like Solent help equip the next generation with the tools they need to not only thrive in sport, but with qualifications that can support them in life beyond sport.
I was fortunate to be a funded athlete on the World Class Programme for 12 years of my gymnastics career.
I received an Athlete Performance Award each month which helped support my training and living costs.
This award was reviewed every six month based on performance, meaning I could be moved up or down the funding pathway.
This, along with sponsorships and flexible work appearances, massively supported me through my gymnastics career and enabled me to pursue a dual career in education alongside my sport.
However, every athlete and sport are different, and every athlete will need to put different things in place in order to best support them through their careers.
Universities, with their facilities, resources and expertise, provide a foundation of support for students who are looking to make their mark in sport.
At Solent, we've got a reputation for supporting students who come to university pursuing both study and sport.
From a dual career perspective, athletes are quickly forced to develop great organisational skills and discipline, and university is a great place to cultivate these skills.
As a young athlete, I was granted permission to miss lessons from school to get more training hours in each week, so I learnt very early how to balance long training hours with education as I went up through the system.
For others, they will be working out how they can fit jobs in alongside sporting schedules, while also having to factor in recovery time, physio appointments and competitions.
Having great support networks and systems in place - like an expert team at their place of study - are vital when it comes to helping dual career athletes thrive.
At Solent, we currently have 18 national and international athletes on the Sport Excellence Programme, providing each athlete with £16,000 worth of practitioner support that they may otherwise have to source and fund themselves.
This includes services such as strength and conditioning and nutrition and psychology sessions; sports therapy; and mental health and wellbeing.
We also provide financial support in the form of a bursary payment, with the aim of supporting some of the costs athletes have to fund.
Perhaps most importantly, we offer academic flexibility to give our students the freedom to achieve.
Universities championing dual careers is massively important in helping student-athletes gain qualifications through elite sport.
I came to Solent as a student and was supported brilliantly through my career.
Now, I get the opportunity to help support others.
As an athlete, you learn how to work hard, be resilient, deal with pressure, and how to work as a team to overcome any challenges that get in your way.
Dual career athletes know that training and competition is only half the job; the discipline and work ethic so many athletes show is why many are able to excel in all areas.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/the-heros-journey-needs-unravelling-its-time-to-tell-new-stories:
27 October 2024
For decades, Joseph Campbell’s hero’s journey has reigned as the dominant narrative structure in popular culture.
Dr Roy Hanney, Associate Professor of Media, explores its relevance in contemporary storytelling.
From Hollywood blockbusters to self-help gurus, this model of storytelling—where a lone protagonist overcomes trials and tribulations to return victorious—has become the ultimate blueprint for understanding our lives and the world.
But is it really the universal truth it’s claimed to be?
The answer, increasingly, appears to be no.
Joseph Campbell’s hero’s journey, as compelling as it might seem, is a product of its time and cultural context.
Developed by cherry-picking myths from around the world and presenting them through a Western, psychoanalytic lens, Campbell claimed to have distilled the "one story" that unites humanity.
Yet the scholarship underpinning his theory is surprisingly weak - filled with generalisations and a lack of critical engagement with the cultures he claimed to represent.
More importantly, Campbell’s framework embodies a Eurocentric, phallocentric worldview that celebrates individualism and trials of strength, while downplaying or ignoring the richness of other ways of storytelling.
As a result, the hero’s journey is far from being a truly universal framework.
It is instead a cultural artifact—a " Hollywood McMyth ," to borrow a phrase—one that has dominated our imagination and sidelined the multiplicity of narratives that better reflect the diversity of human experiences.
At Southampton Solent University, we’ve recently tackled this issue head-on through a one-day symposium on the evolution of story, which inspired the publication of a special journal issue in Media Practice and Education .
The goal was to unravel the myth of the hero’s journey and explore alternative paradigms that embrace community, inclusivity, and non-linear storytelling.
Contributions from academics and practitioners called for a shift away from this outdated model, towards one that recognizes the complexities of global challenges and diverse human experiences.
In a world facing pressing issues that demand collective action, the lone hero myth seems ill-suited and limiting.
The hero’s journey tells a very particular kind of story—one in which a singular hero embarks on an adventure, faces tests of courage, and emerges victorious.
But what if we told stories of shared journeys, stories in which community, companionship, and cooperation are the true heroes?
What if we celebrated narratives that centre around nurturing, empathy, and coexistence rather than conflict and dominance?
In contemporary storytelling, we’re beginning to see signs of this shift.
The rise of immersive, participatory experiences in virtual and augmented reality, as well as new forms of collective and non-linear narratives, challenge the singular hero model.
These stories allow audiences to step into dynamic roles, to become part of a collective journey rather than just watch a lone hero from afar.
At Solent University, we believe in the power of storytelling to shape our worldviews and values.
By promoting diverse and inclusive storytelling practices, we aim to support narratives that are not only reflective of but also nurturing to the multiplicity of voices that make up our society.
The hero’s journey may have its place, but it’s time to open up the stage to other stories—ones that better represent the shared challenges and opportunities of our time.
So, the next time you find yourself watching a familiar Hollywood blockbuster or reading a story about a lone hero, ask yourself: whose voice is missing?
What other stories are waiting to be told?
It’s time to dare to think differently.
The world is richer when we embrace all the stories it has to offer.
Dr Roy Hanney is an Associate Professor of Media Practice.
You can find out more about this work and research on his academic profile .
Film, TV and media

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/incredibly-empowering-lived-experience-leads-to-moving-vision-for-hospital-ward:
23 June 2025
Trigger warning: this story contains references to sensitive subjects
Sophie Criddle, an inspiring undergrad who is soon to graduate from Southampton Solent University, has shared her moving vision for an NHS service supporting people with eating disorders.
Celebrating the end of her studies in BA (Hons) Interior Design Decoration at Solent, Sophie's Final Major Project (FMP) saw her bravely draw on her personal experiences with anorexia nervosa to design a 'home away from home' at the Vincent Square Eating Disorder Service in Chelsea, London.
She says:
"Having lived with anorexia nervosa for 14 years, and experienced multiple inpatient admissions, including time at Vincent Square, this project is more than a design proposal.
It is a deeply personal response to a system I know intimately - one that shaped, challenged and, ultimately, inspired me."
Sophie's project, which reimagines the interior of Vincent Square, envisions a calm and warm space which emulates the feeling of home.
Using a soft colour palette, such as light greens and gentle oranges, and infusing cosy lighting, the spaces envisioned by Sophie have been informed not only by her own experiences, but by research into what patients of services like these would benefit from the most.
Through this combined approach, Sophie has conjured up a vision which is at once therapeutic, welcoming, and psychologically supportive.
"Traditional inpatient environments for eating disorder treatment often feel clinical, cold and institutional spaces that, while functional, can feel emotionally isolating and psychologically triggering," Sophie says.
"My goal was to challenge this and reimagine the unit as a sanctuary for healing."
Sophie's vision aims to provide therapeutic functionality with a warm, comforting atmosphere that feels personal and human.
In July, Sophie is visiting the hospital to present her project and deliver a recovery talk to patients.
On the journey of creating her FMP, Sophie says, "it was an incredibly emotional and transformative experience.
Designing a space that I had once occupied as a patient required me to confront some of the most difficult periods of my life, but it also gave me the opportunity to reclaim that experience and turn it into something hopeful.
"It was incredibly empowering.
It allowed me to combine my lived experience with my creative voice, and to use design as a tool for change and healing.
Every decision was rooted in empathy and a desire to create something better for those who come after me."
Sophie, who is originally from Wokingham, is getting ready to graduate from Solent on Tuesday 8 July.
She will soon be taking part in New Designers, an exhibition of the next generation of design talent.
As she says farewell to university, how has Solent supported Sophie to find her rhythm as an interior designer?
"It's been incredibly valuable to me, both personally and professionally.
It gave me the space and support to explore who I am as a designer and as an individual.
The course encouraged me to approach design not just as a skillset, but as a powerful form of communication and emotional expression."
Architecture, interiors and construction

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/solents-wembley-final:
29 May 2025 • by Solent press team
Students from the BA (Hons) Sports Journalism degree at Southampton Solent University were given the chance to report from Wembley Stadium over the weekend
The lucky eight students were given Press Box accreditation for the English Football League (EFL) 2025 League One and League Two Play-Off Finals, which saw Charlton and AFC Wimbledon gain promotion.
They were tasked with producing web, TV and social media content for their University outlet, Solent Sports News.
“I had the best time ever and still can’t get my head around it,” said third year, Freddie Dorman, who was in charge of publishing a match report seconds after the final whistle.
Second Year student, Ed Groves, said: “It was the best experience ever and I felt like I learnt a lot.
The noise is something I could never have anticipated - the roar of the Wembley crowd took getting used to when writing the live blog, however, I really enjoyed the adrenaline rush of providing quick updates as they happened.”
First-year Harvey Gerring, was a camera operator who also produced a behind-the-scenes video, said: “It was wonderful to be surrounded by journalists and pundits, such as Jobi McAnuff, Mark McAdam, Geoff Shreeves and Gary Taphouse.
Recording interviews with fans on Wembley way whilst thousands of Wimbledon and Walsall fans headed towards the stadium was a unique experience that doesn't come around often.”
The opportunity came from a graduate of the course who now works as a Communications Executive at the EFL.
David Reilly, Senior Lecturer in Sports Journalism, said: “There are many experienced sports journalists who have never got to report on live game at Wembley Stadium, so this is a huge experience for our students.
“On the course, we make sure that they gain match-day experience, and enforce tight deadlines, but there is nothing like doing it for real on the biggest stage.
“Our graduates are in amazing jobs all over the world and we’re really grateful when a former student gets in touch with an opportunity like this.”
The 2025 Play-Off weekend was officially the most successful ever, with 209,000 fans in attendance over three days.
Graduates of Southampton Solent University’s BA (Hons) Sports Journalism and MA Sports Broadcast Journalism are working in TV, Radio, social media and newspapers at Sky Sports, TNT Sport, BBC Sport, TalkSport, IMG, Premier League Productions, ESPN, Two Circles, Tottenham Hotspur and Southampton FC, to name a few.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/southampton-solent-launches-2035-vision:
6 February 2025 • by Solent press team
As Southampton Solent University (Solent) prepares to celebrate the 20th anniversary of being granted university status, the institution is setting out an ambitious new vision.
Ready for the Future: Strategy 2035 details how Solent will become the leading practice-led university in the UK within ten years .
Developed in partnership with students, staff and stakeholders, the strategy builds on its award-winning foundations through three clear strands of focus.
With the higher education landscape ever changing, Solent’s mission is to ensure everyone, no matter their age, can achieve their potential through tailored learning which also meets the needs of communities, industries and the wider region.
The creation of a “Multiversity” drives forward intergenerational learning across the institution with the traditional 18-21 student demographic interacting with, and learning from, those with potentially varied skillsets and experiences and vice versa, supporting all to improve their knowledge and skills.
Solent's excellent city-centre location will be further utilised to benefit the local community and surrounding area.
By bringing together staff and students with businesses, alumni and wider stakeholders, the university will expand collaborative activities to drive growth and innovation in the Solent region and beyond.
As part of this Solent will build upon the existing range of impactful and relevant research and development already carried out by its academics.
World class campus facilities will encourage inward investment into Southampton as a whole, helping to develop lasting partnerships that have a far-reaching impact.
As a city-region, Southampton has long been crucial in ensuring the UK is globally connected.
Solent, through its world leading maritime education provision, is a major contributor to that success.
Greater global connectivity expands knowledge and opportunities for academics, students and the community, and Solent's willingness to embrace technological advancements makes it easier than ever to meaningfully interact with others around the world.
By embodying this connectivity and collaborative working, Solent will further its global reach, working with likeminded partners through knowledge sharing to positively impact global issues.
Vice-Chancellor of Southampton Solent University, James Knowles, said:
“As an institution, Southampton Solent has constantly evolved since its early days as a School of Art more than 100 years ago.
That is no different today, as we continue to embrace the changes needed to support our students and staff, whilst putting a strong focus on our local footprint.
“Our new strategy is ambitious and innovative.
Embracing a modern, practice-led style of teaching ensures every student graduates from Solent equipped with the skills to meet their potential and be ready for the future.
“By working closely with partners and community leaders I am confident that this new vision will meet the needs of the region, to drive innovation and growth.
With our world class facilities and excellent teaching, we will build an incredibly exciting future for everyone associated with the university.”
After winning the Office for Students’ Teaching Excellence Framework Triple Gold award in 2023, Solent has already proven itself a sector leading university, with many of its subject areas highly ranked nationally.
The ‘practice-led learning’ that will form the basis of the new strategy will build upon this strong foundation.
Students will be taught by industry experts using real life case studies so that when they take their next step, they are ready to achieve their goals.
The new strategy will officially be launched with a presentation to staff today (Thursday 6 February) before being showcased to stakeholders across the region over the coming months.
Solent is also planning to unveil a renewed civic charter as part of the strategy, which will give local partners the opportunity to join the university in a commitment to driving forth common goals in the local community over the coming months.
You can view the full strategy here .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/research-partnership-centres-community-in-evaluating-impact:
7 July 2025
A new research project, co-led by Southampton Solent University and Communicare in Southampton – a charity which works to eradicate loneliness – will introduce volunteers and service users to a new bespoke approach to evaluating impact.
‘How do we know we do what we say we do?’ is a research project led by Solent’s Associate Professor of Applied Psychology, Dr Karen Burnell and Communicare Manager, Annie Clewlow.
Funded by the British Society of Gerontology’s Averil Osborn Award for Participatory Research, this project has been developed to co-create a sustainable evaluation method for Communicare, which could then be used by other charities.
Dr Burnell says, “I place enormous value on conducting research that is needed and meaningful.
All of my research has started in the community, with people on the ground and in the middle of things, be they the people who use services or those who provide them.
Through these conversations, collaboration occurs.
“In order for this work to be truly meaningful – and to meet a need – the expertise of service users and providers is essential.
The research would be poorer without it, and that’s why I believe collaboration is absolutely essential.”
Dr Burnell’s research, which will be used to create a new way of evaluating Communicare’s output and impact, will be supported by an advisory group made up of 20 volunteers and service users.
Additionally, two students from Solent University will be recruited as co-researchers, giving them the opportunity to gain experience in real-world research.
Communicare currently supports around 750 individuals and families through a series of interventions including befriending, transport to appointments, assistance with daily needs such as shopping, and wellbeing calls.
Solent regularly collaborates with the charity, supporting its services which are developed to enrich the lives of isolated people in and around Southampton.
To champion continual improvement of the service, charity volunteers will learn how to carry out evaluations, empowering them to review Communicare’s delivery and offer unique insights that can help shape their offer.
‘How do we know we do what we say we do?’ will ensure that Communicare – and charities like them who have the opportunity to adopt this new, evidence-based approach to evaluation – is delivering services that are both needed and informed by its users and volunteers.
Research

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/trifoiler-demonstrator-proves-cost-reduction-potential-of-electric-fast-ferries:
12 June 2025 • by Solent press team
The successful completion of the trimaran fast ferry TriFoiler demonstrator project showcases how collaboration between academia and industry is fuelling innovation, enhancing student learning, and addressing real-world challenges in maritime engineering.
The electric trimaran vessel, developed by Chartwell Marine, in partnership with Southampton Solent University and Newcastle Marine Services, under the UK Government’s Clean Maritime Demonstration Competition (CMDC3), has concluded initial sea trials on Southampton water.
This follows its successful on-time, on-budget launch in March.
Set out to explore the feasibility of zero-emission passenger ferries, sea trials revealed the TriFoiler is five times cheaper to run than an equivalent fossil fuel powered monohull vessel of the same size and displacement.
Demonstrating clear potential for reducing energy consumption in commercial operations – with or without foils – the trials highlighted the suitability of the innovative electric trimaran for inland and inshore waterways ferry operations, such as the Solent and other categorised waters across the UK.
The project was part-funded by a £1.86 million grant via UK SHORE programme – a Department for Transport (DfT) initiative – delivered by Innovate UK, part of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).
“Successfully completing the TriFoiler project is a big milestone and testament to the team’s hard work.
The sea trial results clearly show that a trimaran, coupled with electric propulsion systems, will provide an efficient, reliable and environmentally friendly solution for the ferry industry,” says Andy Page, Managing Director at Chartwell Marine.
“Working closely with Solent University and Newcastle Marine Services, we’ve taken this promising concept from R&D to real-world testing, and the results are encouraging.
This was delivered by a dynamic, nimble team in a short time frame, and shows real commercial promise.”
Pairing a lightweight trimaran hull with electric propulsion, the TriFoiler achieves high efficiency and manoeuvrability at both high and low speed.
Its enhanced stability, made possible by the trimaran configuration and foil-mounted electric motors positioned widely on the foil, offers a simple, robust design, using commercial off the shelf equipment that has the potential to meet the demands of day-to-day commercial operations.
“The project exemplifies how collaboration between academia and industry can accelerate innovation,” said Giles Barkley, at Southampton Solent University.
“We created a full-size digital twin of the vessel to replicate its performance on water at the University.
Now validated with data from the trials, this enables us to enhance future designs while also supporting the training and development of the next generation of naval architects.”
Mike Biddle, Executive Director for Net Zero at Innovate UK, said: "Chartwell Marine’s TriFoiler technology is a good example of UK innovation driving decarbonisation in a vital international sector.
It shows that net zero doesn’t mean compromise – delivering lower emissions can also be cheaper to run, faster and more manoeuvrable.
“We’re proud to work in partnership with DfT to deliver the UK SHORE programme and this demonstration exemplifies everything it set out to achieve, paving the way for a more sustainable, efficient and investable UK maritime transport sector."
Further testing will resume on the vessel incorporating the latest findings to inform the next stage of development.
Engineering

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/pioneering-research-to-tackle-work-related-ill-health-in-maritime-sector:
31 March 2025
While work place  injuries often make headlines, work-related ill-health causes significantly more suffering, with the International Labour Organization estimating 2.6 million deaths annually from occupational diseases compared to 330,000 from accidents.
The maritime sector is one of the world's most hazardous, less well-regulated than others, with hard-to-track negative health impacts.
Researchers at Southampton Solent University are collaborating with industry partners on a project funded by the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) to address the growing challenge of work-related ill-health among maritime workers.
Using the insights generated, they will develop an innovative toolbox that can be used for recording and analysing adverse health outcomes affecting workers in UK ports and on UK-registered ships.
This research aims to improve knowledge particularly around mental health issues in the maritime sector.
A range of partners will participate, including the UK’s Maritime and Coastguard Agency and Port Skills and Safety, the UK’s professional ports health and safety membership organisation.
The comprehensive toolbox created at the end of the project this autumn will feature data collection forms, best practice guidance, instructional animations, and analytical resources specifically designed for maritime health and safety professionals.
The kit will enable consistent recording of suspected work-related health incidents, supporting better analysis and prevention strategies.
Dr Helen Devereux, Senior Lecturer at Solent University's Warsash Maritime School and Principal Investigator for the project, says: “Our maritime workers are the invisible backbone of UK trade, handling 95% of imports and exports.
Yet when it comes to understanding their occupational health challenges, particularly mental health, we're navigating with incomplete charts.
“This toolbox will provide the structured data collection and analysis framework needed to identify harmful patterns and prevent future illness.”
Genis Fernandes, IOSH Research Programme Lead, said: “This project exemplifies IOSH’s commitment to evidence-based approaches in occupational safety and health.
“By equipping practitioners with practical tools to investigate workplace health impacts, we’re addressing a critical gap between safety and health practices.
The potential for this methodology to expand beyond maritime to other sectors makes it particularly valuable for advancing workplace health globally.”
The research responds to industry attempts to better record and analyse workforce health data, such as the ‘Dashboard’ initiative by the Port Skills and Safety Organisation, while addressing persistent inconsistencies in comprehensive health data collection.
To follow the project, visit the website for A toolbox for recording and analysing work related adverse health outcomes for workers in UK ports and onboard UK registered ships .
-ENDS-
About IOSH:
IOSH is the global chartered membership body for occupational safety and health professionals with a vision of a safe and healthy world of work.
As a registered charity, IOSH promotes systematic methods of improving occupational safety and health while developing, supporting and promoting research that improves workplace safety and health through evidence-based studies.
IOSH has invested approximately £6.5 million in 60 research projects since establishing its research fund in 2003, continuing its charitable objective to promote systematic methods of improving occupational safety and health worldwide.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/trifoiler-demonstrator-enters-sea-trials-stage:
28 March 2025 • by Solent press team
A new cost-effective, zero-emissions solution for high-speed passenger ferries enters sea trials thanks to an innovative industry-led collaboration between Southampton Solent University, Chartwell Marine and Newcastle Marine Services.
Representatives from Chartwell Marine and Solent University introduced the electric foiling high-speed trimaran demonstrator to industry leaders, academics and policymakers at the Coastal Powerhouse Conference in Southampton, this week.
The project has been supported by a £1.86 million UK Government grant – awarded under the Clean Maritime Demonstration Competition Round 3 (CMDC3).
The funding has been used to develop and build a scaled demonstrator vessel, which aims to test a simpler, cost-effective, zero-emission foiling ferry concept
Featuring a lightweight trimaran hull, a fixed main foil, and actuating foiling rudder, the design reduces energy consumption and power demand while maintaining speed.
The energy-efficient layout places the batteries in the sponsons, away from passenger areas, enhancing safety and maximising space onboard.
Solent University Project Lead, Associate Professor of Marine Sustainability, Dr Laurie Wright, says, “This project is not only advancing energy efficiency but also offering a practical and scalable solution for the maritime sector's transition to zero emissions.
It’s important that we prioritise sustainability and green energy in the sector and I’m very excited that we’re able to see the test vessel in the water already.”
The month-long sea trial will provide data on the vessel’s handling, efficiency, and performance across various sea and weather conditions, to determine the TriFoiler’s suitability for commercial operations – one that has the potential to transform short coastal, high-traffic passenger routes, such as the Solent.
Andy Page, Managing Director of Chartwell Marine says, “Given that electric power has a lower energy density compared to traditional fuels, minimising energy usage is crucial for achieving optimal results.
Finding the balance between efficiency and reliability is key.
We are very excited about the TriFoiler concept, which has been made possible through our partnership with Solent University and the support of Innovate UK funding.
We look forward to sharing our findings later this year.”
The findings from the trial will be shared at the end of April, informing the next stage of development, moving towards a full-scale, 24-metre, 40-passenger foiling ferry capable of speeds up to 28 knots.
Neale Ryan, Head of Land and Maritime Transport at Innovate UK, said: “The TriFoiler project embodies what CMDC was created for — demonstrating practical, scalable clean maritime technologies in real world conditions.
These trials advance the industry’s understanding of foiling technology and its potential to reduce emissions, improve operational efficiency and support the decarbonisation of the maritime industry.”
The vessel could eventually be used for commercial operations on Southampton water, and future versions sold into the wider fast ferry market, both in the UK and abroad.
-ENDS_
This project is funded by UK Government through the UK Shipping Office for Reducing Emissions (UK SHORE) programme in the Department for Transport.
UK SHORE has allocated over £200m since 2022 to develop the technologies necessary to decarbonise the UK maritime sector and capture the economic growth opportunity of the transition.
Innovate UK, part of UK Research and Innovation, is the main delivery partner for UK SHORE interventions.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/national-fellowship-for-solent-lecturer:
8 August 2025
Rachel Lamb, an academic and researcher who has spent 24 years empowering students at Southampton Solent University, has been awarded a National Teaching Fellowship (NTF).
Awarded by AdvanceHE, a charity which supports higher education to deliver the very best for students, staff and communities, the National Teaching Fellowship Scheme celebrates individuals who have had an outstanding impact when it comes to student outcomes.
Additionally, it recognises those who are delivering the highest standard of teaching in higher education.
On this recognition, Rachel says, "I am incredibly proud and humbled to have been awarded a National Teaching Fellowship.
This recognition from AdvanceHE is a powerful validation of the practice-led approach I have championed at Southampton Solent University for over two decades.
It signifies that our unwavering focus on active, real-world pedagogies, often established long before their widespread adoption across the sector, continues to drive meaningful change in student learning.
"This award reflects the outstanding teaching environment here at Solent, a triple TEF Gold institution, and is a shared success with my dedicated colleagues and the inspiring students whose journeys I have been fortunate to guide towards successful graduate outcomes."
Alongside her successful career in higher education, which has been spent enhancing learning and teaching experiences at Solent, Rachel has been a journalist for more than two decades.
She has written pieces on fashion, lifestyle and celebrity for publications including Glamour Magazine and Fabulous, and contributed to many of the UK's national newspapers, interviewing key figures in politics, fashion and entertainment.
Solent's Pro Vice-Chancellor Education, Professor Sarah Jones, says:
"Rachel exemplifies the qualities of an outstanding educator; her work is innovative, purposeful, and underpinned by a deep commitment to student success.
Her contributions have left a lasting impact on students and staff at Southampton Solent University and beyond."
In 2024, Rachel co-authored a research paper on collaborative learning with Solent's Learning Design Manager, Dr Carina Buckley and Dr Sabrina Vieth, Head of Learning and Teaching.
Entitled The Living CV, this project was created to support students in developing their employability skills and evidence their learning outcomes.
At Solent, Rachel gives students the opportunity to gain insight and experience into create a magazine through Carbon - an art and fashion publication which champions emerging talent in the creative industries.
Rachel's inimitable commitment to connecting students to industry opportunities showcases her passion for higher education which emphasises real-world opportunities.
Sabrina says:
"As Solent's Teaching Excellence Award Lead, I am excited to celebrate Rachel's deserved recognition as National Teaching Fellow.
Supporting Rachel through the submission process gave me the opportunity to reflect with her on the many examples of her outstanding contributions to learning and teaching over more than 20 years.
"Rachel is truly dedicated to Solent and its mission to create opportunities for every students.
She is full of ideas, always at the forefront of new developments, and shares her practices with the true intention to inspire and support others.
I am so proud of Rachel and delighted that this is formerly acknowledged through this prestigious award."

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/student-film-shines-a-spotlight-on-the-experiences-of-young-people-in-the-city:
27 February 2025
Students from Southampton Solent University's Department of Film and Media have made a short film shining a spotlight on Southampton City Council's (SCC) Junior Neighbourhood Wardens.
Second year students across BA (Hons) Television Production and Post Production for Film and Television are gaining practical experience by creating a short film celebrating young people in Southampton and raising awareness of their experiences.
Promoting the Junior Neighbourhood Wardens scheme to ensure every young person has the opportunity to get involved, students Spencer Bedder (producer), Max Fagan (director), Rob Bartlett (editor), Will Munday (camera) and Steph Romer (sound) have utilised their developing skills to create an impactful film that celebrates the initiative and its impact.
Students are not only directing, editing and delivering this film to raise awareness of both the impact of the Junior Wardens Scheme and the experiences of young people, they are taking part in events across the city to immerse themselves in the initiative.
Television Production student, Spencer Bedder, says:
“We were delighted to be selected for this project as it is a great opportunity for us as a group to get out into the community and see first-hand how the Junior Neighbourhood Wardens Scheme positively benefits young people across Southampton.
It’s also a great way to put all our technical training into practice as a group in a way that can’t be achieved in the classroom.
“This experience is so valuable, allowing me to learn how to manage a team effectively as well as liaise with contributors to a professional standard.”
SCC's Junior Neighbourhood Wardens scheme, which has been running for more than two decades, provides young people with a range of activities and connects them to people from a diversity of backgrounds to not only provide them with a meaningful experience, but instil a sense of civic pride within them.
During the making of this film, students have had the opportunity to get to know the young people involved in this scheme, in order to celebrate their contributions and tell their story.
On the importance of a project of this kind, Senior Lecturer TV Production, Kate O’Driscoll, says:
“This film project is a perfect example of the innovative real-world learning that is embedded within the curriculum.
Students have the opportunity to work on a live brief, whilst also supporting a wonderful project like the Junior Neighbourhood Wardens scheme, which is empowering young people to make positive contributions to their communities.
“Not only does this project support the University's commitment to building strong partnerships with organisations across the city, it also gives young people from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to engage with our current students in a positive way.”
Find out more about film, television and media courses at Solent here .
Image credit: Rob Bartlett
Solent stories

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/solent-undergrads-make-a-difference-as-volunteers:
10 February 2025
At Universities like Southampton Solent University, thousands of students are putting their growing skills to good use, contributing to causes through volunteering.
Run by the Student Volunteering Network and taking place between Monday 10 and Friday 14 February, Student Volunteering Week celebrates learners who volunteer, while encouraging everyone to get involved in causes they care about.
At Solent, we're proud that students across every department are offering their time to communities and local organisations as volunteers, leaving behind a lasting and positive impact.
Wondering what kind of thing our community is getting involved in?
Take a look below.
Both on and off campus, we encourage students to utilise their knowledge of core subjects to nurture those skills in others.
When it comes to literacy, BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education students are volunteering their time to primary school pupils as part of a project designed to improve their confidence and enjoyment of reading.
The project, known as Ready Readers , launched in 2023 and encourages both students and staff to become Book Buddies to a young person, helping to bridge the literacy gap.
When it comes to maths, undergrads with an interest in the subject are invited to become volunteer tutors for local pupils who are preparing for their exams.
This is an opportunity for students to develop skills in tutoring, while helping their peers to ace their exams.
Both programmes have a meaningful impact on both the volunteer and beneficiary, adding to the growing suite of skills students acquire at Solent while making a difference elsewhere.
As a civic university, we're passionate about working in tandem with organisations based in the city to help their business thrive while giving our students opportunities to learn.
BSc (Hons) Psychology undergraduates are leading the way in their proactive approach to building contacts both in Southampton and further afield, volunteering their time to worthwhile causes.
Luke Thomas, a final-year Psychology student whose volunteering work includes as a Youth Advisory Group member with Young Minds; advocating for young people at a parliamentary visit; and as clinical volunteer in a healthcare setting, has seen huge benefits from volunteering alongside his studies.
He says:
"Volunteering for me has been one of the most rewarding experiences during my journey as a student.
It became a way for me to develop key skills and confidence, whilst using my time to help others.
"These opportunities taught me invaluable skills and have been key in building resilience; volunteering pushed me out of my comfort zone, and it has made me so much stronger in the long run.
It's been more than just an extracurricular activity or a way to develop employability skills (those were just bonuses), it's been a path for personal growth and a chance to contribute to positive change - all whilst giving me lots to add to my CV!"
Other psychology students across different stages of their study are also showcasing their altruistic nature, offering their time to organisations such as Shout, a national text service for people in crisis, and No Limits, a local charity supporting young people in Southampton.
In the Department of Social Sciences and Nursing, BA (Hons) Criminology undergraduates are taking part in a project which is the first of its kind at Solent, becoming mentors to students in Cambodia.
Now in its second year, volunteer mentors are building connections with pupils at the Cambodian Children’s Fund’s Neeson Cripps Academy in Phnom Penh, giving students at both institutions the opportunity to learn from one another and inspire their future pathways.
At Solent, we’re proud of the positive difference our community has off campus.
This includes our work with Southampton Football Club’s charity, Saints Foundation.
Since 2014, more than 150 BSc (Hons) Sports Coaching and Physical Education students have given over 1,000 hours of volunteering to the charity, working with people of all ages through sports-based projects which boost the physical and mental wellbeing of participants.
Not only has this volunteering supported hundreds of community members, it's also resulted in several job offers for students, enabling them to turn something they love into paid employment.
Check out graduate Shiraz Zawahir’s story to get inspired.
Across Solent’s Department of Social Sciences and Nursing, students are taking what they learn on campus out into community settings, including BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice undergraduates.
Recognising the prevalence of loneliness among older adults, students have been volunteering with CommuniCare, a local charity nurturing multigenerational friendship groups in Southampton.
Throughout the year, nursing students also take part in some of the city’s biggest community events, including the Mela Festival, providing free health checks, delivering CPR training and raising awareness of healthy lifestyles.
Every year, BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy students at Solent get involved in the ABP Southampton Marathon.
Supported by the Department of Sport and Health, undergraduates put their learning into practice by offering complimentary massages to runners, with hundreds of participants benefiting from this scheme.
In 2025, ABP Southampton Marathon’s 10th year coincides with Solent University’s 20th anniversary – watch this space for more volunteering action to come.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/southampton-film-week-recognises-student-talent-at-solent:
30 January 2025
Music Business students Harvey Cecil and Sasha Sinkler took home a trophy at Southampton Film Week 2024, winning Best Music Video together with co-director Helen Burdfield.
After working with up-and-coming band Fred Lane as part of a documentary assignment, the team were recruited to direct and produce a high-quality music video for Fred Lane's single The One - shot on location in Southampton.
"I am incredibly proud to have won this award," Harvey said.
"Having only truly discovered my creativity since coming to university, being involved in such an amazing project with such a talented group of people was rewarding enough on its own.
Winning this award has helped recognise the hard, but enjoyable, work of everyone involved, as well as the talent of Fred Lane."
Solent's approach to learning and teaching means music students not only have an opportunity to collaborate with musicians and creatives in the city but are actively encouraged to build those professional connections.
"My course has definitely brought out the creative side in me," Harvey said, "as well as the confidence to be able to attempt a project like that.
I just feel an all-round more confident person since joining Solent and have had so many opportunities to really test myself and put myself in spaces I would never have thought of before."
Music Business at Solent is all about equipping students with the tools they need to thrive in one of the country's most competitive industries.
For Sasha, getting involved in Solent Creatives - an on-campus enterprise which gives students the opportunity to work with real-world clients and boost their CVs - has been instrumental during her journey.
"I have had so many opportunities to develop my skills in videography and editing through Solent Creatives," Sasha said, "and have been able to connect with a broad network of creative people through my course and other music-related events at Solent."
Ranked in the top 20 for student experience in the Times Good University Guide 2025, the course has seen graduates go on to work at notable companies such as Universal, Spotify and Live Nation.
Solent's Course Leader for Music Business, James Hannam, said:
"We're delighted that Sasha and Harvey's music video has been recognised with a well-deserved award.
They have both worked hard during their three years at Solent - not only on their academic work, but on gaining external contacts and work experience opportunities."
Want to find out more about our BA (Hons) Music Business degree?
Check out the course page here .
Awards
Music and performing arts
The film Frequency won Best Film and Best Adapted Screenplay at the Solent Film and Media Awards.
BA (Hons) Digital Music final year students had the fantastic opportunity to take part in a totally unique end of year DJ assessment.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/students-get-insight-into-songwriting-for-best-selling-artists:
29 January 2025
With a slate of industry successes, a lecturer at Southampton Solent University is showing students how to succeed in the the competitive world of music, most recently co-writing the iconic Simple Minds' latest release.
As an Associate Lecturer in Popular Music, Paul Statham is a regular source of inspiration and insight for music students at Solent.
Now, the University community is celebrating the release of Simple Minds' latest single, Your Name in Lights, co-written by Paul.
The track had its debut on Monday 9 December on Radio 2's Zoe Ball Breakfast Show, signalling another success for Paul, who has enjoyed an illustrious career as a songwriter.
The importance of role-modelling, which is to say connecting students with professionals who are active in their field, is something Solent is committed to, with the most current industry trends and experiences influencing teaching.
Paul says:
"Having an active career allows me to remain up to date with changing themes and stylistic influences in current popular music, and to bring in relevant contemporary writing briefs for students.
It also allows me to engage with different learning institutions, take the best bits and bring them into my Solent teaching experience.
"Most importantly, working in my studio and engaging with real-world business situations, such as with publishers, managers and sync companies, allows me to honestly de-mystify a lot of assumptions and share this with students."
Paul has contributed to songs which have sold more than 30 million copies, giving BA (Hons) Popular Music Performance and Production undergraduates the opportunity to learn first-hand what goes in to writing music for some of the most recognisable bands and artists in the world.
When it comes to enhancing student experiences, Paul uses his own from the industry to help undergrads carve out their own successes: "I try and bring real-life writing scenarios and song briefs into my teaching.
"Having written across, and had successes in, a wide variety of genres, we look at a range of song styles.
From niche styles to big sellers, I introduce a technique or area of songwriting - such as rhyme scheme, title placement, melodic arc and contrast - to each seminar."
The value of this exposure for students is inimitable.
Solent's Course Leader Popular Music Production, Toni Diaz, says:
"Paul's expertise in professional songwriting is a real asset to the course, providing real-world insights to our music students.
With his guidance, our students are inspired to write songs of their own, utilising his immediate knowledge of the industry and its processes to carve out success on their own terms."
Under the supervision of lecturers like Paul, graduates go on to thrive in the music industry at labels including Sony Music and Columbia Records.
Combining teaching from professionals with industry-standard facilities and studios, Solent equips students with the sought-after skills required to thrive in the competitive music industry.
Want to know what studying popular music at Solent is all about?
Find out here .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/student-project-to-be-used-in-police-training:
22 January 2025
Thames Valley Police are utilising part of a project delivered by third year BA (Hons) Criminology students at Southampton Solent University.
Ranked in the top 20% nationally for teaching quality across a variety of subjects in The Times Good University Guide 2025, Criminology students at Solent are taught by experts in their field with strong links to local and national services.
Utilising this connection, Senior Lecturer Criminology, Nigel Lee, has led to a project developed by three students be selected for use in real-world police training.
As part of a Police, Law and Community module, third-year students were asked to research and present on a type of crime which can affect young people in England.
The successful group tackled sexual violence and, as part of their project, had to incorporate the National Decision Model (NDM) into their work.
This is a key element of policing in England and Wales, and the  group expertly linked to Project Vigilant, an ongoing initiative at the Thames Valley Police created to prevent sexual violence.
The aim of the brief was to give final-year students an opportunity to showcase their understanding of police strategies as they head towards graduation and out into the world of work.
Every student produced high-standard responses, with this particular group excelling in their approach.
They say:
"We thoroughly enjoyed researching Project Vigilant and the incredible work Thames Valley Police are doing to prevent sexual violence in the night time economy.
Researching the project was both enlightening and inspiring, and it's an honour to know that our work is now being used in training.
We are proud to contribute to such an important project."
Now, following a request from the force, part of the group's presentation will be incorporated into Thames Valley Police's training materials on the principles of Project Vigilant.
This unique success highlights the high-quality teaching delivered at Solent, guided by lecturers who have decades of experience under their belt.
Thames Valley Police's DI Tina Wallace KMP, says:
"I wanted to take a moment to thank you and your students for the fantastic work they've done in supporting Project Vigilant.
The visual representation of the NDM created by your students on LinkedIn was presented in such a simple yet effective way, and I believe it would be incredibly beneficial for our officers to see and use as part of our training.
We are constantly striving to modernise and improve our approach, and their work aligns perfectly with that aim."
Find out more about Criminology at Solent here .
Law and criminology

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/national-awards-night-comes-to-southampton-for-first-time-in-15-years-1:
6 January 2025
Students and staff at Southampton Solent University are delighted that the National Student Television Association (NaSTA) Conference and Awards will be hosted on campus in the spring of 2025.
On Friday 4 April, hundreds of students from across England will visit Solent’s city-centre campus – in the University’s iconic Spark building – to celebrate their achievements and connect with their peers.
Over three days, SonarEvents – Solent's award-winning, student-run live events society – will take the lead in running a series of interactive activities alongside a prestigious awards ceremony.
Around 100 Solent students from courses including BA (Hons) Television Production , CGI and Visual Effects , Live Event Technology and Photography will get hands-on experience of successfully running a live event of this scale – not to mention one of the most popular events in the sector.
Every aspect of the event will be overseen by students, from lighting and graphics to videography and sound, and everything in between.
The scale of the event gives students the opportunity to flex their existing skills while learning new ones, adding impressive practical experience across a diversity of roles to their CVs.
The NaSTA Awards invite students from universities all over the UK to come together alongside professionals to celebrate their successes and network with industry figures.
Each year, around 45 student-run TV stations enter the awards, which are the only – and longest-running – of their kind.
Students will be supported by the University’s dedicated teaching staff, who are equally as excited about this prestigious event coming to Southampton.
Dr Stuart Joy, Course Leader Film and Television , says:
“Hosting the NaSTA Awards at Southampton Solent University underscores our commitment to nurturing the next generation of creative professionals.
This prestigious event not only celebrates excellence in student broadcasting but also aligns with our work-ready ethos by offering hands-on experience and invaluable exposure to the vibrant film and television industry.”
Not only is this event a unique opportunity for students to boost their practical skills, but it’s a chance for them to showcase all they are capable of to a large-scale audience.
BA (Hons) Television Production student and Host Officer for the project, Will Swain says:
"This event will help so many students with preparation for their careers, providing an experience like no other - it's definitely one for the CV!
"Throughout the weekend there will be opportunities for students to meet and network with industry professionals through TV and Media, where anything is possible - from offers of work experience to futures jobs for graduates."
This is the first time in 15 years that NaSTA has come to Southampton, and marks Solent’s very first foray into hosting it.
It’s thanks to SonarEvents that the University is embracing this opportunity, as their winning bid to host – including a programme of bespoke events – wowed the selection committee.
The 52 nd National Student Television Conference and Awards will take place at Southampton Solent University Friday 4 to Sunday 6 April 2025.
Find out more here .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/business-students-get-unique-insight-into-the-uks-busiest-airport:
12 December 2024 • by Solent press team
At Southampton Solent University, we’re all about connecting our students to opportunities which enhance their learning and help shape their future.
We did just that this term, when we welcomed Heathrow Airport onto campus.
When it comes to future-ready teaching and learning, Solent’s Department of Business and Law collaborates with businesses of all sizes to offer insight into the way an organisation works (and thrives) in practice.
At a unique masterclass event hosted by Heathrow Airport in the first term of the 2024/25 academic year, second year undegrads studying BSc (Hons) Business Management , BSc (Hons) Business Management with Digital Technologies , BSc (Hons) Business Management with Finance , BSc (Hons) Business Management with Marketing and BSc (Hons) International Business Management , took part in a day of simulated activities offering a look at how the airport – which welcomed more than 79 million passengers in 2023 – operates successfully.
The day, which was hosted by Heathrow’s Operations and Resilience team, offered an interactive programme of simulated workshops, informative talks, and an opportunity for students to ask the professionals what it’s like to work for such a busy organisation.
One student said:
“I learned a lot about planning different scenarios.
It made me want to be part of such a dynamic environment.”
The masterclass not only lifted the curtain on the exciting world of aviation, but helped students gain a better understanding of the key skills employers are after, including adaptability, decision-making and teamwork.
Business and Management lecturer, Uje Daniel Apeji, said:
“This was a very engaging and interactive event.
It showcased the real-world complexities of operations management, and it was fantastic to see our students so involved and enthusiastic.”
This event was just one of many designed to boost student learning and equip them with the tools they need to thrive in the world of work.
With industry connections, Solent utilises its networks to bring sought-after experiences to the heart of campus, giving students a strong footing for success in their future careers.
Emma Russel, a representative from Heathrow Airport team said:  "It was great to see the students fully engaged, assessing different risks and adapting their responses.
We always enjoy working with Solent Business School and witnessing such enthusiasm and critical thinking."
Learn more about Business and Finance courses at Solent
TV production students live streamed a Solent Kestrels basketball game, in a way that has never been done before.
Solent welcomed industry professionals to the Solent Construction Skills conference to discuss the skills shortage in the industry.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/solent-students-shine-at-camp-bestival:
31 July 2024
For over 20 years Solent University has been offering students the work experience of a lifetime – where they have the chance to form part of the media crew at a range of music festivals throughout the summer.
Through Solent Productions , Solent University's in-house production company, students can apply to work at festivals including Glastonbury, Bestival and Boardmasters.
Hot on the heels of Camp Bestival 2024 , where 27 students had the opportunity to gain experience, we caught up with technical instructors, Ian Williamson and Steve Middleton to find out more about the roles students had – and how Steve even had a guest DJ slot on the infamous Bollywood stage.
Ian: We’ve been working with Bestival for over 14 years, and took 27 students this year, from courses including TV production, film and tv, film, journalism and photography to name only a few – they took part in roles such as camera operators, tech supervisors, production manager, production co-ordinator, photographer, editor, doco team and vision mixing.
We also had four students shadowing the professionals on stage, two working with the sound company and two on lighting.
Steve: Working with the students on a professional level is always a highlight.
Teaching them at uni is one thing but seeing them get the experience with such passion and excitement is something else.
I think this type of real-world experience gives students such a head start; it doesn't get more 'real world’ than this.
After an event like this, students become more like work colleagues.
Ian: The highlight for me is always seeing the students develop, we set up on the Thursday and train the students on all the cameras.
Friday, I'm in the van quite a lot working with the students and guiding the camera work, encouraging creativity and shadowing where necessary.
Later on Friday and then Saturday and Sunday we start to step back and let the students manage the whole show which is a brilliant experience for them.
Sunday evening, as soon as the stage finishes, we then pack down all the Solent kit.
Ian: This kind of experience is gold dust.
The amount of hands-on time with the kit and running an outside broadcast for a festival is amazing - the students have to hone their skills but also work as a team and communicate during the weekend.
It's also great for them to create new contacts with the other companies working at the festival, including the screen company, PA company, and crew on the stage.
Last year, for example, a couple of students got jobs following their work experience at Glastonbury Festival.
Steve: Giving them this type of work experience speaks volumes - it doesn't only prepare them but gives them a taste of what life could be like if they aim high, work hard and make themselves known.
I got chatting to the Production Manager and it turned out there was an extra DJ slot available on the Bollywood stage.
Having been a DJ for over 20 years I jumped at the chance.
Ian and the students were all so supportive; they came over, took photos and videos, and Minami, a BSc (Hons) Live Event Technology student, even ran the lighting while I was performing.
A total team effort and again shows how professional and talented our students are.
The gig was absolutely brilliant; I had a blast and can't thank Chris, Jemma, Erin, and the Bollywood stage crew enough.
What a gig!
Feeling inspired?
Discover Solent’s range of TV, film and media courses

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/sport-coaching-student-wins-prize-for-outstanding-contribution-to-volunteering:
11 July 2024
Class of 2024 graduate Rebecca Marshall has been awarded the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) prize for her outstanding contribution to her degree and multiple volunteering roles.
This year, Solent's coaching staff were pleased to nominate Rebecca Marshall, BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching , for this prestigious prize.
CIMSPA, the sector's only Chartered Institute, is tasked by the Government and industry-leading employers to ensure those working within the sports sector have access to quality assured training, qualifications, and continuing professional development (CPD) opportunities.
To be nominated, students must have completed a CIMSPA-endorsed degree, actively engaged in enhancing their employability skills, performed strongly in placements, accessed industry-based professional development, and independently developed external contacts.
Rebecca commented: “Being acknowledged for my hard work is extremely rewarding and valuable, allowing me to truly realise the effort I have put into my learning whilst at university”.
Before starting university, Rebecca had limited experience working in sports, although she competed in the niche sport of motorcycle Sidecarcross.
Noting the lack of coaching in her sport, she was inspired to create a coaching career pathway for herself.
Despite beginning her degree during the Covid-19 national lockdown, Rebecca was determined and, as soon as the country reopened, she worked hard to gain real-world experience.
Rebecca was the first person to ever secure a placement year at Motorsport UK and one of the first women to complete their new driver coach certification programme.
This placement allowed Rebecca to work with many aspiring motorsport drivers as a coaching coordinator, giving her behind-the-scenes insight into the pathways available for athletes striving for success.
During her placement year, she also worked as a fitness coach for Formula 4 drivers across the UK.
Since returning, Rebecca has continued to volunteer in various coaching roles, particularly in strength and conditioning.
Reflecting on her Motorsport UK experience, Rebecca said: "Working as a driver performance coach in Formula 4 allowed me to gain an insight into the world of strength and conditioning within motorsport.
Each driver had an individual programme they could complete at home, on the move, or at headquarters.
I analysed how programmes changed from practice to racing and used this information for my university assignments and the strength and conditioning sessions I delivered for both the university netball and cricket teams."
Course leader Adam Lewis explains why Rebecca was nominated: “Rebecca was nominated because she is an outstanding student, highly capable, independent, an aspirational performance coach, and a fantastic female coach who should be a role model to other Solent University students.
Not only did she gain first-class honours in BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching, but she also exemplifies real-world learning with her proactive attitude towards placements."
Despite a busy final year of studies, Rebecca continued to volunteer in numerous coaching roles, particularly in strength and conditioning (S&C).
She assisted in coaching sessions for a Formula 2 driver within the University of Southampton's high-performance programme, led her own weekly S&C sessions for two Solent University sport teams, and mentored students in assistant coach roles, guiding them in training program design, coaching skills, reflection, and feedback.
Rebecca was also a course representative in her final year, helping to shape course improvements and promoting the merits of placements to first and second-year students.
Rebecca will be enrolling this September in the MSc Strength and Conditioning programme at Solent University to continue her professional development, with the aim of securing a higher-level job in performance sport coaching.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/students-celebrate-at-creative-summer-show:
11 June 2024
Friday 7 June saw final year students from some of Solent University, Southampton’s creative courses celebrate their unique final major projects at the annual Summer Degree Show.
Course and industry awards were presented, students networked with industry professionals, families and friends were welcomed, and smiles and hugs were in abundance throughout the evening.
It was a fantastic event, celebrating the culmination of three years of hard work by our tremendously talented students.
Sustainability and the natural environment were hot topics throughout all courses with sustainable fashion, fashion media, architecture, design and art exploring and portraying a conscientious narrative.
Other themes included identity, genderless clothing, mental health and wellbeing, poverty, empowerment, family connections, and the addiction and influence of social media, to name just a few.
Students used different mediums from AI and the latest technology to traditional practices and recycled materials for their projects.
Some courses awarded prizes to star students on the night, including:
Several students have also been shortlisted for awards during Graduate Fashion Week, and we wish them luck for (hopefully) some further celebrations later this week.
Head of Department for Art and Music, Brent Meheux, said “The event is one of the highlights of the year for the department as we have a chance to see all the creative final projects together.
Our students work hard to get to this point and choose their projects following their interests, practices and inspirations they’ve experienced over the course of their degree.
They’re all so talented and some have already exhibited their work externally, received national awards or received job offers for when they graduate.
We’re all just so extremely proud of how they’ve developed and what they’ve achieved.”
With their final projects under their belt, the evening was also an opportunity to network with industry professionals.
Ben Sharpe, Senior Graphic Designer at Mitchell and Sons, and Solent alumni has attended every event since graduating.
Now a working professional himself he uses the event to head hunt the next generation of designers: “Since graduating I have made a conscious effort to keep an eye on the next wave of design talent.
I can trust the calibre of student at Solent and use the event to network.”
Family members were also in attendance to support their children, as they have continually done so over the last three years.
One parent commented on how their child had developed and changed so much over the last three years having found their calling.
Another reminisced how the family helped their daughter carry a mattress onto a cliff top in the cold, with Mum wearing a lampshade on her head for her daughter’s project.
Love and support come in many forms, and the event showed us this through multiple actions.
Hearing how family, friends, industry contacts, and staff were so proud of the students, we’d like to add that we’re proud of them too and thank everyone involved for their support in getting them over the line.
Some shows are on until 14 June, so don’t miss out.
Courses that took part in this fabulous showcase of student work include: BSc (Hons) Architecture and Design Technology , BA (Hons) Fashion Design , BA (Hons) Fashion Media , BA Hons) Fashion Management with Marketing , BA (Hons) Fashion Photography , BA (Hons) Fashion Styling and Creative Direction , BA (Hons) Fine Art , BA (Hons) Graphic Design , BA (Hons) Illustration , BA (Hons) Interior Design , BA (Hons) Interior Design Decoration , BA (Hons) Make-up and Hair Design , BA (Hons) Photography , BA (Hons) Prosthetics and Special Effects
Student work will be added to the course pages shortly, so watch this space.
Fashion, make-up and prosthetics

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/resos-clothes-swap-saves-nearly-200-items-from-landfill:
1 May 2024
Re:So, Solent University’s retail initiative, recently organised a clothes swap as part of Fashion Revolution Week – saving almost 200 items from landfill.
The event held in the Spark was the first clothes swap Re:So , has run since 2019, and had great engagement from students, staff and the general public with 174 items being donated for the event and 88 items being rehomed.
The day was also officially linked with John Lewis’ FashionCycle scheme, who were able to acquire 60 items to ‘send them off for a new life’ to be rehomed or recycled.
Lesley Taylor, Senior Lecturer and Department Lead for Re:So, said, “At the core of Re:So is the learning experience, and we were able to offer a fashion styling student some module related placement hours helping with set up, merchandising, displays and service to the visitors.
As a result, this placement student will be working with the Re:So team in the summer as a stylist for the next redesign of the store.“
The event was a first for the two Graduate Interns at Re:So who learned new procedures and helped to collate statistics from the day.
Graduate Intern, Shyanne Searley , said, “Clothes swaps are a very inclusive experience, anyone can partake in them and there is something very rewarding about it.
It was an enjoyable event showing a simple way to choose more sustainable options and was very well received by students and alumni alike.
People were enthusiastic to come and leave with some new additions to their wardrobe and many asked when we would be hosting the next one.”
Due to the success, the Re:So team have been quick to get a new clothes swap in the diary and will be holding the next one on 16 October 2024.
Be sure to get the date in your diary too so you don’t miss out.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/student-wins-national-retailer-award:
30 April 2024
Competing a in a national competition run by footwear retailer size?
and New Balance, one of our students won the coveted 'Student of the Year' award.
A Solent BA (Hons) Fashion Management with Marketing student, Aimee Biddle, recently won ‘Student of the Year’ in a competition run by footwear retailer, size?.
Their annual ‘Syllabus’ competition, sees creative universities from across the UK compete on a live marketing brief for New Balance’s ‘Made in the UK’ collection.
Module Leader, Joanne Gibson, said, "Working on a live brief alongside the teams at size?
and New Balance proved to be an invaluable experience for the students.
They showcased their creativity and ingenuity through a range of unique marketing ideas while gaining first hand exposure to industry pitching.
We are really proud of Aimee who won the 'Student of the Year' prize at the size?
syllabus awards ceremony in London."
We caught up with Aimee to find out more about the project and how it’s helped her with the course.
This was such a great project to work on and it was so exciting to have the opportunity to pitch our ideas to members of the team at size?
and New Balance.
The concept for my marketing pitch was to create an event pop-up based around the history and production at New Balance’s Flimby Factory where they make their Made in the UK shoes.
I was so pleased to have even been nominated for this award, it felt great to have been recognised for my hard work and creativity on this project.
I felt so honoured to have won the award, especially since everyone’s projects from Solent and the other universities were so great.
I felt as though my efforts had definitely paid off, and I felt very proud of myself.
Being given the opportunity by the course to liaise with the teams at size?
and New Balance was such a great help in developing my idea.
Without the guest lecturers and various opportunities to present my ideas I wouldn’t have been able to conceptualise my project in the way I did.
I’m very grateful our course provided those opportunities.
I feel as though my presentation skills have certainly developed throughout this process.
It’s still extremely nerve racking to present, especially to those who are working in the industry, however I have a newfound confidence due to the recognition I’d received through the great feedback and the award.
I would say that this process has developed my aspirations for a potential career within fashion marketing.
I thoroughly enjoyed the process of creating my marketing campaign despite the hard work and challenges I faced.
I could definitely see myself in a job that could foster my creativity within the marketing field!
To find out more about BA (Hons) Fashion Management with Marketing at Solent, visit the course page .
Solent University students part of the select few, present their research at Posters in Parliament

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/fine-art-students-container-exhibition:
24 April 2024
Our second year BA (Hons) Fine Art students took over Guildhall Square in Southampton’s Cultural Quarter, with a couple of shipping containers to showcase their unique end of year exhibition, ‘Introspective’ to the public.
The students worked as a team to put the whole exhibition together, resulting in an eclectic yet coherent showcase of their installations, sculptures, paintings, drawings and performance works.
They describe the exhibition as: “the artists expressing their innermost feelings, experiences and thoughts.
These talented artists have poured their hearts and souls into creating works that will invite you to reflect on your own inner thoughts, memories and experiences.
Some artworks offered moments of solace and tranquillity, providing a space for contemplation and inner peace, others provoked a sense of introspective nostalgia, transporting you back to meaningful moments from your life.”
Toby Taylor, whose practice is to work in as much of a sustainably conscious manner as possible, focused on mixed media work that consisted of mostly discarded recyclable materials.
Toby said, “The whole module has been a massive eye-opener.
It’s been tough, but it’s been a reality check of what it’s like to run something like this.
It reaffirms that you can participate in a group environment effectively as well as confirming that you can take pride in your work and use the opportunity to market yourself.”
Agata Adaszynska, a mature student from Poland, based her installation ‘15 Girls’ on Andrew Bissell’s book, ‘ Southampton’s Children of the Blitz’ .
She said, “Working with younger people has provided me with constructive feedback.
It’s been really useful to grow together in producing art.
We’re individuals, but we’re creating something together.
It’s been an amazing experience of exhibiting to the public and it has given me the motivation not to stop.
Even if they’re not into art, they like it.”
Having previously worked as a manager in IT, Agata decided to study something she loved when she moved to Southampton and is proud to show her artistic skills.
The course has inspired her to now pursue art as a career.
Module Leader, Sarah Filmer, said, “I am so proud of all the students.
This exhibition is the outcome of a module called ‘Collaboration’ in which we challenge the students to work together as a whole group to devise, design, market, promote, curate, install and invigilate an exhibition from scratch.
They have to dig deep, work incredibly hard, and learn a great deal about themselves and each other to succeed – and I think you will agree that ‘Introspective’ is a huge success.
Watching them stand proudly by their work and speak so confidently to the public about it is a joy.”
Final year BA (Hons) Fine Art students will be exhibiting their final pieces in the summer, so keep an eye out for more inspiring work.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/student-nurse-selected-for-nursing-council:
22 April 2024
Monica Basie, a student nurse at Solent University, has been selected by the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Integrated Care System to represent nursing students on their student council.
Monica Basie, a second-year student nurse on BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice , has secured a place on the new student council which has been set up for the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Integrated Care System (HIoWICS).
Monica will work alongside students and apprentices from other professions, staff from the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Integrated Care Board, HEIs, and care provider organisations within the integrated board system.
She will also have the opportunity to contribute to regional projects and meetings.
On securing the role, she said, "Supporting students means providing them with the information and encouragement they need to succeed academically, emotionally, and socially.
As a nursing student, I must support my other colleagues because we represent the future, and by empowering them, I contribute to the growth of future nursing."
Karen Hawksworth, course leader on BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice said, “We’re all very proud of Monica for being selected for this role in representing nursing students.
She’s an exceptional student and we’re in no doubt that her contributions will be valued by both students and professionals to help shape the future of nursing.”
BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice is one of our popular health and nursing degrees here at Solent, with students benefiting from our state-of-the-art Human Health Lab, including a replica real-world medical ward.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/blogs/fashion-revolutionaries:
16 April 2024
Fashion students, staff and alumni have been active in developing sustainable fashion initiatives as part of our circular fashion community
It’s Fashion Revolution Week, which is an annual global campaign bringing together fashion revolutionaries for a positive impact on the fashion industry.
Here at Solent, we actively encourage our students to think about sustainable fashion and concepts, inspiring them to think, challenge and create for a sustainable future.
Through the use of our fashion wardrobe for students to borrow pieces from, creating their final collections around sustainable concepts and using AI and other digital software in an innovative way for the industry, our students are doing it all.
Final year student, Luiza Osam-Gyaabin’s project, ‘ Reclaiming the Streets’ is inspired by abandoned cityscapes and street subcultures.
Luiza said “From the start, I knew I wanted to use elements of upcycled denim, but while reflecting on how to improve the designs I chose to make it as my main medium.
The majority of my collection is being made using donated clothes and deadstock fabric.
I think in the current economy and throw-away culture that fast fashion is hugely responsible for, it's important to take a step back.
We should focus on vintage and upcycling if we even want to have a future on our planet.” Luiza is using distressing, freehand embroidery, screen printing, sun-reactive dye printing, as well as airbrushing, to create textured and interesting surfaces.
As for the future, Luiza says “I hope that after graduation I will be able to continue working with upcycling and creating one-of-a-kind garments.
Or help finding a way how to introduce upcycling to mass-produced fashion.”
Emma Karlsson’s final project, ‘ Codependence’ is a collection looking at dependence and symbiosis in nature with a focus on sustainability.
It sees her using only natural sustainable fabrics, using undyed, British wool (fleece that she has made her own fabric with, as well as knitted yarn garments), organic and/or more sustainable fabrics and GOTS pigment inks.
She is currently working on a felted wool skirt and knitted jumper.
Our alumni have applied the sustainability ethos to drive their careers.
Alumnus, Olivia Clayton, developed the Gifted and Free app where subscribers can share and gift unused, unneeded clothing to those less fortunate.
Olivia also worked with local and national foodbanks to set up a service to share attire for celebrations and work interviews for those using the banks to support their families, and for homeless people unable to get a suitable wardrobe for work.
Lottie Griffiths created Thrifty magazine, available in print (on recycled paper) and on digital platform.
It showcases the thrifting community around the UK, focusing on young entrepreneurs upcycling and thrifting as a career, and giving tips for those wanting to get into thrifting.
The project built a huge community of both businesses and thrifters.
As part of her final project in 2020, Olivia Tuffrey developed a brand called Mad About Doin’ in association with upcycling and resale brand Depop, profiling the excellent creative businesses igniting the resale community.
Olivia’s project was chosen as one of five worldwide to feature in the Depop Now, Next programme.
This programme financially supported the establishment of the most innovative and creative sustainable projects to get off the ground as a real business.
Olivia is now on her 5 th edition.
Spearheading various projects and workshops to bring together students, industry professionals and local residents, Lecturer, Zoe McCarthy said “While there's a clear demand for sustainable alternatives, navigating them can be challenging.
Traditional fashion systems aren't built for rapid and affordable change.
It's easy to feel overwhelmed by global issues like climate change, even though we're constantly bombarded with information.
We care deeply, but investing in something new can be daunting without experiencing its benefits firsthand.
The good news?
We can start making a difference closer to home!
By focusing on local environmental issues and utilising existing resources, we can gain a better understanding of sustainability and pave the way for broader solutions.”
Zoe is leading research into innovative practice in industry and higher education and has just launched ‘Solent Conscious Collective’ (SoCoCo).
This initiative will focus on embedding ethical and sustainable thinking (and practice) across the university and in society through various projects and workshops that involve students, industry and local communities.
All these activities are part of our fashion courses: BA (Hons) Fashion and Beauty Media, BA (Hons) Fashion Design , BA (Hons) Fashion Management with Marketing , BA (Hons) Fashion Photography , BA (Hons) Fashion Styling and Creative Direction

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/strategy-2025/our-priorities:
In developing this strategy, we have reflected on our strengths as a university.
These provide the foundations on which we will build for the future.
All our endeavours are intrinsically founded in practice.
Our teaching, research and collaborations bring real world experiences to provide rich opportunities.
In this, we have always been, and are proud to continue to be, a practice-led university.
There can be no complacency, and it is important that we continue to develop our strengths while also pursuing new strategic opportunities.
Our strengths include:
Our excellent learning and teaching Our teaching, assessment and feedback methods are excellent, as recognised in our triple gold Teaching Excellence Framework award.
Our courses are centred in practice and infused with inclusive, real-world learning to prepare students for success in their chosen futures.
Our commitment to widening access and participation Through our regional work, we continue to build strong partnerships with schools, colleges, communities and third sector organisations.
Together, we are raising attainment and actively expanding and promoting study pathways.
Our exceptional levels of student support Our academic and pastoral support is exceptional and ensures that our students thrive throughout their time with us.
Whether our students need help with their studies, their finances, or starting their own business, we support our students to access the freedom to achieve.
Our dedication to impact-led research and innovation All our research is embedded in practice.
From raising awareness of the consequences of violence against women and girls to simulation models of the manoeuvrability of wind assisted cargo ships, impact is intrinsic to our approach.
We work closely with partners to ensure our process and outcomes have relevance and significance.
Our outstanding staff Our staff across all our campuses are the beating heart of Southampton Solent and our work is enriched by their diverse perspectives, willingness to collaborate and commitment to excellence.
Through their hard work, we deliver exceptional education, student experience, research, innovation, knowledge exchange, and services.
Our engaged student community Our students, wherever they choose to study a Southampton Solent University course, contribute to a rich and diverse community.
Through the practice-led skills and values they develop, our students make waves across the world.
Our connection to our city region Our work in creating economic and social benefits and promoting social justice for the communities we serve.
We are enriching our city-region with creative talent, supporting start-ups and encouraging diversity.
We are collaborating with partners to enhance our city and region’s reputation as a place to study, work, live, and thrive.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-areas/environment-and-engineering:
Laurie is an environmental scientist and leads Solent’s Environmental and Engineering research strategy.
He is also the director of our Centre for Marine Sustainability , which works on a range of projects for safer, sustainable seas.
Prior to joining Solent University in September 2013, he was a teaching fellow in carbon management at the University of Southampton.
The worldwide trade of goods at the scale and ease of today is only made possible by the global maritime industry.
The sector represents a unique platform for international collaboration in research to deliver global benefit to society and the environment.
To support this aim we launched the Centre for Marine Sustainability to coincide with COP 26 in November 2021.
The centre will tackle three key maritime sustainability themes: People; Technology, and Environment.
The IGNITE project is developing a scaled demonstration and training facility for remotely operated Maritime Autonomous Surface Ships (MASS).
Solent University is the only institution worldwide with both advanced manned model and simulation capability.
Working with leading experts, Wärtsilä the IGNITE project will innovatively link the manned model and simulation centres.
The project will enable complex simulation and training in real traffic interactions and high-risk manoeuvres in a safe and controlled environment.
The Seafarers’ Personal Protective Equipment project is run by Solent University in collaboration with CHIRP Maritime.
The project explores seafarers’ experiences of using personal protective equipment (PPE) on-board ships.
This project aims to explore the challenges faced by British seafarers as a result of the COVID 19 pandemic.
The project is run by Solent University in collaboration with Nautilus International and the Merchant Navy Welfare Board.
Solent University is part of a research and innovation collaboration that has been awarded almost €16 million to look at the options for green technology in the maritime industry.
With 43 observer partners, the project covers the UK, Belgium, Netherlands and France.
Starting in February 2019 the project will run until 2022, and aims to test and validate a number of technical tools and business models for the implementation of hybrid and hydrogen fuel cell technologies in ships and ports.
To help create healthier workplaces, health and safety professionals need better tools to investigate these issues.
That is why this project will develop a practical toolkit for collecting data about suspected work-related adverse health events.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-areas/human-function-and-health:
Unit of Assessment 24 embodies research-related activities associated with the investigation and evaluation of human function, health, and the social context.
This is a growing area of research enquiry, where interdisciplinary and collaborative partnerships are the underpinning basis of our research-related activity.
This exciting research area brings together the expertise of academics from health and exercise psychology, sports psychology, psychophysiology, exercise physiology, sociology of sport, biomechanics, physiotherapy, nursing and neuroscience.
Our Human Function and Health research area is led by Dr Shelley Duncan.
Shelley is a senior research fellow with expertise within the fields of cognitive and behavioural neuroscience and exercise physiology.
Shelley’s portfolio of research, partnership working with academic partners and community organisations, as well as her contributions to the academic community through contributions to peer review duties, course leadership of the postgraduate certificate in research methods, co-leadership of the Mind-body connections research group, and PhD supervision, underpins Shelley’s proactive approach to the development and leadership of Solent University’s sport and exercise science researchers, whose work concerns the evaluation of human function and health.
Senior Research Fellow

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-areas/media-culture-and-the-arts:
This vibrant research area brings together the expertise of academics in the following subject areas:
We returned 18 of our colleagues to REF21 Unit of Assessment 34: Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management.
The research area also includes 34 PGR students.
The multidiscipline nature of the area is demonstrated in a snapshot of research topics returned to REF:
Are you a Solent member of staff or postgraduate research student working in this area?
Join the Collaborative Team for Media, Culture and the Arts Researchers here to share your research, expand your network, and hear about publication, event and funding opportunities.
Screening Sex project: A better understanding of the representation of sex and sexual cultures
Agatha Christie: Widening knowledge and understanding of the world's best-selling novelist
Our Media, Culture and the Arts research area is led by Dr Donna Peberdy , Associate Professor of Performance, Sex and Gender, who is the doctoral coordinator for this area.
Based in the Southampton Film and Television School, Donna is course leader for MA Film Production .
Donna’s research focuses on screen acting and performance, gender, sexuality and the politics of identity.
Her research has been published in peer-reviewed journals Transnational Cinemas , Celebrity Studies , The New Review of Film and Television , Men & Masculinities and numerous edited collections.
She is co-director of www.screeningsex.com and co-convenes the Screening Sex scholarly interest group for the British Association for Film, Television and Screen Studies.
Donna was awarded a prestigious National Teaching Fellowship in 2020 in recognition of her approach to research-informed teaching.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-areas/social-research-and-policy:
Our team of social researchers comprise psychologists, sociologists, health professionals, and business and marketing professionals.
Current strands of research seek to inform social policy and concern:
AMPHORA
Seafarers' Personal Protective Equipment Project
The Forgotten Keyworkers
Our Social Policy research area is led by Dr Karen Burnell, Associate Professor of Applied Psychology and Chartered Research Psychologist.
Karen’s portfolio of funded research, partnership working with academic partners and community organisations, as well as her contributions to the academic community through contributions to expert review panels, peer review duties, and PhD supervision, make her well placed to develop and lead Solent University’s social researchers aligned to the REF Unit of Assessment 20, whose work concerns improving individual and community wellbeing through practice, provision, and policy.
Research Fellow

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/graduate-school/applying-for-a-research-degree:
Research degrees are advanced postgraduate programmes that involve independent research, supported by academic supervisors, that make an original contribution to knowledge or practice.
We offer three degrees, as outlined below.
Research degree awards offered by Solent University are:
* NB: successful completion of the transfer milestone does not confer an MPhil qualification which is a separate examination process.
Find out more about the doctoral research student journey at Solent University
Applicants to the MPhil/PhD or MRes apply for one of the following modes of study:
The University welcomes applications from international students who wish to study in the UK.
Find out more about support available to international students
Find out more about research areas at Solent University
The information here will help you complete your application.
Please select the award and mode that applies to you and refer to when to apply, below, for application deadlines.
You can apply to study for the research degree routes MPhil/PhD or MRes on either a full-time or part-time basis.
Applications for October 2025 entry have now closed.
Please check back for information and links to apply for October 2026.
If you have a research project in mind and wish to make an informal enquiry about developing it into a PhD proposal, you can contact staff in the relevant area or one of our doctoral coordinators .
Application process enquiries
General enquiries about completing the research degree application process at Solent University can be directed to:
Email: research.admissions@solent.ac.uk Tel: 023 8201 3207
The information below is for PhD only.
Please refer to the MRes page for more details on requirements for this course.
Please note: only complete applications with all the following documentation provided will be considered by the University.
To apply you will be required to complete the online application* and submit:
If you are applying for one of our funded studentships, please use the 'apply online for MPhil/PhD full-time/part-time' route.
In your supporting statement, please indicate which studentship you are applying for.
Find information on fees and funding for doctoral students
* You will find the online application process for your award and mode of study in the 'Make an application' section above.
** If your first language is not English, you will have an overall IELTS score of 6.5, with minimum sub-scores of 6.0 in all component sections, or an overall TOEFL IBT score of 94-95, with a minimum score of 22 in each of the four component sections.
If you have previously successfully studied for a first degree or master's degree that was taught and assessed in English you may be exempt from the above.
† The research proposal should be 2,000-4,000 words and include the following:
Applications may be submitted at any point during the year.
There is one entry point annually, in October.
To be considered for October, completed applications must be received by the last day in April of the same calendar year for MPhil/PhD.
For the MRes, follow the link to the MRes page above.
Find the correct application form for your preferred mode of study in the section above.
Applicants for an MPhil/PhD should hold at least one of the following:
a) a first or upper second class honours degree from a UK University or a qualification which may be deemed equivalent by NARIC* and the admissions review panel;
b) a master's degree from a UK University or a non UK qualification which may be deemed equivalent as above;
c) other qualifications, publications and/or appropriate professional training and experience which may be considered equivalent by the admissions review panel to one of the above.
* National Academic Recognition Information Centre
Full-time doctoral students can undertake work compatible with their studies for up to 6 hours per week if they wish to apply for any hourly paid teaching roles advertised by the University.
The University does not guarantee teaching opportunities for full-time doctoral students will become available, but does encourage students to check the University’s vacancies page if they are interested in gaining teaching experience.
Training for doctoral students in teaching skills may be available on request.
Once a completed application is received it is forwarded to the department doctoral coordinator(s), who will review it with members of the Doctoral Review Panel from the relevant research area.
In order to invite an applicant to an interview panel, the doctoral coordinator will need to be satisfied that
Applicants will receive an initial response from the University within 6-8 weeks from completion of the application.
Applicants who are invited to interview will normally receive notification of the outcome, and if successful a confirmation of offer letter from the Admissions office, no later than 12 weeks from completion of the application.
Offer letters will include:
All applicants who are successful at interview will also be contacted by the Graduate School team with further details of where and how to complete their registration, and when to attend a doctoral student induction session.
The induction session is mandatory for all new students to attend.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/graduate-school/funded-opportunities:
We specialise in challenge-led, solution-focused research and knowledge exchange.
Working alongside our academics, our postgraduate research students benefit from expertise at the forefront of disciplines.
Visit our research pages on Pure to learn about our academics' activities.
In your first year as a doctoral researcher, you will complete our Postgraduate Certificate in Research Methods.
This will provide you with a springboard to success in your doctoral studies, as well as a set of transferable skills applicable to a wide range of study and employment.
For an informal discussion contact research.admissions@solent.ac.uk
If you have a research project in mind and wish to make an informal enquiry around developing it into a PhD proposal, you can contact any academic member of staff in the relevant subject area.
This person might be the potential supervisor.
Discussing with them the potential project idea before you apply is vital to maximising the strength of your application.
You can apply to study for the research degree routes MPhil or MPhil/PhD on either a full-time or part-time basis.
Full details of what to include in your application can be found on our applications page .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/graduate-school/fees-and-funding:
The annual tuition fees for doctoral studies are linked to your mode of study (full- or part-time) and residential status.
The University reviews and sets tuition fees annually.
Each student is responsible for the payment of their fees.
If your fees are paid by a sponsor you will need to submit written proof of this annually in order to be eligible to re-enrol.
The University also provides information on funding and a training and development allowance.
See below for more details.
Find out more about doctoral student fees in the Graduate School SOL page.
* Full-time research students who are ‘writing-up’, prior to the submission of their thesis for examination, may pay an annual writing-up fee for a maximum of one year.
Part-time research students may pay an annual writing-up fee for a maximum of two years.
Both full and part-time research students will be eligible for a pro rata refund if they submit before the end of the academic year in which they are ‘writing-up’.
This writing-up period cannot exceed the maximum registration period of the degree registration.
Find out more about the registration periods for research degrees
If a research student subsequently fails to submit by the end of their ‘writing-up’ period and is eligible to continue their registration within the maximum registration period, they will again become liable for the full annual tuition fee appropriate to their mode of study.
If they submit before the end of the academic year they will be eligible to receive a refund as above.
Find out more about tuition fees and how to pay them
For information about writing-up and major amendments fees for UK, EU and Island students and EEA and International students please contact student.registry@solent.ac.uk
Students may be sponsored or self-funded for their fees and/or living expenses.
The University’s Finance pages hold information about various sources of funding for postgraduate studies.
Paying your fees, postgraduate funding, early payment discounts, alumni discounts and payment forms
The University may, from time to time, advertise funded doctoral degree studentships.
Studentships may be fully funded (fees, maintenance stipend, training allowance) or part funded (eg, fees only).
Stipends are normally aligned to the RCUK minimum stipend levels and will generally be disbursed on a quarterly basis to students.
Studentships will normally be advertised through findaphd.com or on the Solent website .
Studentships may also be advertised through other media as applicable.
The Guide has information on alternative sources of funding – especially charities – which can make awards (fees, maintenance, research costs) to any student regardless of subject or nationality.
Solent has a licence to the Guide, so it is free for all students and staff with a University log in to use.
The University provides support for research, including training in research skills and career development through the Researcher Development Programme (RDP), including tailored content in the Doctoral Training Programme.
Access to in-house training and development is free and students are encouraged to make full use of the resource available.
Find out more by exploring the researcher support pages .
Doctoral students are further supported by specific training to support their studies on the postgraduate research degree pages.
Staff and students can use the links to self-enrol on to the relevant courses in Solent Online Learning.
Go to the Researcher Development Programme on SOL
Go to the Postgraduate Research Degree course on SOL
Go to the Postgraduate Certificate in Research Methods course on SOL
Go to the Graduate School on SOL

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/graduate-school/milestones:
There are a number of milestones along the way to achieving your research degree.
Depending on the award you register for, you may be required to undertake the Transfer.
This is illustrated in the chart on the right.
Further on, we take you through the whole journey in detail, covering all the important milestones on your journey from registration to award of the degree.
Students who have registered for the MPhil/PhD and successfully transfer to the PhD award or who are registered for the PhD by Prior Publication will meet the following award criteria:
Produce a body of work that contains a significant and original contribution to knowledge in your chosen subject area, which is sufficiently important to merit publication.
Students who have registered for an MPhil award, or who have registered for the MPhil/PhD and exit at the transfer stage will meet the following award criteria:
Critically investigate and evaluate a topic, demonstrating an understanding of appropriate associated research methods.
You will need to show originality in the application of knowledge and problem solving, and also an understanding of how the boundaries of knowledge are advanced through research.
To ensure you are supported throughout your studies there are a number of monitoring points where you will be asked to present your work to reviewers.
The guidance notes and relevant forms which relate to each of these can be found on our Graduate School page on Solent Online Learning (SOL) .
Southampton Solent University staff only
More information about the registration periods
Enrolment and induction for doctoral students take place on a fixed date in October, which is the starting point for the registration period for every student.
In addition to arranging to meet with your supervision team and undertaking the Postgraduate Certificate in Research Methods course (see below), you must attend the induction event where you will receive information about how to plan for the key milestones and processes you will undertake throughout your doctoral student journey.
At the induction you will also receive information about the institutional resources and facilities, student support services, the research culture and a tour of the library.
You will also have an opportunity to meet doctoral student representatives who will share their experiences of studying at the University.
You will also get an introduction to the University’s online resources, support services and student representatives
From October 2021, all students starting their postgraduate research studies at Solent will undertake our Postgraduate Certificate in Research Methods (PG Cert) course during their first and second semesters.
Overview
Research methods, skills and understanding underpin successful postgraduate research study and degree completion.
The aim of this course is to introduce students to the key transferable skill set that they will be expected to fully acquire and apply in the course of their doctoral studies.
Features
This course is designed to equip those starting a PhD with the tools they will need for their studies.
It will take students to an understanding of how to identify a viable research question and design a programme of research that will make an original contribution to the literature.
In doing so, it enables students to critically review literature, introduces them to a range of methodological approaches, and equips the to professionally communicate their research to specialist and non-specialist audiences.
In addition to providing students with the foundation from which to succeed in their doctoral studies, these skills are transferrable to a range of other forums of study and employment.
Aims of the course
The course aims to:
Learning outcomes
On successful completion of the course, students will be able to:
In addition to the key milestone of transfer from MPhil to PhD, all doctoral students’ progress is monitored annually.
These reviews take place in May / June.
You will be required to submit evidence of your engagement with supervision and a record of your academic progress, which normally includes a record of work achieved in the previous 12 months, and a plan of work for the next 12 months.
See 'Guidance note 7: Annual monitoring on our SOL page.
If you initially registered for an MPhil with possibility to transfer to PhD and have satisfactorily completed all applicable monitoring requirement to that point, you can apply to transfer to PhD registration.
The transfer is an opportunity to take stock of your achievements to that point and to assess what needs to be done to complete your thesis.
The transfer process mirrors the final viva experience of presenting to and receiving feedback from experienced academics who are not part of your supervision team, so this is a valuable opportunity to prepare for your final examination experience.
At this stage you will be presenting a substantial body of work, normally between 10,000-20,000 words or equivalent portfolio.
Your goal is to establish that your research has the potential to meet the criteria for a PhD award within the timeframe, outlining the contextual rationale for your research, its aims and objectives.
Normally your transfer report will include a critical literature review, defence of your selected methodology, consideration of your findings to that point and an outline of your planned programme of study including a chapter by chapter outline to complete the research within the standard completion period.
See Guidance note 8: Transfer on our SOL page.
While you will normally have been writing constantly throughout your programme of study for your supervision team to review and provide feedback on your progress, the term ‘writing-up’ refers to the point at which you have completed your research and are now engaging in the final writing and revision of your thesis before submitting it for examination at the viva.
This stage of the research degree is eligible for reduced fees.
Normally, as a student approaches this stage the annual monitoring review panel will recommend that a student applies to ‘write-up’ when their next annual fee payment is due.
See Guidance note 9: Writing up on our SOL page.
Find out more about writing up fees
The viva voce is the formal defence of your research before a panel of examiners following the completion of your thesis.
Six months before your expected completion date you should begin discussing with your supervision team who the team will invite to act as external examiner.
Following these discussions your supervision team should complete the examination arrangements form and submit it to the doctoral support team as soon as possible so that arrangements for your viva examination can be made.
Once your viva examination panel has been nominated you must not approach your examiners prior to the viva.
When you have completed your thesis you will need to submit it for examination.
There are submission formalities which you will need to complete before your thesis is accepted as ready for examination.
As at the transfer review you must submit your work electronically via Turnitin and include the report with your thesis.
You must submit an electronic copy of your thesis, accompanied by a completed thesis declaration form, within the registration period for your award.
You may also be required to provide a hard copy in the format and binding specified in the University’s guidance.
The Graduate School team will make arrangements to forward your thesis to your examiners and will advise you when to attend for your viva examination.
Normally your viva will take place at least two to three months after you have submitted, this is to allow time for your examiners to read and carefully consider the merits of your research.
You can request to have one of your supervisors present at your viva, but they will be there as an observer and cannot contribute to the discussion.
It is entirely your choice whether you wish a supervisor to be present.
In addition to yourself and your examiners, your viva will be attended by an independent chair.
This is an experienced academic at the university who will be independent of your field of research.
They will not examine you but are present to ensure the examination is conducted with due regard to fair play and in compliance with the University’s regulations.
See Guidance note 10: Thesis/Portfolio submission and examination (viva) on our SOL page.
After the viva the examining panel will make a decision on whether they recommend that you receive the award.
The examiners can recommend one of these outcomes for the PhD viva:
Some of the above outcomes are not available for candidates being examined for the award of MPhil or PhD by Prior Publication.
Candidates should refer to the guidance note on submission and Viva in the doctoral student handbook.
Your examination panel may indicate a decision following the viva, but you will receive your formal notification from the Doctoral Support team after the examination panel have completed and submitted a formal report.
Award outcomes
Graduation ceremonies at the University take place in July.
Following your award you will be invited to the next scheduled graduation ceremony in your research subject.
Find out more about graduation at Solent

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/graduate-school/postgraduate-research-community:
All the Graduate School's postgraduate research students are aligned with (at least) one of our four research themes .
This means they are part of the community of active researchers within the University who are working across the spectrum of disciplines encompassed within that theme.
As a result, they are included in all that his happening within the community - from seminars to coffee mornings - and can access all its avenues for communication and support.
Doctoral students at Solent are supported by staff from across the University's academic departments and schools, as well as learning and information services.
Specialist advisers in the Student Hub also ensure you are fully supported throughout your doctoral studies.
Doctoral students have access to hot-desk working spaces in the doctoral researchers area where IT resources are available, including:
In addition, the Research Launchpad is an inviting and informal space available to all researchers at the University.
This space hosts many of the training sessions.
Researchers are welcome to book the launchpad for meetings, planning sessions and workshops, or use it on a drop-in basis (when available) for informal meetings or catching up over lunch.
All Solent's doctoral students are also part of our research communities within the Graduate School and the faculty or school and research theme they are aligned to.
This provides them with exciting, dynamic and supportive multi-disciplinary learning environment.
Doctoral students are also supported by the Graduate School team in the Research Office who are always happy to help and to answer questions about the research journey, processes and forms.
Contact details
Research Office, room A223 Solent University East Park Terrace Southampton SO14 0YN
Telephone: 023 8201 3207 Email: research.degree@solent.ac.uk .
Solent University research students can access specialist services for students through Student Support
The Student Hub is a centrally located student information area in The Spark which acts as a source of information and support.
Services range across all aspects of student life, from obtaining a council tax exemption certificate, to seeking advice on disability support from, and from accessing counselling services to getting guidance on visas from the team or speaking to a funding adviser.
Student welfare
Doctoral students are expected to participate fully and to take responsibility for planning their research - this includes following safety codes and advice scrupulously.
All doctoral students are required to review health and safety aspects relating to their programme of study with their supervision team with their supervision team and report this at Annual Monitoring ( see guidance note )
Doctoral students whose research necessitates they engage in periods of study offsite may be required to complete a risk assessment form and students whose research requires that they undertake periods of research outside the UK will need to contact the International Office for advice on completing an overseas risk assessment with the support of their supervision team.
In addition, UKVI regulations require international students to inform the University whenever they are not in the UK.
Contact the Doctoral Support Team at research.degrees@solent.ac.uk for further guidance on this requirement.
Induction
All new doctoral students are required to attend an Induction event when they enrol, introducing them to the resources and services they can access at Solent.
Find out more about induction
Online resources
Detailed information about the Graduate School and its resources, and about the Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert) in Research Methods course and its modules are on our Solent Online Learning (SOL) pages.
Researcher development programme
Solent’s Researcher Development Programme (RDP) offers a range of opportunities to develop research, professional and personal skills.
The programme is designed to be flexible and responsive, helping you to design a development route to suit your needs.
With a range of subjects and delivery methods, you can choose the activities which are right for you at each stage of your researcher development.
In addition to face to face sessions, postgraduate researchers can also access our online training materials and webinars, supplied in partnership with the University of East Anglia and Angel Productions.
Every doctoral student is entitled to apply for up to £500 in each academic financial year (1 August - 31 July) to undertake research development activities.
Please talk to your supervisory team if you are considering applying and see the application form for further details.
Library resources
Our librarians can support you with inter-library loans, arranging SCONUL access to other university libraries, using referencing software and many other enquiries.
Research ethics
As a doctoral student you will need to consider whether there are any ethical implications of your research.
In addition to receiving advice from your supervisory team, you can access guidance and links to the University's application processes for ethical review.
It is expected that research degree students (level 8) will have an advanced understanding of research integrity.
They will demonstrate the highest standards in their acknowledgement of the work of others and in the presentation of their own research data.
Work submitted for feedback from your supervision team, as well as at formal progression points along your research programme, will need to meet these standards.
It is your responsibility to familiarise yourself with the referencing and research data conventions appropriate to your field of research.
Vitae is an organisation providing support for the professional development of researchers.
Their website includes news and events of interest to researchers looking to improve their overall professional development.
Additionally Vitae has developed the online Researcher Development Framework planner app to which Solent subscribes.
This app can help you to map your professional development as a researcher.
If you would like to explore the planner as part of your development programme contact research.degree@solent.ac.uk and ask for an institutional log in.
The Electronic Thesis Online Service (eTHos) is hosted by the British Library and searches across over 300,000 theses for free.
You can order full text quickly and easily using the eTHos website .
We value your feedback and are keen to learn from you where there are areas for enhancement that we can address and about the areas we do well.
Solent University’s Research Degrees Committee (RDC) is responsible to the Academic Board of the University for the effectiveness of the University’s postgraduate research provision.
PGR students are represented on the RDC by a full-time and part-time student cohort representative.
Your representatives are:
If you have any ideas or questions relating to enhancing PGR student experience please let your representative know.
You can also contact your School doctoral coordinator, and the Students’ Union offers a wide range of general support and representation.
Find out more about the RDC
You can also contact your doctoral coordinator
Visit the Solent’s Students’ Union website
Postgraduate research students are supported throughout their studies by a specialist supervision team formed of motivated, dedicated, and experienced academic staff.
They will guide you through your research degree and ensure that your studies are underpinned by excellent pastoral and administrative support.
Supervision is a partnership between supervisor and student.
Both partners have rights and responsibilities, which are outlined in the guidance notes.
A supervisory team will be comprised of two to three supervisors.
One of the supervisors will be appointed as the Director of Studies (DoS) who has overall responsibility for guiding the student through the various milestones of the doctoral student journey.
In addition, all doctoral students are assigned to a doctoral coordinator , whose role is to maintain oversight of the quality of the PGR student experience in their area.
The doctoral students, supervision team, and doctoral coordinators are all supported by the doctoral support team .
Supervisory meetings
Students’ needs for supervision can vary depending on the rate of their progress, where they are in the life-cycle of their research project, and by the nature of their discipline.
Based on regular review of these factors, there should be explicit agreement between supervisors and their doctoral students on the frequency of supervisory meetings.
As a minimum, full-time students should meet with their supervisors at least nine times per year, and part-time students at least seven times per year.
A written record of each supervisory meeting must be kept.
This record must be agreed between the student and the supervisors present at the meeting and must include the date, subjects discussed, and agreed outcomes and actions (including completion dates).
Copies of the supervisory meetings records must submitted by the doctoral student at the relevant monitoring points in each academic session.
These form part of the annual monitoring process for doctoral student progression.
Supervisor development and resources
Supervisors are active researchers and are expected to be active in terms of their own Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
New supervisors are required to attend the University’s supervisor training provided through the Researcher Development Programme and all supervisors are required to regularly refresh their training and maintain currency on the University’s policies and regulations governing research degrees.
Training sessions are run in both the Autumn and Spring on topics including:
Supervisors are encouraged to join the UKCGE – Postgraduate Research Supervisors Network .
This is a national network with links to online videos, blogs, events and other resources for doctoral supervisors.
Supervisors at Solent University have access to a dedicated online support area, and are encouraged to share good practice.
This space also hosts training materials and other resources.
Training, support and materials for supervisors
Doctoral coordinators
The doctoral coordinators are experienced supervisors and oversee all aspects of the research student experience.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/graduate-school/support-and-guidance:
Please visit our Graduate School page on Solent Online Learning (SOL) where you will find guidance notes and links to the forms you will need to complete during the course of your postgraduate research at Solent.
The University has policies and guidance in place to ensure the environment and experience of research students is supportive for their research and learning.
The environment for postgraduate research degrees is underpinned by the Research and Knowledge Exchange Sub-Strategy
Research and Knowledge Exchange Sub-Strategy 2025
The University reviews and updates its regulations annually.
The current regulations are published at the beginning of each academic year and can be read here.
Students are advised to always consult the regulations for the year in which they are currently registered.
Regulations for Postgraduate Research Students
Postgraduate researchers must consider their responsibilities for their research data in relation to the Data Protection Act 2018 and the General Data Protection Regulation .
Solent's ethics policy
The Intellectual Property Office
For Solent University intellectual property rights policy please contact research.innovation@solent.ac.uk
The University Academic Board retains responsibility for the effectiveness of the arrangements for safeguarding the academic standards of awards and enhancing the quality of postgraduate research provision.
It delegates responsibility for overseeing the University’s research degree provision to the Research Degrees Committee (RDC) and for the University’s research strategy to the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/graduate-school/masters-by-research-mres:
Are you interested in a career in research?
Or do you have questions about your professional practice?
Through this MRes you’ll develop knowledge and skills in research methods, plan and lead your own research project, and have an opportunity to further develop your research career for a range of different sectors.
This Master’s by Research is a research degree, which means that you will develop skills by carrying out an independent research project, rather than being taught research methods.
Instead, you will develop research skills along with specialist subject knowledge as you complete your project.
This combination will allow you to answer some of society’s most pressing questions.
This course will provide you with a solid grounding in research methods and experience of planning and managing unique projects, with real world answers.
On this course, you won’t produce a dissertation.
Instead, you will complete a series of real-world tasks, such as preparing funding applications, presenting research, and writing journal articles.
This creates a portfolio of work for you to take forward.
You might even get a chance to publish your work.
Through one-to-one supervision and engagement with Solent’s Researcher Development Programme , you’ll gain the necessary skills to conduct independent research in the future.
As such, the MRes also provides a good foundation for anyone interested in pursuing PhD study.
This course will be of interest to anyone who wishes to learn more about the research process and how evidence is generated.
You may be a practitioner wishing to conduct research in your area of practice now and in the future, or you may be considering a career in academic research.
You’ll also have an opportunity to carry out research relevant for your workplace or professional area as a part of your studies.
And you can choose to study full-time for one year, or part-time for two years.
The skills acquired on this course are an asset for a range of sectors where research and evidence generation are critical.
You will receive a Master’s By Research (MRes) in your chosen discipline, which will prepare you for a wide range of roles after graduation.
Applications have now closed.
If you have any questions about your application, please contact: research.admissions@solent.ac.uk .
The start date for both full- and part-time is 1 October 2025.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/independent-review-of-university-spin-out-companies:
Solent University is committed to adopting the best practices from the Independent Review of University Spin-out Companies.
We fully support the Review's recommendations and are dedicated to enhancing our commercialisation approach through spin-outs, as outlined in the Review.
Our growing commercialisation portfolio is therefore designed to:
The independent review, led by the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology and HM Treasury, offers essential recommendations to boost the creation and growth of university spin-out companies, aiming to make the UK a global leader in commercialising university research.
We therefore recognise the USIT Guide's value in improving spin-out efficiency and speed and are committed to undertaking a thorough review of our practices in this field and we are committed to continuously refining our processes to align with these guidelines.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff/academic/laurie-wright:
Warsash Maritime School
Dr Laurie Wright is Associate Professor and Director of the Centre for Marine Sustainability at Southampton Solent University, where he leads a team conducting ground-breaking research in maritime innovation and marine sustainability.
Over the past few years, Laurie has secured multiple prestigious research grants, including the University’s first-ever Research Council award, a milestone that has significantly strengthened Solent’s reputation in maritime research.
Beyond his research efforts, Laurie has acted as University Research Lead since 2021, serving as a member of the University’s REF2021 leadership, which resulted in a marked transformation of the university’s research profile.
He continues to play a pivotal role in shaping Solent’s research strategy and culture, overseeing the REF2029 submission, leading by example and mentoring early-career academics in securing funding and delivering high-impact research.
Additionally, Laurie supports the graduate school in his capacity as doctoral coordinator and Deputy Chair of the Research Degrees Committee.
He serves the wider university as Chair of the Ethics and Integrity Committee, ensuring best practice across the institution.
This commitment underscores his dedication to fostering a culture of integrity and an inclusivity in research.
Through his expertise and visionary leadership, Laurie remains instrumental in driving innovative solutions, forging high-impact collaborations, and sustaining growth in maritime research at Solent University, while nurturing an inclusive environment that empowers colleagues at all career stages to explore their creativity and expand their research, knowledge, and engagement profiles.
Laurie contributes to a number of courses with a particular focus on sustainable management and leadership, resource management, and life cycle thinking.
Laurie's research focuses on the sustainability of industry environment interactions, particularly in marine and maritime.
Current and recent projects address practical issues, such as:
Laurie is a regular reviewer for a range of peer-reviewed journals.
Laurie has contributed to a number of publications in the field of sustainability.
Plastic warms the planet twice as much as aviation - here's how to make it climate friendly
If robots take our jobs, what will it mean for climate change?
Automation and robotics could have a surprising impact on climate crisis
For a full list of Laurie's publications, see Google Scholar Citations
Laurie is current working on the Port Energy and Carbon Savings (PECS) and Implementation of Ship Hybridisation (ISHY) research projects.
Ports Energy and Carbon Savings (PECS)
The PECS project is an international cooperative project, funded by the Interreg 2 Seas Program, involving knowledge institutions, port authorities, industry and public authorities.
The project is developing and testing tools and technologies to reduce the carbon footprint of SME ports and marinas through energy savings.
Implementation of Ship Hybridisation (ISHY)
The ISHY project is an international collaboration funded by the Interreg 2 Seas Program that has been awarded almost €16 million to look at the options for green technology in the maritime industry.
The project aims to test and validate a number of technical tools and business models for the implementation of hybrid and hydrogen fuel cell technologies in ships and ports.
2016 - American Center for Life Cycle Assessment (ACLCA) Academic Leadership in LCA Award
2014 - C40 Cities Climate Leadership Award for Carbon Measurement and Planning, Member of Steering Group that developed BSI PAS 2070

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff/academic/shelley-duncan:
Department of Sport and Health
Shelley is a senior research fellow in the Department of Sport and Health and Associate Head of the Department of Sport and Health.
Her area of expertise is within the field of cognitive and behavioural neuroscience, specifically in the use of electroencephalography to evaluate the relationship between electrical activity of the brain and behaviour.
Shelley’s PhD was completed at Victoria University, Melbourne, Australia, which involved the evaluation of the influence of acute bouts of exercise (aerobic and resistance) on cognitive function, including both behavioural (task completion time) and electro-cortical patterns of activity during the performance of a locomotive dual-task paradigm.
Shelley’s background also includes completion of a Bachelor of Physical Education and Health, Postgraduate Diploma in Exercise Rehabilitation, and an MSc (first-class honours) which evaluated the influence of glycogen depletion and fatigue on visual performance, at the University of Auckland, New Zealand.
Shelley’s key areas of interest are the development of research paradigms that enable the evaluation of cognitive and physical function.
Specifically within the areas of ageing and neurological disease, and the assessment of the influence of exercise interventions upon cognitive and physical function.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff/academic/donna-peberdy:
Department of Film and Media
Donna undertook a studentship-funded PhD at the University of Nottingham, completing in 2009.
She joined Solent University in 2007, during which time she has been course leader of the successful undergraduate (BA Film and Television 2009-2020; BA Film 2020-present) and postgraduate (MA Film Production 2018-present) programmes.
Donna was appointed University Teaching and Learning Fellow in 2010 and led on numerous cross-university pedagogic initiatives, including establishing the University’s teaching and learning conference, peer practice exchange scheme and championing research-informed teaching and undergraduate research.
Donna was awarded a National Teaching Fellowship in 2020 in recognition of transforming the student experience through creative, experiential, and authentic teaching, learning and assessment design.
In 2020, Donna was appointed the University Research Lead for Media, Culture and the Arts, leading UoA34 (Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management) for Solent’s Research Excellence Framework return and is doctoral coordinator for the subject area.
Donna is the the author of Masculinity and Film Performance: Male Angst in Contemporary American Cinema (Palgrave Macmillan 2011), awarded Outstanding Academic Title by Choice (American Library Association); and has published widely on screen acting and performance, sex, gender and masculinity.
She edited a special issue on acting and performance for Transnational Cinemas (now Transnational Screens ) in 2014.
Her co-edited collection, Tainted Love: Screening Sexual Perversion , was published by I.
Tauris in 2017.
Donna is the co-director of the Screening Sex project, which has established an international research network, blog, a special interest group for the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies.
She is co-editor of the Screening Sex book series, published with Edinburgh University Press and is currently co-editing the first two titles in the series – two volumes examining the sex scene in film, television and culture.
Since 2018, Donna has been a member of the jury and selection committee for 16Days16Films, the first ever UK female film competition on gender violence and collaboration between Modern Films, UK SAYS NO MORE, Hestia and the Kering Foundation.
Donna’s main research interests concern acting and performance, masculinity, sex and gender in contemporary film, television and American culture, identity politics and representation.
Her wider interests include stardom and celebrity, classical Hollywood, film noir, dystopian and utopian fiction.
Donna’s current research concerns representations of sexual harassment and rape in contemporary film and television drama.
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1925-433X
Donna has been awarded a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship to pursue her research project ‘Screening Sexual Violence: Silence Breaking and Performance Activism Post #MeToo’ in 2024.
The 12-month fellowship will be dedicated to a comprehensive analysis of current ways sexual violence is depicted on screen, assessing the role of film and television shaping public understanding.
Donna’s monograph Masculinity and Film Performance: Male Angst in Contemporary American Cinema was awarded Outstanding Academic Title by Choice (American Library Association) in 2012 in recognition of excellence in presentation and scholarship, importance to other literature in the field, and originality or uniqueness of treatment.
Donna was awarded a National Teaching Fellowship in 2020 in recognition of outstanding impact on student outcomes and the teaching profession in higher education.
MA Film Production – Course Leader (2018-present)
BA (Hons) Film Production – Course Leader (2020-present)
BA (Hons) Film and Television – Course Leader (2009-2020)
Donna is currently supervising PhD students working on masculinity and race in contemporary British and American literature and culture, social media language, identity and performance, online film activism and socio-cultural change.
Donna welcomes PhD applications and email enquiries from prospective students in any area that relates to her research interests.
Further information may be obtained from the Solent Graduate School.
Kerr, D.
and Peberdy, D.
2017.
Tainted Love: Screening Sexual Perversion .
London: I.B.
Tauris.
Peberdy, D.
2009.
Masculinity and Film Performance: Male Angst in Contemporary American Cinema .
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
2019.
Sorry I couldn’t be here: Performative Celebrity Meltdown and Para-Stardom.
Celebrity Studies , 10(4), special issue: Where is the Star?
559-573.
2014.
Narrative Trans-actions: Cloud Atlas (2012) and Multi-role Performance in the Global Ensemble.
Transnational Cinemas 5(2), special issue: All the World’s a Stage, 167-180.
All the World’s a Stage: Global Players and Transnational Film Performance.
Transnational Cinemas 5(2), special issue: All the World’s a Stage, 95-97.
2013.
Playing with the Self: Celebrity Autoerotic Asphyxiation.
Celebrity Studies 4(1), special issue: Sex and Celebrity, 58-70.
2012.
‘I’m just a character in your film’: Acting and Performance in the films of Wes Anderson.
The New Review of Film and Television Studies 10(1), 46-67.
2010.
From Wimps to Wild Men: Bipolar Masculinity and the Paradoxical Performances of Tom Cruise.
Men & Masculinities 13(2), 231-254.
Peberdy D.
2007.
Tongue-tied: Film and Theatre Voices in David Mamet’s Oleanna.
Screening the Past 21, special issue: Cinema/Theatre: Beyond Adaptation.
2023.
Representing Shitty Media Men and Casting Couch Culture: Film and Television’s Fictional Reckoning with #MeToo, Sexual Harassment and Assault.
In: J.
Mercer and M.
McGlashan, eds.
Toxic Masculinity: Men, Meaning and Digital Media .
London: Routledge.
2022.
‘Grab them by the pussy’: The Sexual Politics of Touch in The Handmaid’s Tale .
In: K.
McNally.
ed.
American Television During a Television Presidency .
Detroit: MI: Wayne State University Press.
A Dangerous Method: Provocative Performances of Perversion.
In: D.
Kerr and D.
Peberdy, eds.
Tainted Love: Screening Sexual Perversities .
2015.
The New Hollywood: 1981-1999.
In: C.
Springer and J.
Levinson, eds.
Acting .
Piscataway, NJ: Rutgers University Press.
Acting and Performance in Film Noir.
In: A.
Spicer and H.
Hanson, eds.
A Companion to Film Noir .
Oxford: Blackwell.
Male Sounds and Speech Affectations: Voicing Masculinity.
Jaeckle, ed.
Film Dialogue .
London: Wallflower Press.
‘Politics is theater’: Performance, Sexuality and Milk.
In: T.
Shary, ed.
Millennial Masculinity: Men in Contemporary American Cinema .
Detroit, MI: Wayne State University Press.
Michael Douglas: An Ordinary Man.
Everett, ed.
Pretty People: Movie Stars of the 1990s .
Chapel Hill, NC: Rutgers University Press.
Transnational Cinemas 4.1.
Special Issue: Acting and Performance [guest editor]
2021.
Joaquin Phoenix: Para-Stardom and the Performance of Recalcitrance.
Society for Cinema and Media Studies Conference (SCMS), March.
Virtual.
Screeningsex.com: Research, Engagement and Public Scholarship.
Screen Cultures: The Private, the Personal, the Communal: Intimate Materialities of Screen Consumption.
Birmingham City University, 27 November.
Screeningsex.com: Research, Impact and Public Scholarship in the UK.
Going Public: Scholar-Activists and the Practice of Communicating Beyond the Ivory Tower.
International Communications Association Conference.
Washington DC, May.
The Screening Sex Project: Developing a Charter for Arts and Cultural Organisations.
Southampton Cultural City Conference.
Southampton Solent University, May 2019.
Screening Sex: Research, Sexual Cultures and Public Engagement,” Round table, Conference for the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies, Birmingham, April 2019.
‘You can’t help what you feel but you can help how you behave’: Sex, Performance and the Haptic in The Handmaid’s Tale .
Society for Cinema and Media Studies (SCMS), Seattle, Washington, March.
Portals, Phones and Puppetry: In Search of Good Sex in Smart Cinema.
Radboud Honours Academy, Lux Cinema Nijmegen, The Netherlands, 20 April.
Narrative Trans-actions: Cloud Atlas and Performance in the Global Ensemble.
Revisiting Star Studies: International Conference, Newcastle University, 12-14 June.
Media and Cultural Studies @ NTU: 21 Years – the past, the present, the future, Nottingham Trent University, 8 February.
“In Brief?
Short Film Performance,” SCREEN Conference, Glasgow, July.
2011.
Speechless: Short Film Performance.
The Popular Culture Association of Australia and New Zealand (popCAANZ) Conference, Auckland NZ, June.
‘When will I be normal?’ The Gendered Performance of Sexual Perversion.
SCMS, New Orleans, March.
Embodying Evil, Performing Paedophilia.
Film & History Conference, Milwaukee, November.
‘You commie, homo-loving sons of guns’: Performance, Sexuality, Hollywood and Milk.
SCMS, Los Angeles, March.
Truth, Lies and Affectations: Voicing Masculinity.
The Popular Culture Association/American Culture Association (PCA/ACA) Conference, New Orleans, April.
2008.
Male Sounds: Gender, Genre, Voice.
SCREEN Conference, Glasgow, July.
2006.
Performing the Wild Man in 1990s Masculinity Crisis Narratives.
SCMS, Vancouver, March.
2005.
From Wimps to Wild Men.
Association for Research into Popular Fictions Annual Conference: Open to View: Popular Fiction and Visual Narrative, Liverpool John Moores University, November.
British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies
Society for Cinema and Media Studies (member)
PhD Film (University of Nottingham, 2008)
MA Cinema Studies (Distinction) (Nottingham Trent University, 2003)
BA (Hons) Media and Cultural Studies (First Class) (Nottingham Trent University, 2002)
www.screeningsex.com
British Association for Film, Television and Screen Studies, Special Interest Group: Screening Sex
Culture, Media, Space and Place Research Group

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff/academic/karen-burnell:
Department of Social Sciences and Nursing
Karen is an Associate Fellow of the British Psychological Society, Chartered Psychologist by Research, and an experienced research leader.
At Solent, Karen is also the University Research Lead for Social Research and Policy as well as Course Leader for MRes Psychology.
Karen also supervises PhD students and is Doctoral Coordinator for PGR students whose work concerns social policy.
After graduating with a First Class degree in 2003 from University of Southampton, Karen successfully applied for a 1+3 ESRC postgraduate award to complete an MSc Research Methods in Psychology, followed by a PhD, which she completed in 2007.
Her thesis was a narrative inquiry entitled ‘The Reconciliation of Traumatic War Memories throughout the Adult Lifespan: The Relationship between Narrative Coherence and Social Support’.
Since 2007, Karen has worked as a research assistant post at the University of Reading, a postdoctoral research associate at UCL from 2008-2011, a lecturer, and then senior lecturer at University of Portsmouth from 2011-2018.
Karen joined Solent University in the summer of 2018.
Karen specialises in applied psychology, with a particular focus on veteran studies, psychogerontology, mental health and wellbeing, and research methodologies.
Over the years, Karen has explored the role of social support in mental health and wellbeing and, more specifically, peer support.
At the heart of all of Karen’s research is the exploration of informal support networks and psychosocial interventions.
While predominantly engaged with qualitative methods, Karen also has experience of designing and managing complex Randomised Controlled Trials to evaluate psychosocial interventions, as well as evaluation more broadly.
Karen, is currently exploring how heritage can impact mental health and wellbeing, and has recently co-edited one of the first interdisciplinary books on the topic: Archaeology, Heritage, and Wellbeing: Authentic, Powerful, and Therapeutic Engagement with the Past .
Karen’s research has been funded by the ESRC, Forces in Mind Trust, Alzheimer’s Society, Age UK, and the MARCH Network (a UKRI funded network).
Karen is also a member of the Expert Review Panel and Steering Group for the Forces in Mind Trust’s Mental Health Research Programme and acts as Secretary to the panel for the British Society of Gerontology’s Averil Osborn Award for Participatory Research.
Karen is a member of the Editorial Board for the journal Quality in Ageing and Older People, and regularly peer reviews for European Journal of Psychotraumatology, Journal of Military and Veterans' Health, Qualitative Methods in Psychology, Pilot and Feasibility Studies, Ageing and Society, The Lancet, Aging and Mental Health, Psychology and Psychotherapy: Theory, Research and Practice, Cochrane, and JBI Evidence Synthesis.
Karen also holds an Honorary Senior Lectureship at City, University of London.
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5328-2601
Mental health, wellbeing, research methods, psychosocial interventions, social research, social policy,
Karen has a strong track record in attracting research funding, and a strong commitment to collaborative work.
Karen has a broad range of teaching both undergraduate and postgraduate students, as well as supervising and examining PhD candidates.
To date, Karen has supervised eight PhD students to successful completion, as well as supervising MRes students in a range of disciplines.
Karen’s teaching profile concerns mainly qualitative methodologies as well as communication skills.
Karen has taught psychology and social work students at both UG and PG level, as well as Professional Doctorate students from a range of backgrounds.
Karen’s current PhD students:
Everill, P., Murgulia, N., Bennett, R., Lomitashvili, D., & Burnell, K.
(Accepted/In press).
Authentic and therapeutic engagement with the past for veterans at Nokalakevi, Georgia, and on Breaking Ground Heritage projects in the UK.
Arheologia.
Gordon, K., Burnell, K., Wilson, C.
(2020).
Outside the military “bubble”: Life after service for UK ex-Armed Forces Personnel.
Frontiers in Psychology, 8(50).
doi:10.3389/fpubh.2020.00050
Everill, P., Bennett, R., & Burnell, K.
Dig in: an evaluation of the role of archaeological fieldwork for the improved wellbeing of military veterans.
Antiquity, 94(373), 212-227.
doi:10.15184/aqy.2019.85
Burnell, K.
J., Needs, A., & Gordon, K.
(2017).
Exploring the suitability and acceptability of peer support for older veterans.
Quality Research in Ageing, 18(2), 120-130.
Gorczynski, P., Burnell, K., Dewey, A., & Costello, J.
Teaching evidence-based synthesis: an examination of the development and delivery of two innovative methodologies used at the University of Portsmouth.
Journal of Evidence-Based Medicine, 10(1), 11-15.
Charlesworth, G., Burnell, K, Crellin N., Hoare, Z., Hoe, J., Knapp, M., Russell, I.
T., Wenborn, J., Woods, B., Orrell, M.
(2016).
Peer support and reminiscence therapy for people with dementia and their family carers: a factorial pragmatic randomised trial.
Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry, 87(11), 1218-1228.
Burnell, K, Selwood, A., Sullivan, T., Charlesworth, G., Poland, F.
and Orrell, M.
(2015).
Involving service users in the development of the Support at Home: Interventions to Enhance Life in Dementia Carer Supporter Programme for family carers of people with dementia.
Health Expectations, 18(1), 95-110.
ISSN 1369-6513 10.1111/hex.12012
Burnell, K., Needs, A., Murdoch, N., & Gordon, K.
(2014).
Effectiveness of peer support for older veterans of the Armed Forces: an evidence summary.
PROSPERO 2014:CRD42014009876 Available from http://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/display_record.asp?ID=CRD42014009876
Brooks, A., Farquharson, L., Burnell, K., Charlesworth, G.
A Narrative Enquiry of Experienced Family Carers of People with Dementia Volunteering in a Carer Supporter Programme.
Journal of Community & Applied Social Psychology, 2.
Gordon K, Burnell K, Wilson C.
(2013).
Experiences in the war zone, shared narratives and changing identities: Systematic review of qualitative research.
Psychology and Health, 28(S1:1), 222-222
Charlesworth, G.
M., Burnell, K.
J., Hoe, J., Russell, I.
T., & Orrell, M.
Acceptance Criteria for Clinical Effectiveness Pilot Trials (ACCEPT): Introducing a systematic approach for assessing pilot RCTs.
BMC Medical Research Methodology, 13:78 doi:10.1186/1471-2288-13-78
Toot, S., Hoe, J., Ledgerd, R., Burnell, K, Devine, M.
(2013) Causes of crises and appropriate interventions: the views of people with dementia, carers and healthcare professionals.
Aging & Mental Health, 17 (3).
328.335.
ISSN 1360-7863 10.1080/13607863.2012.732037
Burnell, K, Charlesworth, G., Feast, A., Hoe, J., Poland, F.
(2012) Peer support interventions for family carers of adults with chronic mental or physical illness who are living at home (Protocol).
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (11).
ISSN 1469-493X 10.1002/14651858.CD010231
Charlesworth, G., Burnell, K., Beecham, J., Hoare, Z., Hoe, J., Knapp, M., Russell, I., Wenborn J., Woods, B., Orrell, M.
(2011).
Peer support for family carers of people with dementia, alone or in combination with group reminiscence in a factorial design: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
Trials 12:205.
Aguirre E., Spector A., Streater A., Burnell K., Orrell M.
Service users' involvement in the development of a maintenance Cognitive Stimulation Therapy (CST) programme: A comparison of the views of people with dementia, staff and family carers.
Dementia: The International Journal of Social Research and Practice, 10(4), 459-473
Burnell K., Boyce N., & Hunt N.
A good war?
Exploring British veterans’ moral evaluation of deployment.
Journal of Anxiety Disorders, 25(1), 36-42.
J., Coleman, P.
G., & Hunt, N.
(2010).
Coping with traumatic memories: WWII veterans’ experiences of social support in relation to narrative coherence of war memories.
Ageing and Society, 30(1), 57-78.
J., Hunt, N., & Coleman, P.
G.
(2009).
Developing a model of narrative analysis to investigate the role of social support in coping with traumatic war memories.
Narrative Inquiry, 19(1), 91-105.
(2006).
Using narrative analysis to investigate the role of social support in the reconciliation of traumatic war memories.
Health Psychology Update, 15(3), 37-40.
Falklands War Veterans’ perceptions of social support and the reconciliation of traumatic war memories.
Aging and Mental Health, 10(3), 282-289.
Everill, P., & Burnell, K.
(Eds.) (Accepted/In press).
Archaeology, Heritage, and Wellbeing: Authentic, Powerful, and Therapeutic Engagement with the Past.
Routledge.
https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003182184
Burnell, K., & Woodhouse, G.
Heritage interventions to improve mental health and wellbeing: Developing a programme theory through a realist-informed review.
In P.
Everill & K.
Burnell (Eds.), Archaeology, Heritage, and Wellbeing: Authentic, Powerful, and Therapeutic Engagement with the Past Routledge.
https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003182184-5
Baxter, L., & Burnell, K.
What is wellbeing, and how do we measure it and evaluate it?
Everill, & K.
https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003182184-3
J., Crossland, J., Greenberg, N.
The health and social care of older veterans in the UK: Raising awareness of needs in later life.
In J.
Hacker Hughes (Ed.).
Military Veteran Mental Health and Social Care: Contemporary Perspectives (pp 81-95).
J., & Jones, R.
Public / Private Commemoration of the Falklands War: Mutually Exclusive, or Joint Endeavours?
In M.
Andrews, C.
Bagot Jewitt, & N.
Hunt (Eds.), Lest we Forget?: Remembrance & Commemoration (pp 46-49).
Gloucestershire: The History Press.
Achieving narrative coherence following traumatic war experience: the role of social support.
In G.
Kenyon, E.
Bohlmeijer, and W.
Randall (Eds.) Storying later life: Perspectives, investigations, and interventions in narrative gerontology (pp 195-212).
New York: Oxford University Press.
Burnell, K., Everill, P., Baxter, L.
Makri, E., Watson, K., Monckton, L., Gradinarova, D.
(2021).
Guidelines for involving people with mental health issues in heritage projects.
MARCH Network Plus Fund Report.
Burnell, K., Collins, E., Gordon, K., Hadziosmanovic, E., Leonard.
A., & Penney, C.
(2018).
A Realist Evaluation of a Voluntary Sector Drop In Service for Veterans.
Forces in Mind Trust Report.
Burnell, K., Udell, J., Drahota, A., Crossland, J., Bell, M., Ridley, D., O’Sullivan, B, Lee, K., Ward, D., Soilemezi, D., & Dean, T.
The PEOPPLE Project: Working with the older people of Portsmouth to identify and address their unmet needs.
Final Report June 2013.
(03.09.2014).
Developing a peer support intervention with older war veterans to meet their unmet social support needs.
British Society of Gerontology Annual Conference.
Southampton, UK.
J., & Udell, J.
et al.
(September 2013).
Access to Information: A collaborative project between university, local authority, and the community to develop a website for community information.
Oxford, UK.
(November 2012).
The PEOPPLE (Putting Evidence for Older People into Practice in Living Environments) Project: Researching the needs of the older community as identified by the older community themselves.
INVOLVE Annual Conference.
Nottingham, UK.
J.
& Udell, J.
(July 2012).
Involving older people in health and social care research: An example from the PEOPPLE Project.
Keele, UK.
(23.10.2009).
Emerging Researchers in Ageing (ERA) Conference, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(22.10.2009).
Individual peer supporters for family carers of people with dementia.
Industry Skills Council (ISC) Making a Difference Convention, Melbourne, Australia.
(13.09.2007).
WWII to Iraq: Perceptions of social support and relationship to the narrative coherence of war memories.
British Psychological Society Division of Health Psychology Conference, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(07.07.2007).
World War II veterans’ perceptions of social support and relationship to narrative coherence of war memories.
VI European Congress International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics, St Petersburg, Russia.
Gordon, K., Burnell, K., Wilson, C., & Binks, E.
(2019).
UK Armed Forces veterans' experiences of belonging and life after service: Qualitative approaches and interventions.
Poster session presented at Division of Clinical Psychology Annual Conference.
(15.03.2018).
Exploring the effectiveness of Veteran Outreach Support Portsmouth: A Realist Evaluation.
Veterans’ Mental Health Conference; King’s College London.
London, UK.
(5.5.2017).
British Psychological Society Annual Conference.
Brighton, UK.
Burnell, K.J, Need, A., Murdoch, N., Gordon, K.
(5-6.11.2014).
BPS Military Psychology Conference 2014, UK Defence Academy Shrivenham.
Burnell, K.J.
(15.11.2012).
BPS Military Psychology Conference 2012, Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst.
J., (17- 18.11.2005).
War trauma and life review: The case for early life reconciliation.
Poster presented at the biennial meeting of the International Life Review and Reminiscence Conference, Orlando, Florida, USA.
Selected Invited Seminars, Workshops, Lectures
(19.06.13).
The health and wellbeing of war veterans: Past research and future plans.
Research Seminar given to the Solent Hub British Psychological Society Wessex Branch at the Department of Psychology, University of Portsmouth.
(28.01.2010).
Research Seminar given to the Unit of Behavioural Medicine, UCL.
(05.06.2009).
How to Conduct a Narrative Inquiry: An Introduction.
Workshop presented at the Institute of Work, Health and Organisations, University of Nottingham.
(12.03.2009).
Workshop presented at the North East London Foundation Trust Research and Development Open Day.
BSc (Hons) Psychology (First Class) (University of Southampton, 2003)
MSc Research Methods in Psychology (University of Southampton, 2004)
PhD Psychology (University of Southampton, 2007)
Developing guidelines for heritage projects
Archaeology and Mental Health - what's the connection?
A MARCH Network interview
The Times: Soldiers dig deep to defeat their demons
Meet the Researcher: Solent University podcast

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/football-science-and-performance-research-group:
The Football Science and Performance Research Group emerges out of the BSc (Hons) Football Studies and MSc Football Science courses.
One of the core objectives of this group is to identify and develop real-world research that is relevant within the dynamic football industry domain.
The Football Science and Performance Research Group aims to align each individual staff strengths, to produce contemporary research.
We employ a collaborative approach to the development of research opportunities and projects, involving members of staff across our Football provision.
One of our targets is to enable and support staff to publish relevant research as first author and develop collaborative networks to produce research-related activities, including publications, funding applications and provision of relevant workshops/symposiums, and to host an annual conference focused on the latest research in football science.
This will create a database of relevant research to course development and underpins our research led teaching approach, providing first-hand research to Solent University stakeholders.
The published research will align to Solent’s Human Function and Health , and Social Research and Policy research themes.
Each key theme is also relevant to the curriculum, providing opportunities for students’ development through research (eg, to investigate relative age effect and biobanding, as part of the contents for Elite Youth Development; and the constraint-led approach for Applied Coaching in Football).
We seek to include students in the different themes, as per individual preferences and under specialised staff guidance.
The aim being to introduce and develop understanding of research, which may include joint publication with students, placing them at the forefront of employability upon completion of their degrees, and potentially the attainment of postgraduate opportunities.
Regarding the community, we will work collaboratively with other areas and disciplines within Solent University to strengthen the long relationship with Southampton Football Club, by providing new opportunities to contemporary research, relevant to their academy and aligned with the Club’s ethos - in particular, the development of research based on ecological dynamics.
This is a strength of Solent University football staff, that aims to create research projects through funding opportunities, bridging the need for Southampton FC’s coaching staff with Solent’s lecturing team, and increasing the visibility of our own team into the sports science scientific community.
We will provide opportunities for staff to develop their own research ideas, collaborating with other UK universities, and potentially creating international links with work placements and staff visits, to increase Solent’s visibility worldwide and recruit new international students.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/wellbeing-and-applied-research-in-psychology-group-warp:
WARP is a research group dedicated to the investigation of psychology and its application.
Psychology can be applied in almost any area of life, and our aim is to use psychology to improve people’s lives, both on an individual level and at a policy and practice level.
We are a diverse group, with interests in a wide range of topics such as education, mental health, games, sports, Virtual Reality, ergonomics, pets, children, witness memory and more!
If you are interested in collaborating with any of us, please do get in touch.
As a group we are involved in many different projects, so if you want to collaborate with any of our members please do get in touch.
Current projects we are developing include:
This project is focused on how undergraduates learn, to try and improve student outcomes.
This includes the use of positive psychology to help improve student decision making, ways to improve motivation, and how to help students make better decisions about revision.
In this project, we are looking at people’s behaviours around recycling, with the hope of improving recycling rates with some simple and easy to implement interventions.
In this project, we look at ways to help those who are suffering from trauma, and to find ways to help sufferers improve their wellbeing.
Many factors can affect people’s day to day well-being, and this project focuses on nature and landscapes.
In what ways does nature help us to feel better day-to-day, and how can we harness that to improve personal well-being?
Many people like keeping pets, and the well-being of these companions is important too.
Often, people find it hard to keep to treatment programmes for pets, often due to the uncooperative nature of pets, but also because of life pressures.
This project looks at what can be done to improve adherence to pet treatment programs.
Virtual reality can be a powerful tool to immerse people in an all-encompassing experience.
In turn, this can be useful in a therapeutic context.
This project aims to look at ways we can use Virtual Reality to improve people’s lives, especially those with mental health difficulties or treatment requirements.
Many working spaces are not always designed with psychology in mind, but psychology can be a powerful tool in helping to boost both safety and productivity.
Thus, this project aims to look at ways that bridge design can be improved on sea-faring vessels.
This project is focused on how undergraduates interact with and use online learning environments.
It is particularly focused on how Solent's response to Covid-19 is serving students' learning needs.
Dr Craig Allison is primarily interested in behavioural change and the extent to which technological design can promote safer and more sustainable behaviours.
He has previously looked at both driving and the aviation industries and hopes to move on to bridge design.
Dr Darren Britton is a lecturer in sport psychology.
His PhD research focussed on the role of the stress reactivity in adolescent athletes' performance, wellbeing, and development.
He is currently involved in various projects focussing on the role of stress, emotions and coping in applied sport performance settings.
Dr Karen Burnell is an expert in qualitative methods, and is particularly interested in experiences that interrupt the imagined self or future self, particularly the experience of trauma.
Her current research explores how involvement with heritage can help wellbeing and support mental health with a particular focus on veteran health and wellbeing.
Dr Rhodri Davies is an expert in statistics.
His research interests include the views of students on assessment and feedback and statistical anxiety.
Dr Jenny Josephs is a cognitive psychologist with a passion for outreach and insects.
Her research interests include attitudes towards novel foods and meat consumption, escape rooms for learning in higher education, statistics anxiety, and growth mindset.
Mei Mason-Li is primarily interested in the application of behaviour analysis to children, the impact of having a Theory of Mind, and the development of empathy in children.
Mei's current research area includes an ongoing cross-cultural study exploring parenting styles and their relationship to the wellbeing of adolescents.
Dr Greg Neil specialises in researching memory and learning, and how people make decisions about their own memory and learning, particularly in the areas of education and the justice system.
His recent research has focused on the effects of misleading subtitles and how they can influence jury decision-making.
Dr Zoe Wimshurst is a sports psychologist who focuses primarily on vision and eye-tracking in athletes and on how that can help to improve performance.
Her recent research has investigated how field of view can vary between sports and non-sports players, and she has developed an interest in how character strengths can influence everyday life.
If you want to get in touch, please email the research group lead, Dr Greg Neil at greg.neil@solent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/solent-identities-and-inequalities-research-group:
The Solent Identities and Inequalities Research Group (SIIR) is a community of research-active scholars situated across a range of disciplines.
Our members’ research expertise includes, but is not limited to: gender, sexuality, disability, Global South studies, poverty and social exclusion, social and economic justice, youth cultures, sport and physical activity, and health inequalities.
We consist of staff aligned to numerous courses offered by Solent, including BA (Hons) Sociology , BA (Hons) Criminology , BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology , BSc (Hons) Psychology , BSc (Hons) Criminology and Psychology , BSc (Hons) Football Studies , BSc (Hons) Sport Management .
We are a supportive space to further develop research ideas, work on collaborative funded research projects, peer mentorship and a range of other scholarly activities.
SIIR is chaired by Dr Rory Magrath.
SIIR is a multidisciplinary research group with interest in a range of disciplines.
As a Group, we are committed (albeit not restricted) to the following themes:
SIIR is co-chaired by Dr Rory Magrath, and our membership consists of staff from multiple departments across the University.
Please see more, below.
Rory Magrath is Associate Professor of Sociology.
His research focuses on declining homophobia, and the subsequent impact on contemporary masculinities, with a particular focus on professional sport.
He has authored, co-authored or edited eight books – including, most recently, LGBT Football Fans – over 25 journal articles, and multiple book chapters.
He is Associate Editor of Sport in Society, sits on the editorial boards of Sociology and Managing Sport and Leisure, and and co-edits the Palgrave Studies in Masculinity, Sport and Exercise book series .
View Rory’s profile on Pure
Kola Adeosun is a researcher of educational philosophy, crisis and social change.
His current research interests revolve around the intersectionality of race and educational development in sporting programmes of change as well as how crisis and migration challenges current educational contexts.
As a result, Kola has conducted research in Africa, the Caribbean, Europe, and North America to understand educational attainment for minority groups.
View Kola’s profile on Pure
Karen Arm is a working-class academic with research interests in social justice and equity in higher education policy and practice.
She is committed to understanding and addressing the differentials in academic experience and outcomes of university students from disadvantaged backgrounds
View Karen’s profile on Pure
Karen Burnell , Associate Professor of Applied Psychology, is a Chartered research psychologist and University Research Lead for Social Research and Social Policy.
She specialises in exploring the psychological changes that occur throughout the adult lifespan, with a particular focus on how events in life challenge perceptions of the self (identity), the impact of these challenges on wellbeing, and how these challenges can be overcome through psychosocial and narrative interventions to improve health and wellbeing.
Chris Dunn is a senior lecturer in public health, leading modules over a number of undergraduate and master's programmes.
Chris’s teaching focuses on World Health Organisation health promotion, the salutogenic orientation, the social determinants of health and health inequalities, obesogenic environments, and the healthy settings approach
View Chris's profile on Pure
Amy Duvenage is a lecturer in criminology whose research focuses on coloniality, narrative, gender and intersectionality, and thought from the Global South.
View Amy’s profile on Pure
Ahlem Lezerad is a lecturer in criminology and a researcher in home-grown Islamist radicalisation and sense of belonging.
Her research interests also include young people, socio-psychology, ethnicity/race/religion, sense of belonging/identity, international radicalisation, White extremism, terrorism, global wars, and geopolitics.
Comparative research is also an important parameter of her research interests.
View Ahlem’s profile on Pure
Brian McDonough has researched social inequalities linked to precarious work and unemployment, investigating how these might be overcome with changes to welfare and social policy.
These ideas are most recently discussed in his co-authored text Universal Basic Income (Routledge, 2020).
He also continues to investigate the use of automated technologies in the workplace and how these change social communication and workplace identities.
See his new edited textbook, Sociology of Work and Organisation: A Global Perspective (also with Routledge, forthcoming in 2023).
View Brian’s profile on Pure
Shakiba Moghadam is a Chartered Psychologist and lecturer in psychology, with a specific focus on community psychology, and sport and exercise psychology.
Shakiba’s research predominantly focuses on mental health literacy and athlete mental health, experiences of women athletes in male dominated sports, human rights violations in sports, and the experiences of marginalised communities such as refugees and asylum seekers.
Shakiba is one of four leads on the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Science’s SEPAR equality, diversity and inclusivity training workshops for trainee sport and exercise psychologists, and the chair of the British Psychological Society’s newly formed human rights advisory group.
Shakiba is also a panel member for the Universities of Sanctuary and appointed trustee for three charities that work and support marginalised communities.
View Shakiba's profile on Pure
Donna Peberdy is Associate Professor of Performance, Sex and Gender in the Department of Film and Media, and University Research Lead for Media, Culture and the Arts.
Donna is the author of Masculinity and Film Performance: Male Angst in Contemporary American Cinema (Palgrave Macmillan 2011) and co-editor of Tainted Love: Screening Sexual Perversion (IB Tauris 2017).
She is the co-director of Screening Sex , driving the establishment of an international research network, blog ( www.screeningsex.com ), special interest group for the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies, and book series (with Edinburgh University Press).
Donna is currently co-editing the first two titles in the series – two volumes examining the sex scene in film, television and culture.
Donna was recently awarded a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship to complete a 12-month interdisciplinary project: Screening Sexual Violence in the #MeToo Era.
The project provides comprehensive analysis of current ways sexual violence is represented on screen, including the analysis of 80 short films about gender-based violence from six countries.
View Donna's profile on Pure
Kamran Qureshi is an award-winning film and TV director and lecturer in film production at Solent.
His research work on intersex includes Australian, Indian, American films and TV, Transgender Act 2018, directorial experience of telemovie Murad , a 32-part TV series, Moorat and Only Love Matters , the first feature film on intersex set in the UK.
He has also made the world’s first research database ( https://intersexdatabase.com ) of intersex-related art forms, including films, TV, theatre, radio, and literature.
His forthcoming book title is Fiction Filmmaking Practice Research.
View Kamran's profile on Pure
Esther Snell is a senior lecturer in criminology.
After completing a BA (Hons) History and Music at Canterbury Christ Church University, Esther gained her History PhD from the University of Kent.
Before coming to Southampton, she worked as a lecturer at Canterbury Christ Church and also Oxford Brookes universities.
Esther then had a brief stint as a research assistant at the Open University, specialising in the history of crime and punishment and mentalities in the early modern period.
Esther’s research is particularly interested in the representations of criminality and justice in the media.
View Esther’s profile on Pure
Before joining Solent in 2017, Adam Vaughan completed his undergraduate, master's and PhD in film studies at the University of Southampton.
His research and teaching interests include performance in documentary film, animation, queer cinema, and intersectional approaches to screen representation.
He is currently working on the monograph from his PhD thesis, titled Doing Documentary, Becoming Subjects: Performance and Performativity in Documentary Cinema .
He has contributed chapters to edited collections on 21st-century European documentary, the historical biopics of Derek Jarman, sex in documentary cinema, and queer representation during the Hollywood Production Code era.
He is also online editor for the Screening Sex network.
View Adam's profile on Pure
SIIR meet regularly as a network for peer support, including reading groups, writing retreats and collaborative research development.
Members are also involved in a range of other events and activities, including those aligned to learned societies and those linked to industry.
Many members have successfully bid for funding from external organisations, including the American Institute of Bisexuality, Sport England and Royal National Institute of Blind People.
To view a list of events, please contact either of the group’s chairs.
International Human Rights Day – The Beginning of Peace and a Fairer Society
This event focused on how rights are the beginning of peace within societies, and ways to create a fairer society for future generations.
Discussion topics included the current women’s rights movements in Iran and Qatar hosting the men’s World Cup.
The Future of Football: Mapping Progress and Alternatives football research symposium
This one-day hybrid critically examined the challenges and crises currently facing football and also mapped out more progressive and sustainable visions and alternatives that might reshape the future of the game.
We encourage and support new MPhil/PhD students whose research may align with the group.
If you would like more information about postgraduate research opportunities, please feel free to get in touch.
More information about Solent University’s research programme can be found here .
If you are interested in joining the Group, or finding out more about what we do, please contact us on: SIIR@solent.ac.uk or feel free to contact Dr Rory Magrath .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/art-environment-and-social-change:
The Art, Environment and Social Change Research Group identifies the triad of art, environment, and social change as key theoretical frameworks in responding to the current ecological crisis through the optics of art, beyond a narrow definition of art as a display of artefact.
Current social stratification, inequalities, and conflicts are tied to ecological crisis, and creative practice, critical exploration of untested ideas and rigorous academic research can play a significant role in improving the current situations.
Bringing postgraduate students, internal and external researchers together, the group responds to the complex entanglement of forces making up a crisis.
Acknowledging the importance of intricately weaving together both theoretical discourses and generative practices, the group provides a platform for discussing, imagining, devising, and developing new strategies, narratives, and practices in response to the situations in which the concerns relating to ecology can open passages towards more accountable and responsible positions.
In response to the ecological crisis, the group aims to develop discourses, strategies to find solutions, suggestions and practices that may allow for social change.
Through discussions and channelling ideas and researchers’ practices into collective bodies of works such as exhibitions and publications, the group aims at accounting the lived experiences of climate change and investigating and responding to the emotional and psychological impacts of ecological crisis.
The Art, Environment and Social Change Research Group offers supervision for MPhil/PhD degrees.
This includes practice-led research in a wider definition of art including fine art, photography, video, curation, fashion among others.
We welcome prospective post graduate research students who are interested in pursuing research in the areas of art, environment and social change.
If you are interested, do please contact our research degree office .
For an informal discussion of your proposal please contact Dr Atsuhide Ito or Dr Jessica Holtaway .
Senior Research Fellow (Visual Arts)
HOLTAWAY J.
‘ World-Forming and Contemporary Art ’.
UK
ITO, A.
“Hauntology of the Machinic”.
In Steven John Thompson (ed.) Machine Law, Ethics, and Morality in the Age of Artificial Intelligence .
IGI Global.
MORETON, G.
‘ Narrative, Figure, Place: New Acquisitions 2011-2021 ', Southampton City Art Gallery (24 September 2021–29 January 2022)
‘ Hutopia ’, curated by Dieter Roelstraete.
Neubauer Collegium, University of Chicago, USA (25 April 2019–6 September 2019)
2018.
‘ Machines à Penser ’, curated by Dieter Roelstraete.
Fondazione Prada Venice, Italy.
The Venice Biennale (26 May 2018–25 November 2018)
SLEVIN, T., 2015.
Visions of the human : art, World War I and the modernist subject .
SLEVIN, T.
‘X-Rays: Technological Revelation and its Cultural Receptions’ in A.
Goody and I.
Whittington, eds, The Edinburgh Companion to Modernism and Technology .
Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
“ Semantics of Cleanliness ”.
In: Shabliy, E.V., Crawford, M.J., Kurochkin, D.
(eds) Energy Justice .
Palgrave Macmillan, Cham.
“ Translating Slow Violence: The Use of Environmental Data in Art as Un-Forecasting ” in Acoustic and Visual Ecology of Damaged Planet, Special Issue of AM Journal of Art and Media Studies
‘ Jacquetta Hawkes ’.
In: Heron, F., ‘Photography and Landscape’, Photography Culture.
The Photographers’ Gallery London (online resource including gallery).
‘ Somewhere Becoming Sea ’, Humber Street Gallery, Hull UK City of Culture curated by Steven Bode, Film and Video Umbrella (5 April 2017–17 June 2017)
‘ In Place of Architecture ’, Bonington Gallery, Nottingham Trent University (6 November 2015–11 December 2015)
PYAKUREL, P.
“ Green growth or degrowth?
Evaluating the potential of technology for sustainability ”.
Economics and Policy of Energy and the Environment , DOI: 10.3280/EFE2021-001002.
‘ Vision, revelation, violence: Technology and expanded perception within photographic history .’ Philosophy of Photography, Vol.
9, Number 1
PYAKUREL, P., MARASINI, R.
“ Policy planning to achieve sustainable development goals for low-income nations ”.
Environmental Development , 40.
If you would like to join our newsletter list and participate in our events, please email Dr Atsuhide Ito or Dr Jessica Holtaway .
Spring 2022 Newsletter
Autumn 2022 Newsletter

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/contemporary-screen-studies-research-group:
The Contemporary Screen Studies research group is designed to be a forum for researchers from a diverse range of backgrounds to share experiences and ideas in ways which will be beneficial for experienced members of staff, early career researchers, and postgraduate students.
Our primary goal is to contribute to the field of screen studies through the cultivation and creation of new knowledge at the forefront of the discipline, evidenced by a range of impacts, experiences, and outputs in both traditional and non-traditional forms.
We define the group as one which identifies as:
We are comprised of notable scholars and renowned practitioners in the arenas of:
A selection of recent publications and output from members of the Contemporary Screen Studies research group
The Contemporary Screen Studies research group offers supervision for MPhil/PhD’s within the above-mentioned research areas, including creative practice research.
We are currently accepting self-funded research students in a range of specialisms, who will be supported by our academic members.
If you would like more information about postgraduate research opportunities, please contact please contact Dr Donna Peberdy .
More information regarding Solent University's research programme can be found here .
Our members
If you're interested in joining the group, please get in touch either Dr Stuart Joy at stuart.joy@solent.ac.uk , Dr Adam Vaughan at adam.vaughan@solent.ac.uk , or Dr Jamie Clarke at jamie.clarke@solent.ac.uk ;for more information.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/engineering-design-and-manufacture-edm-research-group:
Since engineering design and manufacture are the two most important stages of product life cycle in terms of crucial decision making regarding its design/form/shape, material selection/sustainability, manufacturing, operation/use and recycling/disposal of product, and end of life cycle, an integrated concurrent design and manufacture approach is the state-of-the-art practice currently employed in the industry.
Due to the recent advancements in design (simulation/virtual reality/digital twinning), materials (smart/composite/3D printed materials), and manufacturing (additive/hybrid/robotics/automation), there is great scope now to research, design, manufacture and evaluate new sustainable products and systems in different fields of engineering.
The Engineering Design and Manufacture (EDM) research group is formulated to bring together researchers from various fields of engineering (mechanical, electronics, yacht design and renewable energy) at Solent University to research the development of products using the latest advancements in design, materials, and manufacturing technologies.
The group members have existing research strengths and have conducted internal and external, nationally and internationally funded Engineering design and manufacture related research projects in mechanical engineering, renewable energy engineering, electronics engineering and yacht engineering.
The EDM research group will consolidate each member’s individual research towards a joint research approach with well-defined focus areas in engineering, as well as plan collectively for interdisciplinary research and externally funded research projects to gain a critical mass and volume of research output leading to more peer-reviewed publications and impact case studies being generated for the REF 2027 submission.
Some research group members are already using their research to inform their teaching in the form of case study examples and new lab equipment/components designed and manufactured as research results.
It is envisaged that formalising an engineering design and manufacture research group will enable a wider insight and a more solid approach for integrating research into our practical and theoretical teaching to the benefit of students and improvement of courses.
The EDM research group members intend work on the following key themes of engineering design and manufacture:
Download the EDM April 2022 newsletter
For more information about the group and its work, contact Dr Fayyaz Rehman .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/music-creativity-and-the-cultural-economy:
Music, Creativity and the Cultural Economy is an inclusive and interdisciplinary research group focused on examining the cultural and creative industries and creative practice, with a particular focus on music, but encompassing all forms of creative and cultural activity.
Music, creativity and the cultural economy are areas of rich contemporary scholarly concern, casting light on a range of social, cultural, political and business issues.
Furthermore, the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport reported in 2022 that creative and cultural work accounts for around 1 in 8 UK businesses, and almost 2.3 million jobs.
Members of the group have published extensively on music history, culture and business, as well as on cultural heritage, journalism, fan cultures and media.
The group is open to all established and new researchers from across Solent University, as well as to the ‘research curious’, and supports Solent’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Enabling Plan regarding staff development and knowledge exchange/civic engagement.
We encourage and support new MPhil/PhD students in our research specialisms (see below), and are currently accepting self-funded research students.
If you would like more information about postgraduate research opportunities, please contact Chris Anderton .
If you are interested in joining the group or want to know more, please email Chris Anderton .
The key themes of the group will develop over time, and in line with the membership of the group; however, we can initially identify the following:
The aims of the group are:
Members of the group have published many works in this area:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/regenerative-enterprise-and-entrepreneurship-research-group:
The Regenerative Enterprise and Entrepreneurship group (REE) has been developed around the strengths of Solent Business School and the internal and external contributions of staff in terms of research and KE activities.
The REE group focuses on investigating and enhancing aspects enterprise and entrepreneurship theory and practice.
This includes but is not limited to: female entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship education, entrepreneurial intentions, intrapreneurship, business ethics, strategy and marketing development, project management, and regenerative supply change and their implication to enterprise and entrepreneurship.
The aim of the REE group is connecting experienced researchers, less-experienced and new researchers, and students in Solent Business School and beyond to enable them to collaborate in research and knowledge exchange activities particularly in enterprise and entrepreneurship.
In addition, the group encourages staff to expand their contributions by developing student entrepreneurship within the University, continuing to carry out and promote research and knowledge exchange activities, engaging with business communities, increasing the number of collaborations with researchers from the UK and abroad to deliver research impact, increasing the number of publications in academic journals, and drawing in more staff to become active in measurable outcomes, such as income generation.
The group also supports the members by carrying out workshops or other activities requested by members.
The group offers supervision for MPhil/PhDs within the above-mentioned area or cross-disciplinary areas.
We are accepting self-funded PhD students with suitable research proposals who will be supervised by our academic staff.
Dr Graeme Smith
Uje Daniel Apeji
Tomasz Lasek
Dr Ajab Khan
Dr Alex Dimitriadis
The group holds a monthly seminar to allow academic staff and PhD students to share their research findings.
For more information regarding the monthly seminar please email Dr Whysnianti Basuki.
Date: 1-6 September 2025
We're honoured to be hosting this exciting research event, aimed at strengthening European research and networks in entrepreneurship.
View conference information

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/solent-computing-and-ai-research-group:
The Solent Computing and AI research group focuses on practical aspects of computing and AI to find innovative digital solutions to real-work problems through collaborative research and industry engagement.
We believe that the research should not be only on paper, but must also have an impact on industry and society in a wider sense.
This group provides a vibrant platform for staff – ranging from experienced to early-career researchers – and postgraduate students to promote research culture, streamline their research activities, and produce new knowledge at the forefront of the discipline, as evidenced by peer-reviewed publications and novel solutions to the practical problems in the industry.
In 2020, the group won OfS funding of £500,000 to design and launch the postgraduate conversion course in AI and Data Science, and in 2021 we won OfS funding of £50,000 for the National Data Skills Pilot project.
The research work of the group members has been included in the previous REF submissions.
The group has expertise in various areas of computing including AI, machine learning, data science, computer networks, cyber security, augmented/virtual reality, user experience and usability design, software design and testing, and multimedia communications.
The Solent Computing and AI research group aims to:
Dr Shakeel Ahmad (Convener)
Dr Kalin Penev (Co-Convener)
Dr Jarutas Andritsch
Dr Nick Whitelegg
Dr Anthony Basiel
Neville Palmer
Warren Earle
Dr Bode Amangele
Dr Kashif Talpur
The group offers supervision for MPhil/PhDs within the above-mentioned computing area or cross-disciplinary areas, especially in AI, machine learning and data science.
We are accepting self-funded PhD students with suitable research proposals who will be supervised by our experienced research staff.
If you would like more information about postgraduate research opportunities, please contact Dr Shakeel Ahmad .
For more information about the group and its work, contact Dr Shakeel Ahmad or Dr Kalin Penev .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/warsash-maritime-human-element-research-group:
The Warsash Maritime Human Element research group focuses on issues relating to those who work in, and around, the maritime environment.
This includes areas of research such as occupational health and safety, workplace bullying and harassment, industrial relations, the organisation of work and employment, and maritime security.
The research group is primarily interested in policy and engages with pressing maritime human element issues at global, national and sub-national level.
The core value of the research group is that research impacts positively on the experiences of workers in, and around, the maritime environment.
The group provides a vibrant platform for staff and postgraduate students to streamline their research activities, promote a healthy research culture, produce new knowledge and encourage policy changes.
The research group runs a series of research seminars hosted by internal and external academics.
These seminars are open to all individuals.
To be added to the Warsash Maritime Human Element research seminars mailing list please contact Dr Helen Devereux .
The Warsash Maritime Human Element research group offers supervision for MPhil/PhD within the above-mentioned research areas.
If you would like more information about postgraduate research opportunities, please contact Research Admissions .
Find out more about Solent University's research programme
A selection of recent publications from members of the Warsash Maritime Human Element research group:
Akyuz, E., Karahalios, H ., & Celik, M.
Assessment of the maritime labour convention compliance using balanced scorecard and analytic hierarchy process approach.
Maritime Policy & Management , 42 (2), 145-162.
Devereux, H ., & Wadsworth, E.
(2023).
Barriers to personal protective equipment use among international seafarers: a UK perspective.
WMU Journal of Maritime Affairs , 1-16.
(2022).
Forgotten keyworkers: the experiences of British seafarers during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Economic and Labour Relations Review , 33 (2), 272-289.
Devereux, H .
Seafarer injuries in relation to time into tour of duty.
Marine Policy , 135 , 104865.
Work scheduling and work location control in precarious and ‘permanent’ employment.
The Economic and Labour Relations Review , 32 (2), 230-246.
Devereux, H ., Wadsworth, E., & Bhattacharya, S.
Workplace fiddles in the shipping industry.
Employee Relations: The International Journal , 42 (4), 933-948.
Karahalios, H .
Appraisal of a Ship’s Cybersecurity efficiency: the case of piracy.
Journal of Transportation Security , 13 (3-4), 179-201.
Evaluating the knowledge of experts in the maritime regulatory field.
Maritime Policy & Management , 44 (4), 426-441.
The contribution of risk management in ship management: The case of ship collision.
Safety Science , 63 , 104-114.
Karahalios, H ., Yang, Z.
L., & Wang, J.
A risk appraisal system regarding the implementation of maritime regulations by a ship operator.
Maritime Policy & Management , 42 (4), 389-413.
Kennard, A., Zhang, P., & Rajagopal, S .
Technology and training: How will deck officers transition to operating autonomous and remote-controlled vessels?.
Marine Policy , 146 , 105326.
Zhang, P., Zhao, L., Vata, O., & Rajagopal, S .
Restructuring seafarers’ welfare under the Maritime Labour Convention: an empirical case study of Greece.
Maritime Business Review , 5 (4), 373-389.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/warsash-maritime-operations-research-group:
The Warsash Maritime Operations research group carries out both, quantitative and qualitative research to provide innovative ideas and solutions to address current and future challenges in maritime operations, provides a stimulating platform for staff, students, external stakeholders, and industry to come together to brainstorm and carry out collaborative research in maritime operations.
The research group conducts studies to optimize maritime operations and minimize risks associated with maritime transportation, managerial failures, and hazards to the marine environment.
It further covers security and cybersecurity studies.
The insights gained from research help inform policymakers and ensure that the maritime industry operates in a way that safeguards the safety, security and environmental operation of ships and ports.
The purpose of the group is to stimulate innovative research through workshops, formal and informal discussions, seminars as well as through publications, exhibitions, site-visits, and conferences.
The research aims to study ship operations and associated management activities systematically.
It involves the application of mathematical models, statistical analyses, and theoretical frameworks to identify and evaluate various existing strategies, procedures and policies aiming at improving ship performance and cost reduction within the industry.
Further, the research group works towards developing the research culture among the Warsash Maritime School and actively support the research initiatives undertaken by other research groups.
The Warsash Maritime Operations research group offers supervision for master's and PhDs within the above-mentioned research areas.
We are currently accepting self-funded research students in a range of specialisms who will be supported by our academic members.
Dmytro Makarchuk (Lead)
Hristos Karahalios (Co-Lead)
Zakirul Bhuiyan
Jaikar Sohal
Shahriar Mazhari
Martin Baker
Artem Ivanov

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-groups/warsash-maritime-technology-and-innovation-wmti-research-group:
The Warsash Maritime Technology and Innovation (WMTI) Research Group is a team of dedicated professionals committed to advancing the development of maritime engineering and technology.
Our group comprises staff, students, and external researchers, as well as industry experts who collaborate to find innovative solutions to current and future challenges in the maritime industry.
Our research covers a wide range of areas, including commercial, passenger and fishing vessel safety; structural fatigue, shipboard, terminal and port operations; navigation, maritime autonomous surface ships (MASS), maritime safety and pollution prevention, alternative fuels and sustainability (UN SDGs).
Through quantitative and qualitative research, we aim to enhance the efficiency and efficacy of these operations by exploring new and innovative approaches.
The WMTI Research Group thus provides a platform for researchers and experts to come together, share their knowledge and insights, and work collaboratively towards finding solutions to pressing maritime challenges.
We are committed to finding sustainable and innovative solutions that contribute to the development of the industry.
The aim of the WMTI Research Group is to explore and develop innovative, user-friendly technological solutions that enable safe and efficient maritime operations.
Our purpose is to stimulate innovative research and thinking and stimulate innovative thinking through workshops, formal and informal discussions, seminars, publications, exhibitions, site visits, and conferences and to conduct cutting-edge research.
Our interdisciplinary approach enables us to draw upon expertise from diverse fields to provide holistic solutions to complex challenges facing the industry.
We seek to foster a research culture within Solent University, Warsash Maritime School, and to support other research initiatives in the maritime industry.
Our ultimate goal is to contribute to the sustainable development of the maritime industry by enhancing the safety and efficiency of maritime operations worldwide.
We believe that by working collaboratively and promoting innovative thinking, we can make a meaningful and positive impact on the industry, while also inspiring the next generation of maritime engineers and technologists.
The research group will work towards developing a vibrant research culture within and among various branches of Solent University and will actively support the research initiatives undertaken by other research groups, as well as with other universities worldwide.
We look forward to collaborating with different entities and stake holders related to the maritime industry.
The WMTI Research Group offers supervision for Master/PhD degrees.
This includes practice-led research in the field of maritime engineering and technology.
We welcome prospective post graduate research students who are interested in pursuing research in these areas.
For an informal discussion of your proposal please contact Capt.
Sriram Rajagopal .
Sriram Rajagopal
Abdullah Tahhan
Mahmoud Haghdousti
Kemedi Moara-Nkwe
We look forward to collaborating with industry associations, governmental agencies and non-governmental organisations.
If you would like to collaborate with us, please email Capt.
Journals
Books and chapters
Magazines and industry publications

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/step-into-success:
Step into Success is the Solent University widening participation programme, which aims to support progression to higher education for disadvantaged learners.
The programme works with learners in schools and colleges from years 5 to 13, in addition to targeted community groups.
Participants in the programme have access to a variety of activities, events and resources which aim to raise awareness of higher education, raise career aspirations, and support educational attainment.
The programme aligns with our Access and Participation Plan , working with schools, colleges, virtual schools, and local community organisations.
The programme is inclusive, however we prioritise learners who:
The programmes integrate themes around careers, progression, school attainment and higher education, with strong links to the national curriculum and the Gatsby Benchmarks.
We have on- and off-campus delivery options, in addition to virtual events.
We work prominently with targeted partner schools/colleges and community organisations, however, where possible, we will support disadvantaged learners from other settings (including access to many of our events).
Please take a look below at the activities we have available and email us should you have any queries or wish to be involved.
Further large events for all are listed on our events page .
You can also keep up-to-date by signing up to our widening participation newsletter.
Sign up to our newsletter
Solent has been proactive in designing a programme specifically for our young people.
They recognise the significant barriers that care experienced young people may have and offer innovative strategies to engage and support, not only the young people, but their carers too.
We offer a number of engaging activities for disadvantaged learners.
Find out what's currently available.
A 1-hour workshop exploring different career journeys, including an interactive game and discussions to spark inspiration.
Available to: Partner schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical
A 20-minute assembly delivered by a Solent academic for year 5 and 6 which introduces learners to a specific industry and career path.
Available to: Partner schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical or online
A 20-minute assembly which introduces the concept of university and raises aspirations.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 7 Available to: Partner schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical or online
From the Commonwealth Games straight to your assembly, this is a fantastic free opportunity to have Commonwealth Games Gold medallist, World Championship medallist, and Solent University alumna, Kelly Simm deliver a 20-minute in-person assembly to your learners themed around New Beginnings (subject to availability).
In this assembly Kelly uses her own medal-winning journey to provide relatable content that focuses on what it means to have a new beginning, the benefits of working hard to reach your goals, creating your own success dealing with challenges, and knowing that it’s okay to ask for help.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 7 Available to: Partner schools Time of year: Subject to request Format: Physical
Delivered by a current Solent student, this 20-minute assembly aims to excite and enthuse learners and give them a taste of student life by a positive role model.
It will chart one student's career pathway from choosing GCSE options, to degree-level study, and beyond.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 4, 7 Available to: Partner schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical or online
A 20-minute assembly which introduces the concept of Level 1 and 2 qualifications (bespoke to school programme) to support learners making informed choices during the options process.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 7 Available to: Partner schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical or online
Centred around understanding the GCSE options process and careers pathways, learners will experience two university campuses (Solent University and the University of Southampton) and meet current students who will explain their journey from Key Stage 4 to higher education.
Book online Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 5, 7 Available to: Partner schools (non-partner schools may attend, subject to availability) Time of year: Spring Format: Physical
Our stand is available to attend your careers event to support learners in making informed choices about their career pathways.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 7 Available to: All Southampton, Portsmouth and Hampshire secondary schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical
A 20-minute assembly which highlights the importance of obtaining good GCSE results and progression pathways beyond GCSE exams.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 7 Available to: Partner schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical or online
A one-hour workshop that supports learners in managing revision, applying exam techniques and using research skills.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 7 Available to: Southampton partner schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical
Delivered by our academics, this on-campus event supports GCSE business learners in understanding key skills required for success within real-world industries.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 Available to: Southampton partner schools Time of year: All year Format: Physical
Learners will join us at our East Park Terrace campus to take part in fun, interactive, subject specific activities which explore a different course area each day.
With choices that include the creative arts, health and sport, and science and engineering, learners will be able to link their GCSE studies to the higher education pathways and career opportunities available in these industries
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 Available to: Partner schools (non-partner schools may attend, subject to availability) Time of year: Summer Format: Physical
More Maths is a bookable small group maths tuition programme taking place after school which aims to compliment the school maths curriculum with topics including Algebra, Ratio and Proportion, Geometry and Probability.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 5, 7 Available to: Southampton secondary schools Time of year: Spring Format: Physical
A 60-minute workshop which discuss the range of post-16 education available including Apprenticeships, BTECs, T Levels and A Level supporting learners making informed choices about life after secondary school.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 7 Available to: Southampton partner schools/colleges Time of year: Spring Format: Physical or online
A mental health and wellbeing focused assembly which explores the subject matter in relation to coping with exam pressure.
The assembly also includes information, tools and strategies to help identify potential health issues, guidance on where to get advice as well as support and approaches to looking after your own mental health and wellbeing.
(This assembly is delivered by our mental health and therapy team) Gatsby benchmark: 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 Available to: All learners Time of year: Spring Format: Physical
A mental health focussed assembly focussed on coping with exam pressure (delivered by our Mental Health and Therapy Team).
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 Available to: All learners Time of year: Spring Format: Physical
Are you or do you know someone in year 11 who wants to improve their Maths ahead of the summer 2023 GCSE exams?
Join us for a full day of free GCSE Maths tuition on 10 April (Foundation), 11 April (Foundation), or 12 April (Higher) 2024 covering the GCSE Maths syllabus.
Lunch, refreshments and resources are included.
A 45-minute interactive workshop or assembly providing an overview of the benefits of higher education, what university is like, and how to take the first steps towards application.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 7 Time of year: All year Format: Physical or online
With a range of activities, workshops and campus tours facilitated by both Solent University and the University of Southampton, this one day collaborative event aims to support learners in making an informed choice about higher education.
While visiting both university campuses, students will gain information and knowledge about applying to university, the support they can expect once they enrol, and how best to navigate student finance.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 Time of year: Spring Format: Physical
A series of online drop-ins for a variety of subject areas focusing providing information and advice for courses that require additional application selection (interviews, auditions, and portfolios).
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 7 Time of year: Autumn and Spring Format: Online
A bespoke 45-minute talk providing parents / carers with information to support learners' career pathways and progression to higher education.
A bespoke visit available on request (subject to availability) for learners meeting our widening participation criteria eg, looked after children.
Gatsby benchmark: 1, 3, 4, 5, 7 Year groups: 9, 10, 11, 12 or 13 Time of year: Subject to request Format: Physical
Bespoke CPD for professionals (subject to availability) who support disadvantaged learners entering higher education.
A variety of content can be covered including how our student services team can support learner, this can be hosted at your venue or at the university.
Time of year: Subject to request Format: Physical or online
A bespoke 45-minute talk in a community setting (subject to availability) providing parents/carers/adult learners with information to support progression to higher education.
Working with Solent has given an insight to so many of our students across the city, enabling them to see the potential that a higher qualification brings, opening the doors to opportunities local, national and international.
If you would like more information about Step Into Success, or would like to work with us, please do get in touch.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/post-16-key-stage-5:
The Schools and Colleges Liaison Team provide information, advice and support for prospective students, teachers, advisers, parents and carers.
The team is lead by Rhys Phillips.
We attend UCAS and UK University Search fairs across the UK and school and college events across the South of England.
You will have a dedicated contact based on which county your institution is located in.
Your contact will work with you to support your students, focusing on post-16 ones.
Occasionally we work with the Access and Widening Participation Team, which focuses on supporting local, disadvantaged pre-16 students.
You can read more about their work here.
On this webpage you can learn about ways we can collaborate, upcoming taster days, resources and open day information.
Collaboration is at the heart of our work
We wish to work closely with you and your colleagues within your institution to support your students.
There are several ways you can stay in touch, work with us, and stay up to date with what's happening at Solent.
If you have any questions or would like to discuss ways we can support your students, email your contact within the team or the whole team on schools.colleges@solent.ac.uk
Register to receive communication from a dedicated contact in the team.
This will include the team’s monthly newsletter, full of all things Solent, and events designed to support your students and you.
Careers staff - click here to stay in touch
See our previous newsletters
Follow Solent University on social media, then share these links with your students:
To book one of our in-person sessions listed below, please email your contact or schools.colleges@solent.ac.uk
We design bespoke sessions too.
We will be at these fairs in 2024 and would love to chat to your students too:
Along with our multi college fixed date taster days like Solent Sound, CSI Solent and CGFX, we are happy to discuss a bespoke taster experience just for your institution.
We can offer these, at Solent, in a range of subjects like art and music, business and law, film and media, social sciences and nursing and science and engineering.
Please contact us to enquire, providing some dates that work for you.
We run several interactive subject-specific taster days on fixed dates throughout the year.
These are for level three students, accompanied by their school/college staff.
Supported by friendly academics, your students typically get hands on with their subject in our state-of-the-art facilities.
Solent has achieved the highest standard in the national TEF review.
This Gold award recognises student experience and outcomes which are typically outstanding.
A safe place for your students to chat online with current Solent students and staff about anything they like, from sports and societies, to courses and cooking.
Our insightful blogs guide them through socialising, studying, Southampton, and more.
A virtual six-part webinar series designed for prospective students, guiding them through the key stages of the university application process.
Webinars are on select Mondays until August 2025.
Southampton is in the top 10 best student cities.
These resources are designed to support you, your students and their families with their transition to university.
Personal statement review service
Students attending our open days can have their personal statement draft reviewed by an experienced member of the team.
You can also book us to deliver a session on how to write a great personal statement to your students.
If there are any other resources you would find valuable, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply/undergraduate-applications/contextual-offers:
We’re dedicated to making an excellent university education available to everyone, whatever their background.
That’s why we offer contextual admissions – these are special offers that take into account your personal challenges, background, and achievements.
These offers are designed to help students who might have faced difficulties in the past.
They make it possible for those who might otherwise struggle to attend university to reach their goals.
We also have a scholarship specifically for those who receive contextual offers.
This scholarship can help with the costs of university life.
Our contextual admissions process looks at things like if someone is a young carer, where they live, what school they went to, and more.
This helps us find students who might have faced challenges but still have what it takes to do well in university.
We allow them to go to come to Solent and succeed.
Our contextual offers are open to UK applicants (studying UK qualifications) applying for three- or four-year undergraduate degree courses (without a foundation year) who meet one or more of the following criteria:
Please note - if you feel you have a disability that is not listed above, but that you would benefit from a contextual offer, please complete and submit the self-declaration form.
If you feel you meet any of the following additional criteria, we recommend you complete and submit our self-declaration form as this information is not included in your UCAS application, and will help us provide the best possible contextual offer:
Contextual offers are not available through Clearing.
Our admissions team can then assess your eligibility for a contextual offer, and support you with any mitigating circumstances.
What you get:
Lower offers will be dependent on the qualification(s) the applicant is either currently studying for, or has already achieved.
Find out more about the contextual offer scholarship.
If you are assessed as eligible for a contextual offer and offered a place at Solent, your contextual offer will show up on UCAS Hub once your offer is made by the University.
You will receive an offer letter via the Solent University applicant portal, which will confirm your contextual offer.
No, you don’t have to accept Solent as your ‘firm’ or ‘insurance’ choice to receive the contextual offer.
For courses that have additional selection attached to their entry requirements, applicants will be invited to either attend an on-site interview or submit an electronic portfolio for consideration.
Decisions and feedback will be sent to the applicant, as per the normal process, taking into account contextual information provided on their application or on the self-declaration form.
A secondary school where the school’s average Progress 8 score is below average or well below the national average.
See the list of eligible schools
We will use DfE Progress 8 measure (2018-19) as our main data set, based on a school’s average Progress 8 score.
Progress 8 is ‘the progress that pupils in a school make from the end of primary school to the end of key stage 4.
It is a type of value-added measure, which means that pupils’ results are compared to the progress of other pupils nationally with similar prior attainment’ and a ‘school’s Progress 8 score is calculated as the average of its pupils’ Progress 8 scores’.
For more information on how school performance is measured, visit ‘ Understanding school and college performance measures ’ on the UK government’s website.
If you have checked your school eligibility but believe the information we have is incorrect, please complete the self-declaration form and we will investigate.
Our schools data is based on 2018/19 data from the Department for Education; we continue to use this dataset due to the impact of the pandemic on school and college performance data.
As such, schools which are new, or which have changed name, may not always be captured in the dataset.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/alumni/connect-with-us/update-your-details:
All graduates from Solent University, Southampton Institute, Warsash Maritime Academy, Southampton College of Technology, Southampton College of Higher Education and Southampton College of Art are members of the Solent University alumni community.
To let us know of any changes to your address or telephone number, please use the form below:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/alumni/connect-with-us:
Find out more about the services we provide our alumni network.
To request a confirmation of attendance, transcript of results, or an academic reference, please complete this form .
Your degree certificate would have been awarded to you on completion of your qualification here at Solent University.
Alumni are able to order replacement certificates online .
Moved house?
Working at a new company?
Let us know any changes to your details by completing our form .
This means we can keep you informed about alumni events, exclusive benefits and volunteering opportunities, so do keep in touch.
Missing us?
You can stay #SolentForLife by buying branded goods via our online shop.
10% of all merchandise sales (excluding ‘class of' gifts) goes towards our Local Student Bursary Scheme .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/alumni/how-you-can-help-us:
As part of our global alumni network, there are plenty of opportunities for you to get involved, both on and off campus.
Alumni can help to inspire current and prospective students by taking part in mentoring schemes, sharing their industry experience, guest speaking or arranging work experience placements.
Looking to give back to Solent?
Charitable donations of any size can make a real difference.
Your support will help us to provide excellent teaching facilities, reduce student hardship and make a difference to almost every aspect of university life.
Solent University is an exempt charity under the terms of the Charities Act 2011.
Solent University is registered with the Fundraising Regulator .
As a Solent alum, you are a living example of the opportunities available to current students.
From mentoring to acting as ambassador, guest lecturing and sharing your story, there's a range of activities you can help us with.
We are always keen to hear how your career has progressed and the successes you have achieved.
Tag us in any of your stories on social media and use #SolentForLife.
You can also complete our alumni case study form.
Complete the form

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-facts-and-figures/graduate-outcomes:
Developing work ready, world ready, future ready graduates that achieve successful outcomes is at the core of who we are at Solent.
Our variety of support services, approach to teaching and learning and engagement with external partners enables our students to develop the skills and knowledge required for their future.
Fifteen months after completing their studies, Solent students are invited to complete the Graduate Outcomes survey.
This national survey captures information about the activities and perspectives of graduates 15 months after they finish their studies.
Completing this study allows current and future students to gain an insight into the career destinations and development of those who studied at Solent.
Responses also help Solent to evaluate individual courses and further enhance its portfolio.
On this page you can find further information on Solent’s most recent Graduate Outcomes results along with details on what to expect for any Solent graduate about to complete the survey.
It’s amazing how quickly time passes!
Fifteen months on from completing your studies you will be asked to participate in the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
Whether you are in full time employment, further study or started your own business, the survey aims to capture what you are currently doing, and you will initially be contacted by email and invited to complete the survey.
If following this you have not completed the survey you will receive a phone call and SMS reminders.
The Graduate Outcomes survey is owned by HESA, the Higher Education Statistics Agency.
HESA supports the advancement of the higher education sector by collecting and publishing timely and reliable data about the sector.
The administration of the Graduate Outcomes survey is undertaken by a third-party survey contractor who works in collaboration with HESA.
The University has a statutory responsibility to share with HESA the most up to date contact details that we hold on record for you.
If you are unsure as to whether you have provided your most up to date contact details we recommend that you update your details here .
If we don’t hold your most up to date details you won’t be able to participate in the survey and you may also be missing out on exclusive benefits and opportunities that are available to you through your alumni network .
Even if you are in touch with academic staff at the University make sure your details are formally recorded using the update your details form.
Your responses will be used by Solent University and by other organisations for research purposes.
Before you start the survey, we will provide detailed information about how your data will be processed, who will receive it, and what they will use it for.
It is not compulsory to complete the survey.
When you are contacted by the survey organisation, you will be able to opt out and you will not be contacted again.
We hope you will choose to complete the survey however if not, it’s important to opt-out as you will receive further communications until you do so.
Solent Careers is here to help.
Solent Careers is your careers, employability and enterprise service.
We offer careers support for life - you can find out more about how we support graduates here.
We understand that deciding on a career path and searching for jobs can be a daunting process.
Contact the team at careers@solent.ac.uk now for support and sign up to Solent Careers Online for access to hundreds of graduate opportunities, and more.
Get in touch with our Communities Development Team via alumni@solent.ac.uk .
It’s a good idea to make sure the contact details we hold for you are up to date.
Please visit the 'edit my details' portal app - It's vital that you let the University know if you've got a new address, phone number or have changed your name.
Solent Careers offer support to current students and graduates who are looking to take the next step following Graduation.
From helping you to secure your first role to providing advice on how to set-up your own business we offer a range of support services.
Further information on how Solent Careers can support you can be found on the student portal .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/business-solutions/innovation-vouchers:
Are you an SME business which has:
If so, we can offer your business a grant of up to £5,000 that be used to access our range of business solutions.
Grants are awarded to organisations that are able to demonstrate a key business challenge; this could be a diversification strategy; development of a proof of concept or product enhancement and testing.
The programme aims to support SMEs within Hampshire to access research and promote the acquisition of skills and transfer of knowledge between industry and the University.
We have expertise in areas including maritime, health care and wellbeing, professional services, creative industries, data science and AI, and engineering.
Participation in the scheme follows five simple stages that we will support you throughout, these are:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/business-solutions/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
Unlock the full potential of your business with a Knowledge Transfer Partnership – a unique collaboration between your company, our expert academics, and a talented graduate.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are a UK-wide programme funded by Innovate UK, designed to help businesses enhance competitiveness, productivity, and performance.
A KTP can connect your business with Solent University, giving you direct access to specialist knowledge, cutting-edge research, and expert academic support to tackle key challenges and drive innovation.
At the heart of the partnership is a Knowledge Transfer Associate (KTA) — a highly skilled graduate or postgraduate, recruited specifically to work on your project.
They operate within your business applying academic expertise to deliver strategic improvements, develop new products or processes, and embed valuable skills that drive long-term success.
As part of the KTP partnership Innovate UK will provide regional experts called Knowledge Transfer Advisers (KTAs) to foster the partnership and offer extensive experience, independent advice and a commitment to the delivery of successful KTP.
A KTP offers a powerful solution for businesses facing complex challenges, enabling you to benefit from a collaborative approach that combines academic excellence with real-world industry impact.
A KTP is part-funded by UKRI through Innovate UK, with the remaining costs covered by the business partner.
Depending on the nature of the project, businesses may be able to offset costs through R&D tax relief.
While project costs can vary, they typically range from £80,000 to £100,000 per year.
Funding support is available at a:
The cost of a KTP is comparable to hiring a well-qualified graduate or postgraduate, but the value it delivers extends far beyond recruitment, covering:
A KTP is an investment in innovation, talent, and long-term business success, offering far more than a conventional hire.
By engaging in a KTP, businesses gain access to cutting-edge research and expertise while achieving measurable, long-term benefits.
An independent evaluation of KTPs commissioned by Innovate UK (2010–2020) highlighted the significant impact the programme has had on participating businesses.
The findings demonstrate how KTPs drive innovation, business growth, and academic collaboration, ensuring companies remain competitive in their industry.
The key benefits reported by businesses included:
A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) is a powerful way to drive innovation and growth, connecting your business with academic expertise to solve real-world challenges.
Here’s how it works:
KTPs are ideal for businesses of all sizes and sectors looking to enhance productivity, develop new technologies, or embed expertise that will give them a competitive edge in the market.
Whether you're an SME, multinational, or non-profit organisation, a KTP can provide the resources and expertise needed to drive innovation and achieve your strategic goals.
Here’s what you’ll need if you are interested in exploring the opportunity of a KTP:
Partnering with us to create a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) could be the key to unlocking new opportunities, drive innovation, and gaining a competitive edge.
Whether you have a specific challenge in mind or want to explore how our academic expertise can support your growth, we’re here to help.
Our team will be happy to guide you through the process, from initial discussions to securing funding and project delivery.
To express your interest and have an initial discussion about the programme enter your details here and a member of the team will be in touch.
https://app.geckoform.com/public/#/modern/21FO00j3sbbmzh002tjf6y7rfp

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/solent-careers/i-want-to-connect-with-your-students:
Working with Solent students is a great way to utilise their skills for your business and to give our students essential experience in the professional world.
It can be a great way to source talent and to develop closer links with the University.
Our students develop a range of skills while at university, ranging from teamwork, to project management and self-awareness.
Our students are motivated and passionate and want to make a difference.
We encourage them to self-reflect and be critical thinkers - all key skills that translate into the world of work.
We have thousands of students who are actively looking for part-time work, whether directly related to their course or not.
Available in the evenings, weekends, and at occasional times during weekdays, students can bring a unique perspective and enthusiasm to any business.
Register your business now
Already registered with Solent Careers Online?
Log in now
Work experience is extremely valuable to students as it shows evidence of their skills, commitment and understanding of the industry.
We know that without experience, particularly in sectors such as media, advertising and journalism, it can be very difficult to compete for work - for many students, unpaid work experience provides a route into these industries.
We are always looking for employers to offer work experience - it's a great way to identify future employees, so please get in touch!
Email us
A placement is a role in your organisation undertaken by a student for a planned period.
Solent has a really flexible approach to placements and they can range from one day a week, to a block in summer, and year long.
The aim of a placement is to bridge the gap between academic study and professional experience.
A placement offers:
We welcome interest from prospective mentors who want to participate in our student mentoring programme at Solent.
Mentors will work one-to-one with talented students and give them an employer insight into future graduate career paths.
We will provide support.
Both mentors and mentees describe the experience they gained as invaluable.
Please watch the videos below for more information.
Fill in the form to register your interest in becoming a mentor
Get a fresh perspective on a project or challenge - deliver a brief to groups of our innovative, creative students, and pick the best ideas from the talent pool.
This approach is ideal for starting or developing areas which you otherwise would not have the resource to deliver.
Recently, some our our BA (Hons) Public Relations and Communications students took part in a live brief to pitch a public relations campaign to a local agency as part of their digital PR unit.
Find out what happened
Volunteering offers valuable experience to individuals while supporting non-profit organisations.
We encourage students to undertake volunteering activity during their time with us, either during the holiday periods or in term time.
Contact us to find out more
Employing graduates into your business or organisation can be extremely rewarding.
Graduates represent some of the brightest and well-educated sectors of the employment market - they have great enthusiasm and are highly motivated.
Many of our graduates have already been working while at university, and their course would have prepared them for industry.
We can help you to advertise graduate roles from graduate schemes to internships.
Our students are enterprising.
Many of them start up their own business - we support them all the way through and you can get involved too!
Whether you have a start up or you would like to mentor or support students or graduates who are starting their own business, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/solent-careers/i-want-to-advertise-a-job:
Advertise your vacancy to Solent students or graduates using Solent Careers Online.
Here you can post graduate positions as well as placements, work experience roles, part-time or casual work, or volunteering opportunities.
Please note, all opportunities must adhere to our vacancy policy .
If you don't yet have a Solent Careers Online account:
Register your company now
If you have already registered with Solent Careers Online:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/business-solutions/work-placements:
If you have never taken on a university student for a placement before, you might be wondering what’s in it for you.
The short answer?
Quite a lot.
Offering a student placement opportunity can benefit your business from the latest industry insights, providing extra resources to a current project and offering development opportunities for your existing staff through management and mentoring.
Student placements are beneficial for students to apply their academic learning but can also bring real value to your business too.
It also helps you to spot future talent early on!
Read our placement employer handbook
Solent has a flexible approach to placements and work-based learning, therefore, depending on the course, you will find different placement requirements.
A short-term placement opportunity is usually offered and advertised by employers, although it may also be secured through a speculative application.
Taken by students at any level of study in vacation time or part-time during an academic year.
A placement equivalent of a year’s academic study.
Typically taken by undergraduate students as the penultimate year of their course.
Generally, these are 35 hours per week over 36 weeks.
Informal activities where a student will spend time on company premises but will have no contract or expectation of making a working contribution; it is an observation opportunity.
We do encourage our placement students to undertake paid placements, especially if their placement is full time for a full year.
Many placement organisations in the UK currently pay between £18,000 and 23,000 per year.
We are aware it is not always possible to offer fully paid placements, however we would then look for students to be reimbursed for expenses including travel and meals.
Many courses offer placements or work-based learning.
To give you a clearer understanding of the courses that offer placements please see the link below.
Courses that offer a placement year
If hiring a placement student is the answer to your business challenge, or you have any queries about what could be available, please contact placements@solent.ac.uk who will be able to support you and get your placement opportunity live.
You can also visit Solent Careers Online for more information and other ways we can support businesses.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/community/business-solutions-in-action:
Take a look at how we are already working with industry to enable business growth and development, while also impacting upon wider society.
Official University Partner
Southampton Solent University and Southampton Football Club have a long history of working together, enabling student success and developing work-ready, world-ready, future-ready graduates.
Located a stone’s throw away from St Mary’s Stadium, the home of the Saints, Southampton Solent is proud to be the Club’s official university partner.
In recent years, the relationship between the two institutions has grown significantly, with BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy students at the forefront of hands-on learning within the elite sports environment.
Extending beyond placements, the partnership has also seen Saints’ medical staff visit Solent’s East Park Terrace to address students.
The collaboration also stretches across Solent's creative courses.
BA (Hons) Television Production students had the opportunity to shadow operations in the public address room at St Mary’s Stadium, offering a behind-the-scenes look at live sports broadcasting.
Discover more about the partnership
Our partnership with Southampton Solent University is our longest standing partnership, spanning more than ten years and running across numerous aspects of the club, from the Foundation to matchday media.
The University has provided us with invaluable resources with students volunteering in a number of community projects, while also working on key research opportunities across the business.
The partnership is built on true shared values and has evolved over the years to become a key pillar of support within our women’s team as we both look to increase the involvement of females within football and sport as a whole.
A Solent University academic was partnered with local charity Communicare, which works to eradicate loneliness, following the successful application for grant funding.
The research, will be used to create a new way of evaluating Communicare’s output and impact, will be supported by an advisory group made up of 20 volunteers and service users.
Additionally, two Solent students will be recruited as co-researchers, giving them the opportunity to gain experience in real-world research.
Developing future coaching and training methods
The Utilita Bowl partners with Southampton Solent University to undertake research that will help develop the club’s coaching and training methods.
Through funding a one-year Master's by Research (MRes), the Utilita Bowl can access University expertise and facilities to undertake the work.
Law Clinic Partner
Solent University and Dutton Gregory Solicitors have partnered to establish the Solent Law Clinic.
Launched in February 2025, the Clinic was set up to enhance accessibility to legal services while giving LLB (Hons) Law students the opportunity to gain client experience, supported by Dutton Gregory’s Head of Family, Jonathan Whettingsteel.
Client results have been hugely positive in Solent Law Clinic’s first quarter, with 100% satisfaction among service users.
More than 70% of clients have also had their matter concluded, which highlights how additional services like these can relieve pressure on existing providers.
Beyond the suit with Business South
In collaboration with Business South, we have created a podcast that draws on their little black book of top business leaders and the technical know-how of our talented staff and students.
The podcast provides insight into those running major businesses and organisations across the Central South.
It provides a chance to find out more about the person beyond the suit and hear about everything from their career route to what really makes them tick.
View the most recent episodes on YouTube or search ‘Bizz Buzz’ on all major streaming services.
The idea of working with the students came about as the result of conversation with Southampton Solent University’s Vice-Chancellor at one of our Directors Dinners.
We have the contacts and know the business leaders who have interesting stories to tell, while the students have the technical expertise to record those conversations so we can share them with a wider audience.
Take a look at the leaders helping inform our future.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/community/community-meeting-space:
Our city centre campus is at the heart of the local community and through our civic charter we have committed to providing community organisations with access to one of our on-site meeting spaces.
Our on-site meeting space will be available once a month for up to three hours.
Perfect for hosting committee or local partnership meetings, workshops, or training for a maximum of 22 people.
The space is available to registered charities and social enterprises.
Organisations can make use of the room twice in a year and is offered on a first come, first serve basis.
The room is offered in boardroom and workshop styles with guest access to our Wi-Fi network.
Our campus is conveniently located near to the city’s main transport hubs and offers outside cycle rack facilities.
To register your interest in using the meeting room, please complete this form .
Completing this form does not automatically confirm your booking and you should not make further arrangements until you have heard back from us.
We will respond to queries within five working days.
If you have any questions, feel free to email us .
Organisations eligible to make use of the space must conform to one of the following definitions:
Our booking policy and full terms and conditions can be found here .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/business-solutions/venue-hire:
At Southampton Solent University, we offer a range of campus facilities available for hire, providing versatile spaces suited for conferences, meetings, events, and more.
Our rental rates are designed to be competitive while ensuring access to high-quality venues that meet your needs.
Facility hire is subject to availability, and we encourage early bookings to secure your preferred space.
Enquire about booking a space
Prices from:
£50 (ex VAT) £60 (inc VAT)
£225 (ex VAT) £270 (inc VAT)
£350 (ex VAT) £420 (inc VAT)
£90 (ex VAT) £108 (inc VAT)
£405 (ex VAT) £486 (inc VAT)
£630 (ex VAT) £756 (inc VAT)
£157 (ex VAT) £188 (inc VAT)
£707 (ex VAT) £848 (inc VAT)
£1,100 (ex VAT) £1,320 (inc VAT)
£30 (ex VAT) £36 (inc VAT)
£135 (ex VAT) £162 (inc VAT)
£210 (ex VAT) £252 (inc VAT)
£18 (ex VAT) £22 (inc VAT)
£81 (ex VAT) £97 (inc VAT)
£126 (ex VAT) £151 (inc VAT)
£70 (ex VAT) £84 (inc VAT)
£315 (ex VAT) £378 (inc VAT)
£490 (ex VAT) £588 (inc VAT)
£80 (ex VAT) £96 (inc VAT)
£360 (ex VAT) £432 (inc VAT)
£560 (ext VAT) £672 (inc VAT)
£25 (ex VAT) £30 (inc VAT)

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/business-solutions/saints-fc-partnership:
In July 2021 we announced a strategic partnership with the club, building upon the strong foundations already established.
The partnership will see Solent and Saints collaborating to attract, retain and develop future learners and sporting talent while growing Southampton’s reputation as a leading global destination for sports coaching and development.
With ambitious plans to grow Saints' presence in the women’s game, Solent and Saints are working together to recruit, retain and develop the women’s game.
Our partnership will see Solent and Saints develop and promote education and career pathways, offering exclusive opportunities and taster experiences that attract and retain leading talent to the South coast.
This activity will be amplified throughout the season, with Solent’s logo sitting proudly on the sleeve of Southampton FC’s women’s team.
Our Test Park facility will also host training sessions for Saints Regional Talent Club throughout the season.
We’ll be getting behind the team throughout the year, celebrating success and offering academic insight and enrichment activities.
Students from a range of courses across the University will gain access to real-world industry experience at the Club, with some experiences now embedded within our curriculum.
Students studying on the BSc (Hons) Football Studies course will receive over 20 hours of professional coaching and development from the Southampton FC coaching team.
Meanwhile students studying on our BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching degree have the chance to participate in a range of volunteering projects with both young people and older adults, positively impacting the community and supporting student learning
Many of our students have gone on to secure employment at the Club, with our alumni community working in a variety of roles at Saints, from supporting the first team at the Club's training ground, to back-office support functions.
Since 2014, students on the University's sport coaching degree have participated in a range of volunteering projects with both young people and older adults, positively impacting the community and supporting student learning.
BA (Hons) Sports Journalism and MA Sports Broadcast Journalism students have received the unique opportunity to experience multiple matchdays from a press perspective.
Adam Whyte, Social Media Lead at Southampton FC and sports journalism graduate, tells us how his degree opened the doors to a successful career in the football industry.
With research and knowledge exchange a priority for Solent, we’ll be working with the Club to develop academic-led research projects that will help to influence the future of the game.
Working in partnership through the Football Science and Performance Research Group , we are combining academic research with applied learnings and insights from the Club to shape the game both on and off the pitch.
Our student community will also be at the forefront of our research and knowledge exchange activity, working with the Club’s charitable arm, the Saints Foundation on community-focused projects that deliver long-term impact to our local communities.
Fans and the local community will also get involved through our public engagement activity.
Throughout the duration of the partnership Solent and Saints branding will be clearly visible at St Mary’s Stadium, creating a sense of community and togetherness.
Our student, staff and alumni community will also be getting involved in matchday activity.
Celebrating the success and achievements of those involved in activity on and off the pitch will play a central role.
A number of Saints legends are Honorary Doctorates at the University, with Matt Le Tissier, Francis Benali and Lawrie McMenemy among those who have received recognition.
We’ll be regularly sharing stories on how our communities are benefiting from the partnership - keep an eye on this page for updates.
Interested in discovering more about the partnership or getting involved with the activity?
If so, get in touch with our Communities Development Team.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/business-solutions/impact-boards:
As a civic university shaping work-ready graduates, we recognise the importance of working in collaboration with a range of organisations across the private, public and voluntary sectors.
As well as providing mutually beneficial opportunities through our collaborations, we welcome the expertise and insight of senior leaders to help inform curriculum development, enable student success, and be a catalyst for knowledge exchange.
Our impact boards are at the centre of this, providing a platform for the region’s prominent growth sectors to inform the University’s future development.
Below you can find details on the current membership of these boards.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/civic-charter:
Southampton Solent is a modern university of and for the city and of and for our city region.
Our purpose is to transform the lives of our students, our stakeholders, and our communities through work-ready, practice-led learning and teaching, research, and innovation.
We are committed to creating access to excellence, opening the door for people to develop their skills, nurture their ideas, and exchange knowledge across communities.
Our courses, staff, learners, stakeholders, and alumni reflect the changing local, national and global communities we serve.
We are proud to produce work ready, world ready, and future ready graduates and, as a university, we strive to be ready for the future in all we do.
Our proud heritage in the Southampton art and design school, in the school of navigation, and the college of technology embody how we have grown and evolved in line with our home city, its global networks, and outlook.
As business and society have adapted, so has Southampton Solent.
Today we occupy a beautiful heart of the city site, blessed with outstanding facilities, enveloped by the city parkland.
We sit at an intersection that connects us across the city and the region and beyond to the global connections of the port.
We are a knowledge crossroads, where our open campus brings business and education together, breaking down boundaries that have impeded educational, economic, and social progress.
Our impact reaches far and wide, with the institution acting as a diffusion engine well beyond the city region.
Knowledge, innovation and inspiration ripple out across Hampshire and our further-afield communities, with our network of Southampton Solent global alumni going on to build successful working lives, contributing positively to the economy.
Southampton Solent has an international reputation in maritime – working across all aspects from crew training, research innovation in design, new engine and fuel technologies, safety, and sustainability.
We train many regional health professionals and are ambitious to do more to contribute to the health and wellbeing of our local communities though our sports centre, health clinics, sports coaching, and staff and student volunteering.
We actively support the region’s growing cultural scene, especially the development of digital media and storytelling, as well as building artist development programmes, encouraging business start-ups, and performing live gigs at city venues.
Aligned with our inclusive values, our outreach activities focus on supporting access to education through literacy and numeracy programmes, or by encouraging women into STEM subjects.
We deliver community law clinics; we inspire residents to live healthy, active lives; we are a University of Sanctuary - in all we do we utilise our skills, knowledge, and resources to fuel the region’s inclusive growth.
We champion the region’s strengths, recognise its challenges and seize the opportunity to work collaboratively and build a fairer, sustainable future for all.
Our commitment to practice-led learning and research provides opportunities for business and society to shape our future provision in line with our institutional values , and we are committed to working closely with stakeholders, to agile co-design and leading technological/digital innovation.
Our connections, resources and knowledge allow us to make an impact on the issues that we believe can make the greatest difference:
Our purpose is to drive economic and social prosperity and wellbeing for our city and city region.
Southampton Solent commits to working in partnership with the region and our signatories to:
Since 1856 we have been transforming lives, providing the skills, training and qualifications to enable individual and organisational growth.
Our strategic commitment to become a multiversity will enable people of all ages across the region and beyond to achieve their full potential, immersing themselves in our rich knowledge and experiences regardless of their background.
Together we will:
Join us and be part of it
Located in the heart of Southampton, our location will form the core of our identity and purpose.
We will bring our staff and students together with our partners to exchange ideas, cocreate good growth, and develop practice-led opportunities.
Our approach will underpin regional excellence in the development and application of knowledge and innovation to build prosperity and growth.
We are Southampton Solent
From global brands to business start-ups, Southampton and the Central South region is a major economic powerhouse of the UK.
Together we will innovate and identify sustainable solutions to the challenges that limit business growth and development, while taking full cognisance of its environmental impact.
Together we will equip tomorrow’s leaders with the skills and experiences to help them make informed decisions and be positive advocates of Southampton Solent and the region on a global platform.
We are Ready for the Future

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/community/university-of-sanctuary:
At Solent, we are committed to providing a fair, diverse and cohesive environment that challenges and tackles social inequality.
Our work on campus and in the local community aims to build a welcoming culture, based on mutual trust, fairness, harmony and respect.
Our vision is to transform people’s lives, regardless of their background, through providing learning, teaching and experiences that are relevant to the real world.
Located in a diverse and culturally enriched community, Solent welcomes people seeking sanctuary, including asylum seekers and refugees.
Since 2017, when Southampton City Council welcomed 25 Syrian families into the city, we have offered a scholarship to Syrian national refugees, enabling those who have fled their war-torn home to access the benefits of higher education and build a better life.
With a history of working with our local community and welcoming those in need, we were delighted to achieve University of Sanctuary status in December 2023.
This UK-wide initiative aims to ensure universities foster a welcome and inclusive culture for asylum seekers and refugees.
Being awarded University of Sanctuary is just one example of the University’s commitment to public engagement .
Public engagement at Solent University is formed of two strategic priorities from the 2025 strategy , Engaging with our Communities and Research and Knowledge Exchange.
We are also a proud signatory of the City of Sanctuary pledge .
I am excited to be working with Solent University and proud to support their commitments to widening their welcome and access to people seeking sanctuary.
At a time when this is needed most, Solent is a great example of a university working collaboratively with their community to learn about the barriers people seeking sanctuary can face and working together to overcome them.
We look forward to learning from Solent and welcoming them into the network.
A network of nominated colleagues across the University, forming a working group, are driving the initiative, ensuring that we make a difference to people seeking sanctuary.
Here you can discover how Solent is welcoming people seeking sanctuary and fostering a culture of welcome and inclusion for all.
If you would like to find out more or get involved, please get in touch .
Support as an applicant
Monika Materna-Brossier is our named contact for the Solent Sanctuary Scholarship Scheme.
Monika will provide one-to-one support to any person seeking sanctuary with their application to the University and the scheme, along with being a friendly face to our successful sanctuary scholars.
Monika is an international student adviser in the International Office, providing information, advice, and guidance to international students across the University.
She contributes a wealth of experience to the team on immigration and study visas and has been at Solent since 2018.
If you wish to apply for the scheme or find out more, email Monika at sanctuary@solent.ac.uk .
Support as a student
There are lots of ways for students to get help and support once a sanctuary scholar, in addition to our named contact, Rozenn.
Whether you have a problem with your course, finances, personal life or mental health, Student Services are here to help.
They will endeavour to answer your query and if they can’t, they will find the appropriate person or specialist team to do so.
The Student Hub at Solent University is the first point of contact for any queries relating to your course or any personal matters which may be affecting your studies at the University.
You can visit them in person at East Park Terrace, email student.hub@solent.ac.uk or call 023 8201 5200.
More information about the Solent Sanctuary Scholarship Scheme
In support of our vision and values as a university, each year Solent awards one Solent Sanctuary Scholarship consisting of a full yearly fee waiver and a £3,000 grant to a person seeking sanctuary studying on a three-year undergraduate programme.
Eligibility criteria and further information, including how to apply
People seeking sanctuary are likely to be able to apply for a contextual offer, which is a scheme where applicants who meet specific criteria may receive lower entry offers than standard (based on their context and individual circumstances).
Those who meet the contextual offer criteria should apply through the usual UCAS process and also use the self-declaration form if they feel they meet additional criteria.
Monika Materna-Brossier, International Student Adviser, can support people seeking sanctuary through the application process.
If they do not yet have a conditional or unconditional offer from Solent University, we can also help them with this process.
Please get in touch .
Our plan moving forward
We have created a three-year plan, from August 2021 through to July 2024, which will ensure we continue to develop a culture of welcome.
The working group created the plan in consultation with students, staff, academics, alumni and external partners who are part of Solent’s University of Sanctuary Network.
The plan includes everything from undertaking widening participation activities with people seeking sanctuary through to supporting Southampton’s School of Sanctuary network.
You can see the full plan here.
As we implement the plan, we will keep this page up to date with our successes and impact.
Read our three-year plan
Examples of how we’ve been creating a culture of welcome
Enabling fair access: Contextual offers and scholarship schemes - Ongoing Solent is a proud champion of widening participation, which is at the core of our operations and our culture.
In 2020 we introduced our contextual offers scheme.
The scheme uses additional information gained through contextual data to support our admissions process where we will identify disadvantaged students, their achievement and potential to succeed in the context of their background and experience, encourage application and make lower offers to support access.
Refugees and asylum seekers are eligible for the scheme.
In 2021 we also launched the Solent Sanctuary Scholarship scheme in addition to our scholarship scheme for Syrian national refugees.
Engaging our students: BA (Hons) Sociology module - Migration and Refugees - Ongoing Our third year sociology students have the option to undertake a module that develops their understanding of the various push and pull factors that drive global migration.
The module enables learners to appreciate the connected and on-going movement of people as they live as residents of a nation, transnational migrants, settled citizens, refugees, and asylum seekers.
Engaging our communities: Solent’s Showcase Gallery Narratives of Displacement Exhibition - January to March 2020 Based on a dialogue with internationally renowned artist Dr Rachel Gadsden, Solent’s Showcase Gallery presented exhibitions examining different experiences of the same themes: displacement, identity and social perception.
The first exhibition, Narratives of Displacement explored the use of art as a form to help refugee women tell their stories.
Over 1200 members of the public visited the exhibition.
The pieces in the exhibition were created by Iraqi and Syrian women who have found refuge in Germany, the UK and Jordan.
Driving research and knowledge exchange Hierarchical Assemblages of Citizenship and Belonging: The Pedestrian Speech Acts of Gujarati Indian Walkers , Dr Aarti Ratna, 2019
Sustainable Refugee Migration: A Rethink towards a Positive Capability Approach , Dr Mohammed Al-Husban, Solent University, 2016
City of Sanctuary is a national charity that holds the vision that our nations will be welcoming places of safety for all and proud to offer sanctuary to people fleeing violence and persecution.
City of Sanctuary UK, the umbrella organisation, has supported the development of a network of groups, which includes villages, towns, cities and regions across the UK, and others engaged in Streams of Sanctuary, Sanctuary Awards and activities intended to welcome people seeking sanctuary.
The Universities of Sanctuary stream is an initiative to recognise the good practice of universities that welcome people seeking sanctuary into their communities and seek to foster a culture of awareness and inclusivity.
A growing number of universities now being recognised as Universities of Sanctuary.
There is a range of local organisations and charities working with people seeking sanctuary in and around Southampton:
Through Universities UK #TwinForHope campaign Solent University is twinned with the Admiral Makarov National University of Shipbuilding, Ukraine.
The Southampton Sanctuary Network founded by City Life Church, Solent University and Southampton City Council was launched in October 2023 building upon previous work undertaken by the Southampton City of Sanctuary charity.
Meeting four times a year, sessions provide an opportunity for knowledge exchange between community-based organisations and academia who are supporting sanctuary seekers to collaborate, share best practice and learn from one another.
To join the network and receive an invite to the next meeting please complete this form .
We’re working with a range of external partners and organisation to enable our plan .
We are always interested in hearing about ways we can work together on new incentives and ideas for projects involving or helping people seeking sanctuary.
For example, we can help find volunteers as all Solent staff are entitled to a day’s paid volunteering a year.
Please get in touch to let us know more.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/community/residential-neighbourhoods:
Most of our first-year students live in student residences, but for the remainder of their studies, most move into privately-rented housing.
Many houses in the Polygon area are occupied by a mix of people, from students to non-student, and residents of all ages.
Together with the Students' Union, we work closely with Southampton City Council and Hampshire Police to try and resolve any problems and to create positive awareness campaigns about being a good neighbour.
If you are a local resident and you have incurred a problem (for example noise nuisance or anti-social behaviour) from groups believed to be Solent University's students, you are advised to contact Southampton City Council's Environmental Health team in the first instance or alternatively you can contact the police on the non-emergency number 101 or Southampton City Council
You can also register your community complaint with the University for us to investigate the matter by completing our complaint form .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/community/health-4-her:
Promoting a healthy life, body and mind to ladies within the local community.
Sessions are free to attend with free fitness equipment provided to participants to use within sessions and to take home for personal use.
Health 4 Her teaches health literacy, encourages a healthier lifestyle, supports behaviour change, boosts confidence, and increases social cohesion.
The programme encourages healthy eating as well as weight loss.
Sessions consist of a 10-minute wellness talk followed by a 50-minute moderate intensity exercise session.
Topics include, but are not limited to, diet and nutrition, hydration, exercising at home, injury prevention, 5 ways to wellbeing mental health, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, sleep and stress.
Participants are consulted on a regular basis in regard to what they would like to learn and discuss.
Wellness packs related to the topics covered at each session will be provided alongside additional resources each week to encourage sustainability at an individual level.
Homework outs are given as part of the resource pack to enable participants to train on days sessions are not running.
Body MOT health checks are performed regularly to measure impact on health.
It also allows participants to find out more about their current health status, ask any questions and receive support to help make any lifestyle changes to improve their health.
Health 4 Her was conceptualised by a group of students as part of their Community Innovation Project in 2015 and has gone on to secure funding from ‘This Girl Can’, enabling Solent to offer sessions across the city and provide 150 home exercise kits.
Sessions run in blocks of 12 weeks throughout the year with current sessions held at the Solent Sports Complex on our East Park Terrace campus.
If you know of a community group within Southampton who might benefit from the project, please get in touch by emailing us or calling us on 023 8201 3671.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/before-you-arrive:
Before you join Solent, you will be provided with induction timetables, online pre-registration instructions, language class schedules and accommodation support - helping to make your move to the UK as straightforward as possible.
Guide to faster travel through the UK border
For additional information or to ask a question specific to your application, please contact the international team on international@solent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/keep-in-touch:
Solent University is home to a community of over 100 different nationalities.
In-fact, students from overseas make up around 14% of all students here on campus.
If you are thinking of joining them, we can offer a range specialist support both before, during and after your studies.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/international/study-abroad-incoming-exchange:
Solent University welcomes incoming exchange students from our partner universities, and short-term fee paying students into our study abroad programme.
Here, you'll find everything you need know about how to apply and what to expect.
Study periods abroad allow you to experience a different culture and add an international dimension to your curriculum vitae.
Support and induction programmes are available for all students coming to study here with us.
For students who would like to study with us outside of an exchange partnership, we offer a Study Abroad programme.
This course allows international students to study with us for either a semester or a year.
You can find more information about our Study Abroad programme here
Solent University welcomes incoming students on an exchange basis.
Studying and living in the UK is an excellent opportunity and experience and these students bring their cultural background and contribute to the student experience.
Incoming exchange students enhance the richness and diversity of the experience of studying at Solent University for all our students.
We offer a broad range of study pathways - these are listed on the module choices for exchanges and Study Abroad students page.
All exchange students need to demonstrate sufficient English language skills.
B2 level is required in all components (Reading, Writing, Listening and Speaking).
You will be required to show proof of your level of English with an English test certificate or a letter from your institution.
Students who require a visa will need to meet any additional requirements around English language set down by the University.
See the University's English requirements
The visa application process for study after 1 January 2021 will depend on your nationality.
For study up to six months, you will be subject to short-term student visa requirements.
Please see our visas and immigration page for more information.
As the UK Government issues guidance for EU, EEA and Swiss national students, this website will be updated.
To apply for a place as an exchange student at Solent University you will first need to be formally nominated by your home university.
On receipt of your nomination, the academic partnerships office will email you with details of the application process, including the online application form.
Please see the nomination and application deadlines below.
All nominations should be sent to the Study Abroad and Exchange team no later than:
To nominate a student, partner universities are requested to email international.mobility@solent.ac.uk for details about the nomination process.
If you have any questions about our exchange programmes or partnerships, please contact the International Office on international.mobility@solent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-policies-and-legal-information/details-of-charity-exemption:
This page provides information to fulfil the requirements of the Office for Students which requires all higher education institutions that are exempt charities to establish a gateway page on their website, linking to information about their charitable status.
This information will be updated no later than six months after the end of the previous academic year.
Southampton Solent University Higher Education Corporation
East Park Terrace, Southampton, SO14 0YN
The Instrument of Government sets out the constitution of the institution's governing body.
The Articles of Government sets out (a) the regulations that govern the conduct of the University; (b) the responsibilities of the governing body, Vice-Chancellor and Academic Board, and (c) the procedures for meetings of the governing body.
View Instrument of Government adopted 4 December 2024
View Instrument of Government adopted 1 August 2024
View Articles of Government adopted 6 December 2022
View Instrument of Government adopted 25 November 2020
View Instrument of Government adopted 22 November 2017
View Instrument of Government adopted 15 July 2015
View Instrument of Government adopted 8 July 2005
View Articles of Government adopted 22 November 2017
View Articles of Government adopted 15 July 2015
View Articles of Government adopted 8 July 2005
Southampton Solent University is overseen by a Board of Governors.
The Board of Governors is generally responsible for looking after the public investment and the public interest at the University.
There are normally 19 governors, most of whom are voluntary independent members, drawn from business.
They bring to the board a blend of commercial, professional and life experience.
There are also internal members, including the Vice-Chancellor, two staff and the President and Vice-President of the Students' Union.
View a list of Governors who were serving on the Board as at 31 January 2025
View the University's current Governors
The statement on public benefit within the financial statements confirm that the institution has regard to Charity Commission guidance on reporting how it delivers its charitable objectives 'for the public benefit'.
View the University's financial statements

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/donate-to-solent/our-fundraising-priorities:
Solent’s Local Student Bursary Scheme supports the next generation of students from our local community.
It enables students from disadvantaged backgrounds to follow in the footsteps of our alumni and access the University’s first-class facilities, award-winning teaching and workplace-focused, industry-led courses.
With your support, each year a £1,000 bursary will be awarded to as many students as possible.
This bursary will support local students who may not be able to finance their studies and help enrich their experience at university.
These students will have a low household income and be from an admissions address of a UK ‘SO’ household postcode, the Isle of Wight and/or from our partner sixth form schools and colleges.
As a city-based university, we pride ourselves on promoting and supporting fair access for all.
It’s what we believe is fair, and it’s responsible for the lively, diverse, and inclusive environment at Solent.
Our community, and region we serve is home to a diverse economy, with cutting edge industry and global connections.
Despite Southampton’s huge economic growth and success, inequality is felt across the city with some neighbourhoods falling within the most deprived nationally.
Low educational attainment and subsequent low participation in higher education are amongst contributing factors - together, we have the power to change this.
Higher education offers new possibilities to a brighter future, and it can help reduce inequality.
We want to support aspiring students from our local community to experience all that Solent has to offer, and shape the future around them.
Through your kind donation you will enable students to gain invaluable skills and knowledge that will prepare them to succeed after graduation.
With 40 per cent of Solent University’s alumni remaining in Hampshire after graduation, your support will have a meaningful, lasting impact on our students, as well as our local community for generations to come
Donate now to our Local Student Bursary Scheme

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/donate-to-solent/ways-to-donate:
We’re so pleased that you’re interested in changing the lives of our students.
Your support will make a real difference.
Here’s how you can donate:
Make a single donation online via debit or credit card.
Donate now
You can also send a cheque or CAF cheque made payable to Solent University .
Through Payroll Giving, you can make a regular donation while benefitting from tax relief - for example, every £10 you give will only cost you £8, saving £2 at the basic tax rate (higher rate taxpayers will only pay £6).
If you would like to use this scheme please ask your payroll department for an application form.
Please also contact us at giving@solent.ac.uk to tell us about your donation and let us know which regular giving fund you would like it directed to.
Gifts of shares enable you to give or sell shares to the University.
This can reduce your income tax bill, and Capital Gains Tax (CGT).
Gifts of land or buildings will reduce your income tax and exempt you from Capital Gains Tax.
If you would like to know more about donating shares, land or buildings, please email giving@solent.ac.uk or call 023 8201 6002.
Did you know you can raise money for student bursaries by organising your own fundraising?
Whether it’s a once in a lifetime challenge or a bake sale in the office, every effort counts and will have a transformative impact on the lives of Solent students.
Please email giving@solent.ac.uk or call 023 8201 6053.
Whether you are an alumnus, alumna, a former member of staff or a friend of the University, you can choose to remember Solent in your will.
No matter the size, your gift matters.
Legacy gifts are also tax exempt, so they can reduce the tax payable by your estate.
The University can benefit from your support in a variety of areas including student hardship, scholarships and bursaries, outreach activities, research and facilities for students.
Solent is always changing, so a legacy that is not dedicated to a particular area can have the greatest impact, as unrestricted gifts enable us to direct your support to areas of greatest need.
We’re happy to talk to you about any ideas you have, or any areas of the University that particularly interest to you.
If you have already left us a gift in your will, we would love to hear from you so we can thank you and keep in touch.
It would also help us ensure your wishes are met in the future.
If you would like to know more about leaving a gift in your will or tell us about your current provision in your will, please email giving@solent.ac.uk .
By making a donation to the University, you will receive an annual update on the impact of your support and be provided with an insight into some of the ways in which your donation has made a difference to our students, staff and Solent.
Gift Aid gives the University an extra 25p for every £1 you donate.
Gift Aid is designed to benefit charities.
If you’re a UK taxpayer, Gift Aid increases the value of your charity donations by 25% because the charity can reclaim the basic rate of tax on your gift at no extra cost to you.
For example, if you donate £100, the total value of your donation to the charity is £125 - so you can claim back:
If you are a higher rate taxpayer, you can claim the difference between the higher rate of tax and the current basic rate of tax of 20% on your self-assessment return.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/donate-to-solent/impact-stories:
Thanks to the outstanding generosity of our alumni, staff, and friends, we're proud to provide even greater support to our vibrant Southampton Solent student community.
Your contributions are making a real difference - empowering students, enriching their experiences, and shaping brighter futures.
In 2025, we proudly marked two major milestones: the 20th anniversary of achieving University status and the awarding of over £190,000 in bursary support to local students since the 2019/20 academic year.
This bursary programme plays a vital role in supporting students from some of the least advantaged communities across southern Hampshire, providing £1,000 bursaries to help ease the financial pressures of studying.
Below, you’ll find stories from a few of the students who have benefited from this support.
In the academic year 2024/25, we awarded 29 local bursaries.
Read what some of the recipients had to say:
“This bursary means so much to me and it will help me massively.
I will be able to afford different necessities for my course such as books that will help me get better grades.
I can use the money for food shops weekly so that I can get more food to eat and have a healthier diet.
It will enable me to also have money for other financial things like a deposit on a house for next year which I am struggling to find money for.
I can also use the money to be put towards travel to go home to visit my mum whilst she is having cancer treatment so that I can see her more often when I do not have lectures which I have not been able to do much due to not having the money to get back home.
This would also mean that she has someone by her side during this tough time.
Any leftover money will then be put towards a car to make it easier to travel to my mum and so that I have a way of travel next year when I have a house.
I am so unbelievably grateful for this, and I cannot thank you enough and it means more to me than I can express.
Thank you so much.
It means a lot to me, and it will go to good use.” BA (Hons) Criminology student, 2024/25 bursary recipient
“I’d like to say a massive thank you to the external donors of this bursary.
This money will greatly change my university experience because I will finally be able to fund a laptop!
Going into a career of videography a good laptop is definitely a necessity, so I am pleased to say that that purchase looks very doable thanks to the donors.
As well as the laptop, other hardware I could have a look at are some cameras, tripods, lights or microphone.
As well as this, this bursary will also go towards any struggles that I have at university outside of my studies.
Any food shops/ rent or bills are a major struggle for us students as we struggle to find the balance between work and university work.
This bursary will go a long way in supporting us financially.” BA (Hons) Film Production student, 2024/25 bursary recipient
“I am immensely thankful and thrilled to have been granted the Local Student Bursary.
This recognition will significantly impact my life, as it will alleviate my financial concerns and enable me to focus entirely on my academic pursuits.
The past decade has been tumultuous, particularly the recent years, during which I faced challenges I never imagined I would overcome.
With the support of others and effective therapy, I have embarked on a new and promising journey.
My aspiration is to become a mental health professional, assisting individuals who have encountered similar experiences.
Your support brings me closer to achieving my goals and advancing my education.
I extend my heartfelt gratitude to all the donors who made this award possible.
I truly appreciate the existence of this bursary, which empowers students to realise their potential.
I trust that all contributors recognise the significant influence their donations have on students such as myself, as well as the positive effect these contributions have on both our academic pursuits and our daily experiences.” BSc (Hons) Psychology, Counselling and Mental Health student, 2024/25 bursary recipient
In the academic year 2023/24, we awarded 34 local bursaries.
"I am truly honoured and humbled to be a recipient of this bursary.
Your kindness and generosity have not only lightened my financial load but have also motivated me to work harder and strive for excellence in my studies.
Your belief in my potential has given me a renewed sense of purpose and determination." BA (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice student, 2023/24 bursary recipient
"This bursary will help ease the financial burden on me and motivate me to excel in my studies and make the most of this incredible opportunity.
Your generosity will not only help make my dreams more achievable but also reinforce my belief in the importance of helping others in their educational endeavours." BSc (Hons) Accountancy and Finance student, 2023/24 bursary recipient
"Please know that I am committed to utilising this bursary wisely and responsibly.
Your investment in my future is not taken lightly and I am determined to make the most of this opportunity.
Your kindness and generosity have not only lightened my financial load but have also ignited a renewed sense of determination and purpose within me." BA (Hons) Digital Music student, 2023/24 bursary recipient
In the academic year 2022/23, we awarded 43 local bursaries.
“I am so grateful that this has been awarded to me, allowing me to progress with my university course, meaning I can bring a better life to me and my two girls.
It will allow me to purchase new sketch books and paint and drawing equipment that is well needed for me on my course.” BA (Hons) Interior Design Decoration student, 2022/23 bursary recipient
“As a recipient of a bursary I am grateful and touched by your donation.
Especially so with the current increased costs in energy, travel and food.
As you can probably guess, as a student I am hoping to greatly improve my knowledge and employability - with this bursary I hope to be able to continue on my journey to becoming a primary school teacher for children with special educational needs, here in Hampshire.
The bursary will help me continue to take part in valuable placement work at local SEN schools and will assist in the materials I need to complete my degree.
Without your donation I would not be able to enrich my knowledge with these experiences.” BSc (Hons) Psychology student, 2022/23 bursary recipient
“I am a third-year journalism student and I plan to pursue a career in freelance or independent journalism.
Receiving this financial help has provided means and motivation to complete my course at a high level during a period of financial uncertainty which is affecting everyone.
Lightening my financial burdens allows me to focus on the most important part of university: learning." BA (Hons) Journalism student, 2022/23 bursary recipient
In the academic year 2021/22, we awarded 29 local bursaries.
“Thank you so much for offering me the local bursary.
I simply cannot express in words what a difference this will make to my first-year nursing training.
It has taken away the worry of me needing to fit in as many bank shifts at my local hospital and given me more chance to focus directly on my studies to ensure I reach my full potential.
With the extra money it has also allowed me to purchase more student uniform, so I do not have to worry about getting my one set washed and dried by the next day (and without a washer dryer!).
This money has also taken the financial stress of travelling to my placements and petrol and parking money etc.
BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice student, 2021/22 bursary recipient
“I am a mature student and decided to study quite late on in the year, which meant that I was not as financially prepared as I would have liked to have been.
I receive no help from anyone and have had to always rely on myself for everything.
It is especially difficult for me currently as I have been unable to get a job not only because of the pandemic but also because I have been unable to walk properly since March this year.
To receive this extremely kind donation has honestly made such a difference.
I am enjoying my course immensely and this is really going to let me get the best out of it that I can possibly get.
This bursary has not only given me the opportunity to buy the items and books I need to get the most out of my course, but it’s also given me peace of mind, which for me, is probably the best thing you could give someone.” BA (Hons) Film and Television student, 2021/22 bursary recipient
“I would like to extend my deepest thanks for your support in the form of the Local Student Bursary.
I am a final year psychology student, and as I’m sure you can appreciate, this past year has been incredibly tough.
Keeping up with the course load is difficult enough in the current climate, however I find it especially difficult as I am a disabled single parent.
I have to contend with my illnesses, raising my children, studying, and working in order to keep up afloat, but your generosity has meant that I can focus more on my children and my studies.
Last semester, I was working three jobs to keep financially stable, but it crippled me emotionally and physically.
BSc (Hons) Psychology student, 2021/22 bursary recipient
In the academic year 2020/21, we awarded 39 local bursaries.
“I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to you for providing me with this bursary.
I am extremely honoured to be this year recipient of the Local Bursary Scheme.
As a full time, student, I am able to work just part time hours, but this bursary will allow me to dedicate more time to my studies, take additional classes to support my degree.
The current situation and Covid 19 and studying from home are associated with additional expenditure.
This financial assistance you provided will be great help to me in paying my additional educational expenses and allow me to concentrate more on my studying.
Thank you again for your contribution and giving me that great opportunity and support.” BA (Hons) Business Management student, 2020/21 bursary recipient
“Firstly, I would like to thank you so very much for your generosity - your donation really means a lot to students like myself who find the financial side of university to be both limiting and challenging.
Your donation will undoubtedly alleviate these constrictions.
It is also with a heavy heart I write this but on Christmas Eve my father passed away so at a time like this some financial stability is very stress reliving.
However, despite this I am now more determined than ever to work even harder than before to make sure that I do him proud and succeed in his honour and your donation will allow me to do just that.
It will relieve me from stress, give me stability, feed me and spend less time at work and spend more time at home which will ultimately allow me to work that little bit harder and do that little bit better so thank you!
I too one day hope that I am successful enough to be able to make a donation just as you have to help someone in a similar situation as myself because it really goes a long way and helps students in more ways that just the physicality’s that money provides.” BA (Hons) Fashion Styling and Creative Design student, 2020/21 bursary recipient
In the academic year 2019/20, the Local Student Bursary Scheme was officially born, and we awarded 17 local bursaries.
“Receiving the local student bursary changed my life.
I am so grateful to the generosity of former students and staff who donated.
It allows me to focus on my studies and follow my dream of being a mechanical engineer in the aerospace industry.
In my family, I am the first person to go to University.
Having been a student from a low-income background and after the diagnosis of my mother’s illness, I have worked incredibly hard, with very little resources, to get to my current position whilst also helping care for my mum.
Money was extremely stretched after paying the necessary bills, such as rent and food.
As a result, I also had very limited social interaction outside of the University – as my focus was on saving as much money as possible for study related material.
It felt very lonely.
This all changed when I heard I would receive the bursary.
I now worry less about my finances and can focus on my final and busiest year at Solent.
The bursary has truly raised what would have been unpassable.
I feel free and can focus on my studies without constantly worrying about my finances.
I am putting everything into my time at Solent to achieve my dream.
I am so excited for what the future holds and can’t wait to pursue my dream career as a mechanical engineer in the aerospace industry, thanks to the generosity of people like you.” BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering student, 2019/20 bursary recipient
“As a Local Student Bursary recipient, I am so grateful to everyone who donated.
As a full-time carer for my mother, the bursary took a huge weight off my shoulders.
The bursary is helping to cover the cost of travel to campus and providing better equipment to further my studies in software development.
It has truly allowed me to progress further in my education.
Being a full-time carer and a full-time student is difficult at times.
The bursary has allowed me to focus on my studies without having to worry about how I’ll be able to continue my studies.
Thank you to everyone who has donated.
You have lessened the stress and allowed me to focus on my studies.” BA (Hons) Computer Games Design student, 2019/20 bursary recipient
In 2018, thanks to the donations from our alumni, staff and friends, we were able to award three bursaries to local students from disadvantaged backgrounds for the first time.
"When I was 18, I never had the opportunity to get a good education.
My goal is to one day become a qualified product designer.
To me the industry is full of exciting, challenging careers that involve using excellent skills.
I want to enhance my creative skills and knowledge that will enable me to join and contribute to this dynamic and constantly evolving world.
Humans have always sought to improve the way they live, and I want to be a part of that.
Only a good education will give me the chance to live my dream.
I’m so pleased Solent is giving me this opportunity and with extra support through a bursary.” BA (Hons) Product Design student, 2018/19 bursary recipient
“As a mature, full-time student there are lots of challenges in my life including financial worries.
Through receiving the bursary I will now be able to buy a computer, chair and table, which will support my studies." BA (Hons) Fashion and Design student, 2018/19 bursary recipient
The scheme provided financial support that enabled Luke to thrive in his studies.
Since graduating, he has had success as a photographer, with his work exhibited both here in the UK and in Berlin.
“Since graduating from my BA at Southampton Solent University, I have gone on to receive my MA in photography at the Royal College of Art.
I’m currently applying to undertake a PhD back at Southampton Solent.
Some of the work I created in my final year at Southampton Solent has also been shortlisted for two awards and exhibited three times, once in Portsmouth and twice in Berlin.
This is completely down to my bursary as it enabled me to produce work that I would’ve never created otherwise, as the materials would’ve been inaccessible for me because of their cost.
As I could continue to work with the photographic mediums I love, I had a portfolio that truly represented me as an artist, which led to me being accepted into the Royal College of Art, as they were interest in how I work with materials.
Again, being able to buy materials and a working computer, for example, meant I could put my all into my BA at Southampton Solent and gave me the opportunity to push myself and achieve a first.
Thanks to everything my bursary has allowed me to achieve, I’m hopeful of one day becoming a lecturer, which is what has always motivated me.”
Jim credits Solent’s bursary scheme for helping him to find success while at university:
“The bursary kick-started my post grad activities, which have included exhibitions and commissions.
Without the help and support I received this would have been much more difficult, and I cannot stress how beneficial and important these bursaries are.”
Dmitrij emphasises the invaluable support the bursary provided him:
“Reflecting on my journey, the bursary provided me with invaluable financial support during my studies at Southampton Solent University.
It enabled me to focus on my academic and extracurricular commitments without the burden of financial stress.
This support was pivotal in allowing me to excel and ultimately graduate with a First-Class Honours degree in Business Management.
The bursary also contributed to my ability to pursue professional opportunities, such as internships and work placements, which enriched my learning experience and helped me develop a diverse skill set in areas like project management, financial analysis, and leadership.
It gave me the confidence to embrace new challenges, and the knowledge gained from these experiences has been crucial as I transition into the next phase of my career.
I am grateful to the generous donors for their contribution, which has not only supported me financially but also inspired me to continue working hard to make a positive impact in my future endeavours.”
Donations to the fund enabled us to:
If you’d like to support Southampton Solent students and help shape lives, donate online here .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/academic-departments-and-schools/solent-business-school:
Solent Business School brings businesses to life - our students are entrepreneurial, creative, agile and digital natives.
Studying business at Solent means more than just learning the theory - you'll put your knowledge into practice through a wide range of real-world live briefs and our extensive business partnerships.
Our contemporary, authentic and relevant courses are recognised by leading business, accountancy and management professional bodies.Our business graduates are connected to the world and ready for the future.
Studying with us opens up career options in a wide and fascinating range of industries and is a gateway to working across the globe.
Housed within our Spark building in the centre of Southampton, Solent Business School delivers a flexible approach, supporting students to pursue specialist knowledge and leave us with a powerful, transferable skill set – putting you in control of your future and able to adapt to a rapidly changing world.
We encourage our student’s ambitions and relish working with those who embody the entrepreneurial spirit which is in Solent’s DNA.
Solent Business School and its students are an integral part of business innovation in Southampton, and the wider UK, via our extensive network of partnerships with the business community.
These partnerships are a critical element of studying at Solent – they bring business to life for our students and enable us to support our local communities.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/cpd-professional/revo-certhe-in-retail-and-leisure-place-management:
Created specifically for the retail and property industry, this de facto entry level qualification has been developed in conjunction with industry experts and the Revo Educational Trust.
It provides retail place managers with the practical skillset and knowledge to manage and operate the retail and leisure assets that sit at the heart of our communities.
The retail and leisure industry is going through an unprecedented structural change.
Retail is no longer retail - it’s a blurring of lines between retail, leisure, food and beverage; day time and night economy; and online, as the consumer searches for the ultimate all-round retail experience.
The traditional centre manager has turned into a commercial manager who needs to present, interpret financial data into strategy, facilitate the wider community partnerships, and much more.
This one-year, part-time REVO CertHE enables you to gain a Level 4 qualification which is designed to enable you to develop deeper knowledge around the relevant core areas while being flexible in its design to fit around your work life.
This is delivered through a blended learning approach of directed learning, which you can undertake at your own pace, alongside collaborative group learning opportunities.
There is a range of formative assessments which focuses you on key learning areas for your industries, as well as giving you the chance to reflect and undertake personal professional development too.
This programme puts knowledge and confidence building at the rear of your learning experience.
Personal and academic development is very important, as well as the acquisition of skills, and you will be supported in developing your confidence and start on the road of becoming an independent learner.
We encourage teamwork as a skill, which is highly valued by employers.
Being able also to manage one’s own resources in individual work is also essential.
Personal development is an important part of the curriculum the course aims to produce graduates who are confident, competent and capable independent retail place managers.
You will be given regular feedback to help support you, both academically and professionally, enabling you to gain confidence.
This course starts in June.
Developed with:
with state-of-the-art facilities to enhance learning and elevate your student experience.
Students will be taught by a range of academics with experience in property, retail, leisure, law and management.
Colleagues from Revo will take part in the delivery.
A graduate from this course will be able to play a role in an industry that is constantly being challenged to get the best out of our assets in driving performance and value.
Students will learn the additional competencies required of a traditional centre manager to transform them into a commercial manager able to present, interpret financial data into strategy, and facilitate wider community partnerships.
The fees for 2024/25 entry are:
UK, EU and Channel Island fees: £9,250 (VAT free).
Various payment options are available.
International part-time fees: Students from outside the EU are usually unable to obtain a visa for part-time study.
Please visit our visas and immigration page for more information.
Applications are welcomed from students who do not have the academic qualifications listed below but may be admitted on the basis of relevant experience rather than standard qualifications.
Succeed, excel and prosper in the global marketplace with modern management skills.
This accredited CMI degree is delivered by our award-winning Solent Business school.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/solent-careers/i-want-to-raise-my-profile-on-campus:
There are many ways you can build connections with our students and academics.
Promote your opportunities and raise your profile on campus by booking a stand in our foyer.
This is a great way to distribute your promotional material, engage with students and enhance your brand.
Many students prefer this one-to-one style of interaction.
Delivering an employer presentation is an opportunity for you to meet with students and graduates in an informal environment, informing them of opportunities you have to offer and promoting your organisation.
You can run your own presentation, or you can come along and talk to our students in their lectures.
Previous presentations have included:
If you're interested in participating in workshops, exhibitions, presentations or networking events, please email employers@solent.ac.uk
We run an annual careers fair - an amazing chance to chat to our students and graduates on a one-to-one basis, as well as an opportunity to network with other businesses.
Each year our fair is bigger and better than ever.
To find out more about the next event and how you can get involved, please email employers@solent.ac.uk .
We very much enjoyed the careers fair - it was a great day and lovely to meet such enthusiastic students!
The whole Morgan Sindall team were blown away by the level of attendance.
I have done quite a few of these over the years and this was right up there.
Great to speak to so many students about their future careers!

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-areas/environment-and-engineering/warsash-maritime-autonomous-surface-ships-mass-research-centre:
The Warsash Maritime Autonomous Surface Ships (MASS) Research Centre (WMRC) is pioneering research into maritime autonomy, from Smart Ships and Smart Ports, to the human elements of working in tandem with smart systems, and maritime teaching and consultancy.
Maritime autonomy is a key part of the future of shipping and includes both remotely operated and fully autonomous shipping.
The last decade has seen rapid technological development across the globe towards making MASS a reality through the development of Smart Ships and MASS (with a small crew or un-crewed), often in combination with zero-emission propulsion systems.
Advancements in technology will make the human-machine interface even more critical for the safe and efficient operation of MASS.
Although significant advances have taken place to develop MASS technologies, very little research has been carried out towards analysing the human element, the human-machine interface and seafarer training needs for working with Smart Ships, Smart Ports and MASS.
The Centre conducts its research activities around four core themes: Smart Ships, MASS, Smart Ports, and teaching and consultancy.
These research activities include research, innovation, knowledge exchange, public engagement, teaching and consultancy activities.
The WMRC’s work benefits from Warsash Maritime School’s world-class facilities, including the Maritime Simulation Centre - the largest in the UK (featuring Wärtsilä technology), and the Manned Model Ship Handling Centre at Timsbury Lake - the only such facility in the UK, and one of only a few major centres in the world.
As part of Solent's £43 million investment in maritime training facilities, the Maritime Simulation Centre delivers the best in maritime training.
The Centre offer specialist training for ship's officers, harbourmasters, pilots, port superintendents and a range of other maritime professionals.
There are 11 ship models in the fleet, some of which can be reconfigured to represent several ship types.
For more information about the WMRC, please contact Captain Zakirul Bhuiyan, Centre Director.
Find out more about the training offered by Warsash Maritime School.
Find out more about Solent's Centre for Marine Sustainability

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/research/research-areas/environment-and-engineering/centre-for-marine-sustainability:
The Centre for Marine Sustainability is a leader in the creation, sharing, and application of insight, innovation, and knowledge for safe, sustainable seas.
We take a systems approach to finding solutions to the global challenges facing our oceans.
Our research is discovering clean alternatives to fossil fuels used in ships, investigating the impacts of marine pollution, and studying the safety of those working at sea.
The combination of Solent’s world leading expertise and capabilities in sustainability, engineering, maritime, and human factors provide a unique platform for collaboration to deliver global benefit to society and the environment.
We offer research degrees with the Centre, where candidates will be working alongside our field-leading researchers.
We look for outstanding applicants with excellent academic records who show potential for research at the highest level.
Please check back regularly for available opportunities.
Implementation of Ship Hybridisation Solent University is part of a research and innovation collaboration that has been awarded almost €16 million to look at the options for green technology in the maritime industry.
Seafarers' Personal Protective Equipment Project The Seafarers’ Personal Protective Equipment project is run by Solent University in collaboration with CHIRP Maritime.
The forgotten keyworkers: challenges faced by British seafarers as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic This project aims to explore the challenges faced by British seafarers as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
PECS developed, tested, and implemented a range of tools and technologies to reduce the carbon footprint and improve the energy efficiency of small- and medium-sized (SME) ports and marinas.
Lead by the Port of Oostende, knowledge institutions, port authorities, industry, and public authorities worked together to test and implement different technologies and methods in the field of renewable energy production, energy recuperation and energy storage on land and in the water.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/engage-with-us/community/law-clinic:
The Southampton Solent Law Clinic is a free legal service designed to support our local community.
In partnership with award-winning law firm, Dutton Gregory Solicitors, we opened our doors on 11 February 2025, at our city-centre campus on East Park Terrace.
Our mission is to:
By combining the expertise of Southampton Solent University and Dutton Gregory Solicitors, we are proud to offer bespoke legal advice to anyone who requires it.
The clinic is supported by several Solent LLB (Hons) Law students, who have demonstrated exceptional academic performance and a strong commitment to community service.
These dedicated students volunteer their time under the expert guidance of Jonathan Whettingsteel, Partner and Head of Family Law at Dutton Gregory, along with other specialist legal practitioners from Dutton Gregory.
Focus areas The Clinic will focus on family, and landlord and tenant law.
Schedule The Clinic takes place every Tuesday and Thursday, from 3pm to 7pm.
Appointments Please book your appointment in advance using the booking form .
This clinic will provide much-needed support to those who might not be able to afford the cost of solicitors.
To book your session at the Solent Law Clinic, please fill in the form and we'll be in touch.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/saints-partnership-boosting-opportunities-for-solent:
22 May 2025
Southampton Solent University is celebrating the ongoing success of its partnership with Southampton Football Club.
An agreement stretching back a decade, the collaboration continues to provide valuable real-world experiences and professional development opportunities for students across a wide range of disciplines.
In recent years, the relationship between the two institutions has grown significantly, with Sports & Exercise Therapy students at the forefront of hands-on learning within the elite sports environment.
Student Jack Craze is currently completing his placement year with the Southampton FC Women’s team, gaining vital experience in a high-performance setting.
In addition, three fellow students have been working closely with the men’s first team, supporting recovery work and refining their skills in a professional sports context.
Final-year placements have also been secured across both the boys’ and girls’ academy systems, ensuring a pipeline of career-ready graduates.
Luke Thomas, the club’s First Team Physiotherapist, delivered a guest lecture on PARS fractures in professional sport as part of the second-year spinal module, and led a practical workshop on lower limb rehabilitation.
Additionally, Jack Curson, First Team Sports Therapist, presented to first-year students on working within professional sports therapy.
TV Production students had the opportunity to shadow operations in the public address room at St Mary’s Stadium, offering a behind-the-scenes look at live sports broadcasting.
Sports Journalism students benefited from a guided tour of St Mary’s and direct interaction with the club’s media team, including insights from a former Solent student now working within the department.
The use of Solent’s Test Park facilities by the Senior Saints initiative since March has further solidified the partnership's local impact.
Through this collaboration, opportunities have also been extended to local schools and colleges, offering stadium tours and inspiring the next generation of students.
Solent’s Communities Development team have also worked with the football club to provide opportunities for staff and students to watch Saints’ women’s team play.
Regular competitions and other initiatives have helped to encourage those involved with the university to back their local team, with Solent also acting as shirt sponsor for the women’s team in 2025.
Southampton Solent’s Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research, Academic Strategy and Planning, Cathy Barnes, said:
“Our partnership with Southampton FC is a cornerstone of our commitment to real-world learning and community engagement.
It continues to open doors for our students, providing them with unmatched access to elite environments and professional networks that will shape their futures.”
Greg Baker, Chief Revenue Officer, Southampton FC said:
“Our Partnership with Southampton Solent University is our longest standing partnership, spanning more than ten years and running across numerous aspects of the club, from the Foundation to Matchday Media.
The University have provided us with invaluable resources with students volunteering in a number of community projects, whilst also working on key research opportunities across the business.
“The partnership is built on a true shared values and has evolved over the years to become a key pillar of support within our women’s team as we both look to increase the involvement of females within football and sport as a whole.”
As the collaboration deepens, both institutions look forward to continuing their shared mission of empowering students through innovative, hands-on experiences that bridge education and industry.
To find out more about the partnership visit our website, and if you’d like to get in touch to discuss how you could work with Solent please visit our Business Solutions page .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/new-partnership-with-utilita-bowl-and-hampshire-cricket:
17 December 2024 • by Solent press team
Staff, students and the wider community are set to benefit from a new collaborative partnership between Southampton Solent University and Utilita Bowl.
United by their shared values, and a pursuit of sporting excellence, Solent University and Utilita Bowl have worked collaboratively for a number of years, brought together by a common goal of supporting communities’ access to cricket, as well as a passion for building healthier, active and culturally cohesive communities.
“This formal partnership agreement is borne out of a mutual desire for both organisations to continue to deliver effective activity and evaluate the impact of their work together, enabling both partners to pool resources and maximise opportunities for all,” says Dr Dominic Cunliffe, Southampton Solent University’s Head of Department, Sport and Health.
Tom James, Head of Sales & Commercial Partnerships at Utilta Bowl adds, “This partnership is built on many years of positive collaborative working and to now align our commitment to local communities and utilise the strengths of both our organisations is extremely exciting.”
As part of the new collaboration, Solent graduate, Lewis Parker has been given the opportunity to carry out a year-long Master’s by Research (MRes), in collaboration with Hampshire Cricket.
Working alongside their coaching team, Lewis will be helping to develop the players by working with them, analysing data, and undertaking a research project that will help develop the club’s coaching and training methods.
Lewis, who has just finished his undergraduate degree, including a year’s placement with Southampton Football Club, says, “I’m really looking forward to working with Hampshire Cricket.
Having experiences in another sport, and the opportunity to gain a MRes, will give me the best chance of carving out a top career in elite sport.”
Both organisations will benefit from this exciting new partnership in a number of ways, including:
The University recently welcomed Hampshire Cricket onto campus for their post season testing assessment.
Under the supervision of the University’s expert staff, the Men’s and Vipers teams were put through their paces by students from the Sport and Exercise Science and Sport and Exercise Therapy courses.
Dr Lee Bridgeman, Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science says, “To be given the opportunity to use the skills and knowledge that they have learnt in the classroom on elite athletes, as well as being able to practice the soft skills they will need to be a successful sport scientist in a professional club setting is invaluable to our students.”
If you would like to find out more about how we can help, advise and collaborate with businesses and organisations visit our website at https://www.solent.ac.uk/work-with-us/business-services/business-solutions.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/university-helps-power-maiden-voyage-of-wind-assisted-tanker-with-world-first-training:
15 April 2025
Southampton Solent University has cemented its position at the forefront of maritime innovation, training and sustainability with the successful maiden voyage of Buran— the first of 34 planned wind-assisted vessels for Union Maritime, a leading UK shipowner..
Following an exciting collaboration between UML, the University’s Warsash Maritime School (WMS) and Wärtsilä, this important milestone marks the delivery of the world’s first simulator-based training course for seafarers operating vessels with Flettner rotors—a key green technology for cutting emissions in global shipping.
Buran is equipped with two Flettner rotors, designed and built by Norsepower, known as Rotor Sails TM .
To ensure that the wind assisted propulsion system is used as effectively and as efficiently as possible, UML collaborated with the University and Wartsila, to develop a digital twin of the vessel, which included the Flettner rotors and their control system.
The University undertook a set of digital sea trials in their state-of-the-art maritime simulation centre to test the model against theoretical performance predictions to ensure that the digital twin was accurate.
Now operational in the University’s maritime simulation centre, the digital twin enables ships’ crews to build an understanding of how the system works in operation and how to get the best efficiency from the system in a range of conditions.
The simulation sessions include close quarters manoeuvring, operating in heavy weather and understanding the effect of different environmental conditions on the operation of the rotors.
Jonathan Ridley, Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor at Solent University, led the digital twin testing at the University.
He says, “The decarbonisation of shipping is a huge challenge that we can only address step-by-step.
“After many hours of testing the digital twin and developing a training course for seafarers it is very exciting to see the real ship set sail on her maiden voyage.
We look forward to working further with Union Maritime Ltd to help equip their officers with the knowledge and skills needed to use these systems efficiently at sea.”
Laurent Cadji, Managing Director at Union Maritime, says:  “The launch of Buran is a milestone for Union Maritime and for sustainable shipping.
This vessel is the first of many as Union Maritime builds a stronger, more sustainable fleet, and thanks to our innovative collaboration with Solent University and Wärtsilä, we’re ensuring officers are trained to maximise this technology from day one.”

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/parallel-music-conference-welcomes-hundreds-to-solent:
10 March 2025
Returning to the city after a triumphant first year, Parallel Music Conference - an event pioneered by BA (Hons) Music Business alumni at Southampton Solent University - has welcomed more than 300 guests to campus across two days.
Launched in 2024 by Jamie Ford and Matt Bisgrove, who both studied Music Business at Solent, Parallel Music Conference has been designed to bring industry professionals to Southampton in a bid to not only place the city on the music map, but champion creative careers outside of the capital.
Taking place across Thursday 6 and Friday 7 March, this year’s conference brought leading music professionals to Southampton, including Grammy Award-winning producer, Robbie Nelson, Ruth Barlow of Beggars Group and Radio X DJ, John Kennedy.
The panels also featured alumni of Solent’s Department of Art and Music who are now thriving in their own careers, including Jo Howarth, who recently donated a platinum disc to Solent for her role in Jazzy’s hit single, Giving Me, reaching 150 million global streams.
Other Solent music graduates featured at the conference were Elodie Junkere, who is now working at Warner Music Group; James Moodie who is thriving at Sony Music’s The Orchard; Oliver Gamston, Head of Sync at music publisher, OTM; and Alice Frith, who programmes live music at Southampton’s Heartbreakers and Papillon venues.
With their success in 2024, Jamie and Matt expanded this year’s conference to panel discussions and networking events across two days; tripling the number of speakers and companies involved.
This year’s conference also marks the first time that Solent University and the University of Southampton have collaborated on a music event like this, united in their passion for the industry.
James Hannam, Course Leader Music Business and Event Management , says:
"We were delighted to host the second Parallel Music Conference, organised by two of our Music Business graduates.
The line-up of guest speakers was brilliant once again, with some fascinating industry insights and expertise shared with our students.
We were also very proud that two of our current music students, Harvey Cecil and Vanessa Gbingie, did an excellent job of chairing two panel discussions with music industry experts.
“The response from the local industry and colleges this year was fantastic, and we're already looking forward to the next conference in March 2026!"
This event not only showcases what is possible for Solent alumni but gives music and media students the opportunity to gain experience, get connected with industry, and gain insight into carving out a career in music.
Across the two days, students got involved by capturing videography and photography, chairing events, lending their marketing and social media skills, and helping ensure the overall smooth running of the conference.
Eden Gains, a Music Business undergraduate who took part in the conference, says, "This week has been so beneficial for me.
I have learned so much working at Parallel and attending each of the panels.
“I’ve had the chance to meet with industry professionals and potential mentors, while creating short form content for social media.
Having the chance to create content for a music industry conference has been such a golden opportunity to extend my knowledge and experience.”
During the opening ceremony of Parallel, Jamie Ford shone a light on why a conference of this kind is so important for the city:
“After leaving uni, I thought I would have to live in London to work in music, but that’s not always the case.
We’re trying to bring the music industry to Southampton and give everyone a chance to network, while putting a spotlight on all the great things that happen here.”
Find out more about music and event management courses at Solent here .
Image credit: Sam Williams

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/bizz-buzz-beyond-the-suit-podcast-launches-1:
28 January 2025 • by Solent press team
A new podcast that draws on Business South’s little black book of top business leaders and the technical know-how of talented staff and students at Southampton Solent University will launch at the end of January.
The partnership approach to producing the podcast combines the best of both worlds when it comes to bringing together business and academia explains Business South CEO Leigh-Sara Timberlake, who is thrilled to see the project come to fruition.
“The idea of working with the students came about as the result of a conversation with Southampton Solent University’s Vice-Chancellor James Knowles at one of our Directors Dinners.
“We have the contacts and know the business leaders who have interesting stories to tell, while the students have the technical expertise to record those conversations so we can share them with a wider audience,” said Leigh-Sara.
The first episode of Bizz Buzz – Beyond the Suit will feature Mark Perry, CEO of VIVID talking about the importance of home and the key role his organisation is taking to address the housing need in the Central South.
The podcast will focus on gaining an insight into the men and women running major businesses and organisations across the Central South.
It will be a chance to find out about the person beyond the suit and hear about everything from their career route to what really makes them tick.
Working in partnership with Business South on the podcast is a great way to strengthen business relationships in the region, explains Professor James Knowles, Vice-Chancellor of Southampton Solent University.
“This exciting new venture with Business South is an excellent example of the innovative ways in which we are working with our local partners.
As a civic university, we are committed to collaborating with a wide range of partners across the region.
Creating opportunities for our students and delivering benefits for business and society.
I look forward to seeing how this latest venture will be received by both our business and wider communities,” says Professor Knowles.
Senior Lecturer, Kate O’Driscoll, explains how Bizz Buzz offers the perfect way for students on BA (Hons) TV Production and BA (Hons) Post Production for TV and Film to gain experience on a live project and to hone their skills.
"Working on live briefs with external clients are an invaluable component of what we offer at Solent.
They give our students the opportunity to develop their professional practice and gain a real understanding of client and industry expectations, ” says Kate.
The podcast is available on all your favourite sites.
You can listen to the first episode below.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff:
Board of Governors
Department of Business and Law

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-policies-and-legal-information:
This section covers our finances, policies, contracts and other legal details, as well as our public information sets, and information for our external examiners.
Data Protection and Freedom of Information Read more about the University's data protection policy and freedom of information procedures.
Public information Solent University publishes a number of public information documents on our website, from policies, to information for prospective students, such as prospectuses.
Environmental and sustainability Our environmental policy outlines the University's environmental commitments related to our estates, staff, students and suppliers.
We are also committed to maintaining and improving the local environment that may affect our students, staff and the local community.
Equality and diversity Solent University is committed to the promotion of fair treatment and equality of opportunity for all students and staff.
Fairtrade We are committed to embedding ethical and sustainable practices throughout the institution, including in campus operations and procurement activities.
Fairtrade-certified and fairly-traded products are sold in our campus shops and catering outlets.
Quality assurance Read more about the University's policies and processes related to quality assurance.
University access agreements As a UK higher education provider, Southampton Solent is required to set out in writing how we intend to widen participation, support access to higher education and help students to achieve their goals.
Anti-bribery The University's financial regulations have been fully updated in line with the Bribery Act (2010) and an anti-bribery policy along with a staff guidance document has been put together.
Gift acceptance and ethical fundraising Our gift acceptance and ethical fundraising policy defines our standard procedures for the solicitation and acceptance of philanthropic donations to support the University, providing assurance that all donors are treated equitably.
Financial information Here you can see details of the University's income and expenditure, and read our latest financial statements.
Details of charity exemption Read more about the University's information relating to our charitable status.
Details of our insurer The name of our insurers and our policy number.
Terms and conditions of purchase Read the full details of the University's terms and conditions of purchase.
Modern Slavery Statement This statement explains the steps the University takes to support the Modern Slavery Act (2015) and ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in our organisation or our supply chains.
Incident management plan Our incident management plan provides a framework for managing the University's response to an event that poses a significant threat to people, property, reputation or service delivery.
Incident management plan
Major incident plan flowchart
Key Information Sets (KIS) Find out how you can view the KIS course data for Solent University.
Wider information set The University publishes a wide range of publicly available information in line with the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE)'s specifications.
Publication scheme Here we give an overview of the University's structure, governance, policies, expenditure, and other areas, in line with the Freedom of Information Act (2000).
Guidance for external examiners Here we give guidance for existing and potential external examiners working with the University.
Solent University has been registered by the Office for Students (OfS) in the register of English higher education providers.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/strategy-2035/a-message-from-our-vice-chancellor:
We are proud to share our strategy for the next decade, in which we outline our mission and vision and present three new strategic directions for the University.
It is an honour to be leading Southampton Solent University as we celebrate our 20th anniversary as a university.
While our roots in the city span over a century, we are a relatively young institution, and the coming decade offers an opportunity to redefine and shape our organisational identity.
We have achieved much since the development of our last Strategy in 2020, and we have done so in a uniquely turbulent period for the higher education sector, our society, and the world.
The changes we have made have provided us with strong foundations to build on with confidence, ensuring our continued success in the future.
This strategy outlines where we aspire to be by 2035.
Just as our TEF gold rating shows how we drive excellent opportunities and outcomes, so our new vision envisages how we will create radical openness to excellence.
Southampton Solent will be the leading practice-led university in the country.
To achieve this, we must innovate and evolve.
To guide our progress, we present in this strategy three new innovative directions developed in partnership with our students, staff, alumni, and external stakeholders.
These directions to success build on the excellent work we are already doing – not least the delivery of high-quality learning and teaching, as well as excellent student outcomes as recognised by our triple gold rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (2023).
The thread that ties these new directions together is access to excellence.
We will open Southampton Solent to; learners at different stages of their lives; our communities; our partners; and, to the world.
Our new campus vision proposes to open the University to the widest range of communities and stakeholders, enacting these principles.
In developing our strategy, we analysed the external contexts that we will face over the next decade, including shifting demographics and the challenge of financial sustainability, climate change, rapid technological and digital transformation, and pervasive global instability.
These challenges are complex, interrelated, and unpredictable and they will shape our future and that of our graduating students.
But we will also look to our institutional heritage of creativity and technology, and our institutional culture of innovation and inclusion to tackle these issues.
As we deliver this strategy, we must be prepared to transform the university, its education, and its culture, to meet these challenges, while also seizing all opportunities to ensure that our students, our alumni, our partners, and our city-region not only adapt to these futures, but also thrive in them.
Professor James Knowles, FRSA Vice-Chancellor

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/coat-of-arms:
In 2020 Solent University was granted an official coat of arms in recognition of our status and long history of educational excellence since 1856.
Granted by letters patent from the Garter Principal King of Arms, our coat of arms combines the University's long history and tradition with contemporary symbols to reflect its modern standing.
Our coat of arms is used for our main ceremonial events, such as graduation, official University communications, as a focal point for our alumni and a reminder to take pride over our traditions and heritage.
It contains four important elements:
The Shield: The simple geometric red and white design signifies a contemporary chart of the Solent and the Isle of Wight reflecting the University’s longstanding connection to the South of England.
The Crest: This depicts two Northern Gannets ‘fencing’.
These seabirds symbolise a strong maritime link to the sea and the Solent.
Supporters: These take the form of an adaption of the Warsash Dragon, the original heraldic badge for our Warsash Maritime School which has been a first-class Marine School for the past 70 years.
Motto: “Ready for the future.” The motto is placed below the coat of arms and celebrates Solent University as a modern institution which is ready to adapt to new times ahead, while the coat of arms reflects its longstanding educational history.
Our heraldic badge for the Warsash Maritime School includes and adaptation of the 'Warsash Dragon', a standard depicting the Solent and Isle of Wight in a simple geometric design to highlight the University's location and an anchor to recognise our first-class maritime education for the past 70 years.
A range of merchandise is now available featuring the new coat of arms and the heraldic badge.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/new-staff:
Ensuring an excellent people experience where our staff and students live our Solent values is at the heart of all we do.
I hope you have been able to experience this first hand during your recruitment to your new role.
We are committed to supporting everyone to aspire to, and deliver, excellence, as well as developing to their full potential.
We reward excellence and recognise the value diversity and equality bring to our community.
Throughout your induction and beyond, you will find out more about the ways we will support you to achieve this - through engaging with your career pathway and performance and development reviews, in the importance we place on your health and wellbeing, and how we celebrate the diverse contribution you can make to our University through our staff awards.
We support our managers to be Solent Leaders as 'We Care', focusing on the power of 'We', Communication, Authenticity, Recognition and Role-modelling and Empowerment.
If you have any questions, ideas or feedback, there are a number of ways you can communicate with us.
You can speak to your manager or Solent Buddy, contact your head of department or director of service, or meet with your business partner from People and Development.
We also have a people forum called Solent Voice where we share ideas and much more.
If you have a question for the Vice-Chancellor you can email AskTheVC@solent.ac.uk , or ask at the VC welcome breakfast you will be invited to.
We value your feedback on your people experience.
Information included on this page:
You'll be taken on a campus tour on your first day but to get your bearings beforehand, take a look at our map.
The University is made up of six academic departments, Warsash Maritime School, and a number of professional services departments.
We aim to provide an excellent university education and outstanding experience for our students.
To help you get started, we've included some of the key things you need to do or need to know to help your first few weeks working at Solent go smoothly.
The MyView app is where you can view and update your personal details, as well as download your payslips, submit expense claims and request holiday or other leave.
On your first day, please make sure you:
You can access MyView from the staff portal home page by clicking on the MyView tile.
Our essentials training programme provides important training for all staff new to Solent to undertake.
You'll find a range of e-learning modules for you to work through during your first month.
Your email account will be set up for you ready for when you start.
Instructions for how to update your Solent-branded email signature, along with templates, can be found here .
You'll need your Solent user name and password to access this information.
You'll need a staff campus card to gain access to various areas of the University.
Your campus card will also allow you to print on the network printers.
Visit the Estates and Facilities helpdesk in the post room any time between 11am and 4pm to get your card.
You'll need to take a form of ID with you.
Your photo will be taken when you collect your card or, if you prefer, you can send a head and shoulders style photo to estates.admin@solent.ac.uk .
Applying for campus cards remotely
To request a campus card if working remotely, please log into our Planon system https://planon.solent.ac.uk.
You will need to request a campus card using the 'Enquiries' option from the My Planon Gadgets.
Select 'Campus card request for staff'.
You will be required to attach a head and shoulders photo to your request.
Estates and Facilities will prepare the campus card and contact you to let you know when your card is ready for you to collect.
For IT support, the best way to contact the ICT service desk for requests and to report non-urgent faults is to log a ticket through Beacon (you'll need to log in with your Solent username and password).
Here, you can find self-help guides; report faults; view, update and log your own tickets; and see current or future planned maintenance.
You can also contact the ICT service desk by calling extension 2345 (or 023 8201 2345 from outside the office).
The Portal is your main source of information for University news, policies, IT support, campus information, library information, and much more!
Take a look
Staff car parking
If you're planning to drive into work, there are a limited amount of parking spaces available on the main East Park Terrace campus, and at some of our student residences.
To park in University spaces, you'll need to apply for a permit.
Find out more about staff car parking
Until a University car parking space becomes available, there are a number of car parks in the city centre - most are within a 5-10 minute walk from the main campus.
View Parking on Google maps
Cycle2Work scheme
If you want to cycle to work, we offer a Cycle2Work scheme in partnership with Halfords.
The scheme allows staff to buy a bike and accessories up to the value of £2,500 through a salary sacrifice.
There are several free-to-use bike spaces on campus.
Travel loans
If you'd rather use public transport for your journey to work, interest-free loans are available to buy season tickets for buses, trains and the Isle of Wight ferry.
Find out more about Cycle2Work and travel loans
The first 12 months of your employment will form your probationary period.
Your manager will arrange 3, 6, 9 and 12-month probationary reviews with you to assess your progress while you settle in at Solent.
View the probationary review document
What better way to get to know your new colleagues than to get involved with Staff Scene events!
Staff Scene organises social events, from choir, days out and activities, to quizzes, Christmas parties and sporting events that any member of staff can take part in.
Your health and safety at work is important to us and there is a wealth of information available to you.
Health and safety induction
Environmental sustainability is a foundation of the University's strategy.
Information about our environmental initiatives, policies and plans, and how we're embedding sustainable practices across the institution can be found here.
Environmental information for new starters
You'll be paid on the last working day of the month.
Payslips can be viewed online in your MyView app.
Find out more about payroll deadlines and pay days
Associate lecturers and coaches on variable hours contracts submit pay claims each month through the VTS schedules and pay claims app.
Further information about viewing pay details in MyView, VTS schedules and the pay claim app can be found on the pay and benefits and payroll pages of the staff portal.
At Solent, we operate a single pay scale with the grade for a job determined through the University's job evaluation scheme .
Employees receive one spinal point increment on 1 April (support staff) and 1 September (academic staff) each year, until the top of the relevant grade is reached.
Employees who join after 31 December (support staff) and after 1 May (academic staff) will receive their first increment on 1 April or 1 September in the following year.
Management salaries are reviewed annually on 1 August.
Apprentice salaries are reviewed annually on 1 October.
In addition, a cost of living rise is negotiated with UCU and UNISON as part of national pay negotiations, and is normally applied from 1 August each year.
We offer our employees a fantastic range of benefits, including an excellent holiday allowance, pension plans, family benefits and health and wellbeing initiatives.
Find out more about employee benefits
Flexible working and family leave
We also offer working arrangements such as full-time, part-time and job share.
Flexible working arrangements are also recognised.
If you need to take time off for family leave, such as maternity/paternity and urgent or compassionate family leave, our policies provide guidance on how to request this.
Staff memberships at the Solent Sports Complex
The Sports Complex boasts a 90-station gym featuring over 40 pieces of cardio equipment.
Solent staff can enjoy a competitively-priced monthly membership fee, with no joining fee.
At Solent, we encourage our employees to have their say and to recognise colleagues for their commitment to the University's values.
Staff survey
The staff survey is your opportunity to tell us about your Solent experience.
We want to hear what you like about working at Solent, and also any areas you feel could be improved.
Solent Voice
Established following feedback from the staff survey, Solent Voice offers managers and departmental representatives to come together to share ideas, collaborate and gain feedback from colleagues from all areas of the University.
Each department, school, and professional service has a representative .
Staff Awards
The annual Staff Awards recognise the diverse contribution staff make across the University, to reward achievement and to celebrate the successes of our vibrant and innovative community.
Career pathways
We operate a career pathways framework across all roles.
This is designed to deliver an excellent people experience by providing opportunities to recognise and develop the talents, skills and experience of our people, enabling them to fulfil their potential and contribute to delivering our strategy: Building an Excellent University.
For more information on Solent's agile academic or professional services career pathways, visit career pathways on the staff portal .
If you have any general questions regarding pay or benefits at Solent, contact your business partner or people adviser .
For specific pay and pension queries, contact a member of the payroll team.
At Solent, your people experience is our top priority.
To ensure this, you'll be allocated a nominated Buddy on your first day to help with your introduction to Solent.
Your Buddy may be a colleague or a direct manager - we'll let you know who this is on your first day.
Your Buddy will be able to assist you with:
Solent University employs approximately 1,100 members of staff across our departments and professional services.
People and Development's mission is to facilitate a culture that supports people to aspire to, and deliver, excellence.
We recognise that the way people are recruited, developed, organised and managed - and, importantly, their contributions recognised and rewarded - has a direct and strong influence on organisational performance.
Our core purpose is the provision of a best-in-class service to enable these key features to positively influence the University's performance.
We live by Solent's values: engagement, inclusivity, integrity, ownership, respect and teamwork.
People and Development, A101, East Park Terrace Tel: 023 8201 3961 ext.
3961
Vice-Chancellor

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff/governor/james-knowles:
Vice-Chancellor's Group
Professor Knowles joined Solent as Vice-Chancellor from his role as Senior Vice-Principal for Education at Royal Holloway, University of London, where he has been responsible for delivering clear, strategic leadership for all aspects of teaching and learning, student experience and student outcomes.
Educated at a comprehensive school, and the universities of London and Oxford, Professor Knowles has previously been Executive Dean and Vice-Principal of the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at Royal Holloway, University of London, Professor of Renaissance Literature and Culture and Vice-Dean (Research) at Brunel University, London, and Professor of Medieval and Renaissance Literature and Head of the School of English at University College, Cork.
Professor Knowles’ own research has focused on the court masque and its political, theatrical and social contexts, especially in Ben Jonson’s masques and entertainments.
His writing and research also cover topics including sexuality and gender in the early modern period and in contemporary writing; space, spatiality and cultural geography; the new histories of the book, including the queer history of the book; and manuscript studies and codicology.
He has been a Leverhulme Trust research fellow and has held grants and fellowships from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), the British Academy, the Huntington Library, California and the Ransom Library, Texas.
Professor Knowles is currently Strategic Reviewer for the AHRC and a Member of the AHRC Peer Review College.
Other external roles have included school and FE governorships, he is currently a trustee and board member of the AQA (Assessment and Qualifications Alliance) and he is also chair designate of The Gunnersbury Museum and Park Development Trust.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/our-governance-and-organisation/our-structure:
The University is organised into academic departments and a range of professional services, providing everything from academic and admin support to library services and sports provision.
Warsash Maritime School is the only maritime training centre of its kind in the world.
The School offers professional accredited deck, engineering, maritime and offshore safety training courses from entry level to senior seafarers.
Academic Registry - The work of Academic Registry encompasses the entire student life cycle from the moment of enrolment through to graduation.
Maintaining and ensuring the accuracy of student, cadet, and apprentice records and directing and overseeing of the core quality processes in support of the University's Departments and Schools are at its heart.
In addition, the department is responsible for the management and distribution of all University examinations and certification, student complaints and appeals, and the annual graduation ceremonies.
Apprenticeship team - The team links business and academia through the management of degree apprenticeship programmes.
The team assist employers with identifying skills gaps and opportunities, onboarding learners onto programmes and managing the links between course teams and employers.
Project Management Office - Responsible for helping the University deliver successful programmes of work by managing major new project requests and providing business analysis and project practices to deliver successful project outcomes.
Education Office - Responsible for developing and supporting learning technologies, and managing the library and learning services.
Estates and Facilities - Responsible for providing and maintaining the University’s estate and buildings, as well as providing a wide range of support functions that underpin and support academic activities, including accommodation and conference services.
External Relations - Responsible for marketing and digital (including University websites), public relations and communications, UK student recruitment, and admissions and enrolment, as well as data analysis and KPIs.
Finance Service - Responsible for core finance functions including procurement, liaison with funding councils and other regulatory bodies, student number planning, accounts payable, provision of management information and compliance with data / information requirements.
Library and Learning Service - Provides resources, services and expertise to support the University's students and staff in learning, research and teaching.
People and Development - Responsible for recruitment and appointments, ensuring the University fulfils its obligations as an employer, and developing and maintaining a working environment that supports the contribution of all University employees.
Information and Communication Technology - Responsible for the management and maintenance of the core IT infrastructure of the University.
International Office - Responsible for the development of international partnerships, EU and overseas student recruitment, and championing internationalisation across the University.
Research Office - Responsible for developing and supporting research, innovation and knowledge exchange across the University and with external research partners and stakeholders.
Student Sport - Responsible for delivering competitive and recreational sport, supporting elite athletes, managing coach education, running the community coaching programme, and the management and operation of facilities.
Solent Students' Union - Provides advice and support for Solent students, and offers a voice for students in helping shape the University's policies and the overall student experience.
Specialist Facilities - Responsible for managing the University's specialist facilities for staff and student use, as well as timetabling and room management.
Student Success - Responsible for providing students access to all the information and support they may need during their time at University.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/about/mission-and-strategy:
Solent University is dedicated to the pursuit of excellent university education that enables learners from all backgrounds to become enterprising citizens and responsible leaders, while also promoting economic and social prosperity for the communities we serve.
We aim to offer an outstanding student experience, combining applied skills and intellectual challenge with a diverse, inclusive and supportive learning environment - developing students' self-confidence and enhancing their careers.
The University strategy lays out our priorities for the next 10 years, sets out where we want to be by 2035, and shows how we intend to get there:
Solent University Strategy 2035
Our Teaching Excellence at Solent brochure gives you insight into the excellent work that students and staff are producing together as part of our Learning, Teaching and Student Achievement Strategy:
Teaching Excellence at Solent University

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/how-to-apply/criminal-convictions-disclosure-procedure:
While promoting equality of opportunity, Solent University has a duty of care to provide a safe environment for its staff and students.
Therefore, at the point of enrolment all new applicants are required to declare to the University any ‘unspent’ criminal convictions or where there is a pending court case.
This requirement is for all University courses with more specific requirements for professional practice which are subject to professional, statutory, and regulatory body requirements, eg, nursing or social work, where declaration must include spent and unspent convictions.
The procedure linked below applies to all new applicants, existing students at Solent University, and students enrolling via Solent University for a course delivered elsewhere under a partnership agreement.
For more information, please contact the Student Hub or email safeguarding@solent.ac.uk .
Download the criminal conviction procedure
Download the declaration of criminal convictions form

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/get-ready-for-results-day:
Results day is coming up!
You might have a mixture of feelings - from excitement to anxiety.
We’ve outlined what to expect and tips to help you through.
Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) will give out their results on Tuesday 5 August 2025 .
A-level results day is Thursday 14 August 2025 .
You're going to have to make sure that you're available on results day, just in case.
If you're on holiday, hopefully you'll be somewhere with internet access in case you need to log in to your UCAS Track account.
If you're not able to access the internet, you can nominate someone to make those changes for you.
Some of the changes are time sensitive, so if you're not easily contactable, make sure you've given them a brief about what they will need to do on your behalf.
Make sure you enter their details in the nominated access section of your application before you go away, then they will be able to talk to UCAS about your application.
If you think there's a chance you didn't do as well as you hoped, that doesn't mean you can't go to university.
Check out our Ultimate guide to Clearing , for all the Clearing information you need.
Also, have a look at other universities for some different courses and options.
You may even spot something you didn't think about applying for.
Most universities started advertising their Clearing courses at the start of July, so you should be able to find out which ones you can apply for.
Whether you’re expecting good or bad news, it’s a good idea to be prepared on results day.
Here’s what you should do to get ready:
If there’s a knot in your stomach that feels like it’s getting tighter and tighter as results day looms, don’t worry – you’re not alone, and there are things you can do to help.
Have a read through this article by the Complete University Guide for some tips on managing mental health.
Ultimately, the most important thing to remember is you've done your best and there WILL be options open to you, whatever happens.
If that doesn’t help, try writing a list of the things you can and can’t control on a bit of paper.
Once you’ve done this, tear up the things you can’t change, and use what’s left to make a plan of action.
You can’t control what your results will be, so try and be ready by looking after yourself, so you can fresh and clear on results day.
We've got more helpful tips and advice this week to help you navigate your way through Clearing!

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/its-results-day:
The day you've been waiting for approaches: BTEC, T Level and A-Level results day!
But remember: no matter what happens on results day, be proud of the work you've done to get there and get ready to start the next chapter!
So, here you are.
The big day has arrived, and you’re probably feeling a lot of emotions right now.
Whatever the result, this week marks the end (or at least the beginning of the end) of all those stressful exams, coursework, hours revising and all the worrying, so take a few minutes to breathe, make yourself a cuppa’ and a nice breakfast, log online to get your results, or head to your college and join your classmates!
Now for the important bits.
Whatever your results, you’ve got things to do.
Before we start, make sure you’ve got the following bits handy:
Okay, first up, remember that breathing thing we mentioned before?
Do a little more of that.
Don’t panic – all is not lost!
If your UCAS Track isn’t giving you the status of your application, you’ll need to ring your chosen university's admissions team.
The number should be found on their website, although if you call clearing you should also be able to get through to admissions from there.
FYI, Solent’s admissions team can be contacted on 023 8201 5066.
If you didn’t meet the entry requirements for your firm choice, but did for your insurance, you’ll automatically be placed – woohoo!
However, you’ll still need to update your Student Finance application and sort out accommodation.
If your UCAS Track status is unsuccessful in both your firm and insurance choices, you’ll automatically be placed into Clearing.
First, talk to your first choice or insurance university and see what advice they can give you.
If you then need to start looking at other universities, take a moment to think about your options - what you'd like to study and where.
Don't just take the first available course as you're making a big commitment for your future.
Hopefully, you’ll
have seen our previous two-parter on clearing – Ultimate clearing guide - part one which will help you with making
another choice, and Ultimate clearing guide - part two goes through how to handle the
call.
If you get anxious on the phone, a lot of universities now handle Clearing applications via other means.
At Solent, you can apply through Clearing via:
If your results have taken you by surprise and/or you have no idea where to apply, don’t feel like this needs to be done today.
Clearing is open until 20 September so, while it’s advisable to apply sooner rather than later, don’t go making any hasty decisions.
Many universities offer Clearing open days soon after results day, so you can always head over for a look, and chat to student ambassadors about what life there is like.
Congratulations, clever clogs!
You’ve now got a really nice choice to make: you can stick with your firm choice university, or you can apply to a different one whose entry requirements you now meet.
To do the latter, you need to register for adjustment on UCAS Track and call the universities you’re interested in to see if they have any places available.
You’ll have five days from when your offer was confirmed to make a choice, but try not to be too hasty.
Think about the things that mattered to you when choosing your current choice – does the new university and course tick those boxes?
Do your research carefully.
Congratulations!
In a few weeks you’ll be beginning the next chapter of your life, and we have no doubt you’ll love it!
Everybody coming to uni will need to make sure they have funding and accommodation in place before they can start.
If you’re going to the university you originally applied to, chances are you’ve got all of this sorted.
If not, no drama.
You can update
your Student Finance application with your new uni here , and we recommend doing this as
soon as your place has been confirmed.
As for accommodation, contact your uni’s accommodation team.
They’ll be able to advise on whether there are any spaces left in the halls of residences, or point you towards accredited and vetted landlords.
The most important thing we haven’t mentioned yet is… CELEBRATE!
You’ve worked really hard, and it’s paid off.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/the-ultimate-clearing-guide-part-one:
Clearing officially opens on Saturday 5 July 2025, so we've created the ultimate guide to help you along the way.
In this two-part guide, we’ll be covering all the things you need to know about Clearing so make sure you check back for part two .
So you’ve probably heard the word 'clearing' a few times during your time applying for university, but if you’re still not sure what it is, don't worry – here’s a quick overview.
Clearing is part of the UCAS application process and is there to help you find a place at university if you haven’t got any offers, you’ve declined all your offers, you didn’t meet the conditions of your offer, or you’ve changed your mind and want to apply for university late.
When you’re selecting your university, you still need to research your Clearing choice.
Remind yourself about why you made those original choices and see if you can still apply that criteria now.
If you didn't get the results you expected, you may need to have a rethink about what you’d like to study if your original offers have been withdrawn.
If you’ve not applied to university at all yet, check out our article Which course is right for you?
for tips on finding the right fit.
Before calling the universities you're considering, it's worth seeing if the course is available through Clearing.
You can find out on the UCAS website or on the university's course pages.
Don’t forget, you’re going to be spending the next 3-4 years there, so it’s worth checking out what the university is like.
See what facilities they have and if the location is convenient for you.
Lots of universities will offer visit days or open days so try to attend them if you can.
You can call as many universities as you want and enquire about as many courses as you like.
You can also accept as many verbal offers as you’d like.
However, you’ll only be able to apply for one.
There should be plenty of Clearing places about, so it’s worth calling around before making your final choice.
If your results were much lower than expected and you’ve not quite reached the amount of points needed for your course, you may need to consider a different course entirely.
It may be worth looking at the foundation years that a course offers.
Foundation years are essentially an extra year at university where you will learn the skills needed for a degree.
So you’re in Clearing and you’ve got an idea of which course/courses to apply for, here’s what you need to do next in three easy steps:
Check out our video for some top tips to help you through the Clearing process.
Once you’ve got your Clearing place, another thing you may have to think about is where you’re going to live and how you’re going to fund your studies.
Most universities set aside a few extra rooms for people who are applying through Clearing, so it’s worth asking what accommodation is available.
Halls of residences full?
Don’t panic.
Contact your university's accommodation team and they’ll be able to point you in the right direction.
They'll have a list of landlords who are accredited and have been vetted to make sure their houses are safe for you to live in.
If you’re applying to Solent through Clearing, we’re guaranteeing accommodation to anyone who puts us as their Clearing choice (visit our Clearing page for more info).
If you’re not applying to Solent, it's worth seeing if your university is offering anything similar.
After you’ve selected your Clearing choice and it’s been accepted, it’s time to sort out your funding.
If you’ve already applied for student finance you’ll need to contact them and change your university.
Here’s how you can do it but bear in mind you’ll need to do this ASAP.
If you’ve not applied for student finance yet, you need to do this as quickly as possible.
Check out our how to register article and then get that application filled in fast.
It’s also worth looking into if you’re entitled to any bursaries or scholarships your university offers.
If you’re considering more than one, make sure you check them all!
Here’s what Solent offers to give you an idea .
If you require additional support at university, you may also be eligible for the Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA).
It’s a non-repayable grant that provides extra funding to support you, so that’s worth checking out too .
You can ask us any questions you have about the Clearing process on any of our social channels or via WhatsApp:
Facebook: www.facebook.com/solentuniversity
Instagram: www.instagram.com/solentuniversity
WhatsApp: 07712 402 951
Find out how volunteering can positively impact both you and the cause you become a volunteer for.
Still deciding what uni or course to apply to?
Let us run you through UCAS Extra.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/the-ultimate-clearing-guide-part-two:
Welcome to part two of the ultimate Clearing guide.
If you missed part one, simply click here and you'll have all the info you need on what Clearing is, making a choice, applying for a course, accommodation and finance.
Phew.
But hopefully we’ll cover everything else you need to know this week!
Your results day is coming up.
Which might mean you’re starting to feel a little bit anxious – here are three top tips to help manage those nerves in the lead up to the big day.
Exercise can help with managing your thoughts and reduce the physical effects of stress or anxiety.
You don't have to go hard at the gym, just go for a nice long walk, pop in some headphones and practice mindfulness.
When we’re stressed or anxious, it can be easy to forget about self-care.
Take some time to do things for yourself.
Have a relaxing bath, do something creative or just get some rest.
Mindfulness can help us to relax, step back from noisy thoughts and be in the present moment.
Learn some breathing exercises, go for a walk and take note of the things you notice in your environment.
Or use mindfulness apps such as Calm or Headspace .
Mental health charity Mind has some more great tips for relaxation here .
And if you've got a spare 10 minutes, check out this video from a TED Talk .
Once you’ve researched the universities you want to study at, you’re going to need to get in contact with them.
In the older days of Clearing, this would be with a phone call, which is still a popular way.
But most universities are also happy to talk to you by WhatsApp and live chat, as well as through their social channels.
Visit the website of the universities you are interested in and find out the best way to get in touch.
Make sure you’ve done your research.
Have you had a proper look at the course and is it what you want to study?
If you have any questions about the course, make a note of them because you can ask as many questions as you like.
If you’re using your mobile to contact the university, make sure you’re fully charged and in a quiet place with a pen and paper next to you.
You may need to jot down your next steps or any offers that the universities you call are making and the quiet will help you concentrate.
You will need these things before making the call:
Whether you’re chatting on the phone or typing on a keyboard make sure you ask all the questions you want.
While it’s a busy day, the Clearing staff are on hand to make sure that you’re being given all the correct information.
Make sure you note down all the important information, names, email addresses, next steps etc.
so that when you come off the call you feel confident with what you have to do next.
Remember, if you’re made a verbal offer on the call, you don’t have to accept it; this is just confirmation that you will have a place if you select that uni on UCAS.
Remember, you’re spending the next few years of your life at the university and studying the course so feel free to shop around.
Once you’ve contacted all of your chosen universities and asked all the questions you wanted to, hopefully you’ve had a verbal offer from the one you really like the sound of.
Now it’s time to add that university as your Clearing choice.
If you're struggling with your options, check out our article about UCAS Extra.
Even though it's about UCAS Extra closing, there's some handy info on making a choice.
Now, you’re going to need to log back into your UCAS Hub and select ‘Add a Clearing Choice’.
If you're currently holding offers but want to change to a different university (and have been made a verbal offer by them), you then go to UCAS Hub, click the link to 'Decline my place' on your home page - you'll be taken to a page explaining the process and be asked to confirm you're sure you want to release, and then add you Clearing choice.
Make sure they have made you an offer though.
If you add a Clearing choice without speaking to the university first, they won't accept it.
We figured we’d give you a sneak peek into our hotline rooms at Solent so you know that you’re in good (and well fed) hands.
Before anyone gets their hands on a jazzy headset, they have to complete the Clearing training.
This training can range from a week to a morning (depending on how comfortable the operators are with the process).
Operators will be taught how to use all the software and systems, as well as learning common Clearing questions, the Clearing process, and they'll all practice different scenarios so they’re comfortable on the phone.
All the operators in the room are fully trained so whoever you talk to will be super informed and able to process your call.
There will also be a handy guide, checklist and on-floor support to help on the day.
The floor is filled with a mixture of hotline operators who are either staff or students.
There are also a couple of teams who walk the floor and help the operators out:
There's also a nice break-out room full of teas, coffees, water and snacks.
As A-level results day starts at 7am, breakfast is provided for all the operators, just to make sure they're on top form with the most important meal of the day.
So you’ve got your place and you’re going to need to get ready to enrol.
Now, this will differ for each university, so if you’re not applying to Solent you’ll have to await your instructions.
But we’re going to tell you about what happens at Solent to give you an idea.
Before you even set foot on campus, you’ll receive an email towards the end of August to get you ready to enrol on your course.
This will be a username, password and a link.
Simply follow the link and instructions and that’s it!
You’ve pre-registered.
You will also get your welcome week timetable, so you know what you’ll be doing when you arrive.
It’s also worth checking to see if there are any Unibuddy groups to join so you can find people in your halls.
When you arrive, make sure you check your welcome week timetable.
This will give you the times you need to complete your enrolment.
This process will ensure that you’re fully enrolled and will be able to get your student loan, as the admissions team will be able to inform Student Finance that you are who you say you are, and that you’re enrolled on your course.
You will also have all your inductions like your IT induction, course induction and student services induction.
This will give you all the info you need for all those extra things at uni you need to know.
While we’ve given you (hopefully) all the information you need for applying to university through Clearing, we’re going to do you one final favour, and summarise all the content into some bitesize chunks.
But if you have any more questions, you can contact our super helpful team by emailing admissions@solent.ac.uk or take a look at our Clearing page .
Clearing is part of the UCAS application process and will help you find a place at university if you’ve not had any offers, you’ve declined all your offers, you didn’t meet the conditions of your offer, or you’ve changed your mind and want to apply for university late.
Clearing runs from 5 July to 20 October 2025.
If you are applying for university after 30 June, you’ll be in Clearing, no matter who you are.
When you check your UCAS Hub account it will tell you if you’re in Clearing.
You can normally find out on the individual course pages on the university website or on the UCAS website.
You can contact as many as you like.
But you can only select one.
There should be lots of different ways to contact your selected university.
A phone call tends to be the most popular, but many universities will deal with your queries by WhatsApp, live chat or their social media channels too.
It’s kind of a good idea to stay close to home on results day, just in case.
But if you are away, make sure you have access to your results on results day.
You may need to talk to your college or sixth form to access them.
Make sure you don’t leave it until after your holiday to apply through Clearing, though, as places are limited.
Sometimes.
It’s worth calling them to see what options are available.
It could be that they have an attached foundation year for the course where you can spend an extra year at university preparing yourself for the degree.
It depends on the university and on the course itself.
It’s always worth calling and asking just in case.
Once you’ve been offered a place through Clearing, you’ll need to contact your student finance provider to let them know that you’ve changed universities, and they need to update your details.
Make sure you when you contact your university, you ask about accommodation.
Here at Solent, we’re guaranteeing accommodation to anyone who puts us as their clearing choice.
But check out our Clearing page for more info.
Contact us.
Our friendly Clearing enquiries team will be able to help:
One of the biggest differences you may find when you get to uni is how you study, and the amount of work you have to do.
Our guide will help you understand.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/discover/52-weeks/applying-for-student-finance:
Applying for student finance can feel overwhelming.
Our guide will help you understand what you need to do and when you need to do it by.
No first-year wants to start the year out of pocket and with the rising cost of living, it’s now even more important to make sure you have your student finance sorted ahead of time.
Paying for university can seem daunting, but fortunately funding is available and the good news is that you only have to start paying it back once you earn over £25,000 a year.
There are two types of loan that you'll probably apply for: tuition fees and maintenance loans.
If you haven’t already looked at our article on how to pay for uni , spend time reading through it now as we talk about the fees and costs that are associated with university, as well as the funding options and loans that are available to you.
Applying for student finance is quite simple, however the process itself is rather slow and it can take up to six weeks to process your application, so make sure you apply as early as possible.
You don't need to have university offers in place to apply for finance, and you can amend or cancel your application if needed.
Applications opened this year on 13 March but it's a good idea to follow student finance across social media, or check out their websites for the latest updates:
If you're applying internationally, the financing available will differ depending on your country.
But we've got some useful information for international students.
Applications aren't open yet, but make sure you check the relevant website (listed above) to get the latest information.
It’s important that you get your application off as soon as possible to ensure it arrives on time, which is usually 3-5 days after registering at your uni.
You won't receive a penny until you've turned up and registered.
Despite this, you can still apply for funding up to nine months after the first day of the academic year.
You should apply for finance as soon as possible and you do not need to have accepted a university place before applying.
If you apply for finance and then change your mind about the university that you want to go to, or reapply for a different course or university through Clearing, you will need to update your application for finance.
You can do this online and it is very easy to do, just sign into your student finance account and let The Student Loans Company know of the changes.
This walk-through film will show you how to update your information online.
For full-time students, sign in to your online account and follow these easy steps:
If you’re unable to make the changes online, you can upload a completed CO1 Form to your online account and The Student Loans Company can make these changes for you.
Once you've sent in your application, it's really easy to change any information.
That could be anything from your personal details to your choice of university or course.
All you have to do is log in to Student Finance England and make the changes online.
It's important that your details are correct to ensure that you aren't under- or overpaid as this may lead to you repaying your loan earlier.
When applying for your university, they may have some bursaries and grants available to help you with your studies.
It's worth checking out their websites to see what's available.
If you're applying to Solent University, here are the scholarships, grants and bursaries available.
There's also more information in our how will I pay for uni article.
You may also be eligible to apply for DSA if you require additional support at university.
DSA is a non-repayable grant that provides funding for some academic support during your studies.
Applications for DSA opens at the same time as student finance - you can find more information here .
Remember, you don't need any offers before applying for student finance, so it’s a good idea to apply now.
More and more students are choosing to stay local and commute instead.
If you're one of them, you’re part of a growing group of ‘commuter students’.
Universities have long been at the forefront of research.
This week, we show how you can get involved in research right from the start of your uni journey.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/sports-journalism-ba:
The sports journalism course gets you into the thick of the action straight away, reporting on local and national sports for both online and traditional media platforms.
You will be a practicing journalist from day one – benefiting from outstanding teaching, facilities and contacts, along with plenty of opportunities to put your learning into practice.
The course has been developed to meet the needs of the modern sports journalism industry and is accredited by the Broadcast Journalism Training Council (BJTC), which ensures you are ready to work for their industry partners (BBC, Sky News, ITN, Channel 4 News, Global Radio, Associated Press, Reuters and National Union of Journalists.
The degree boasts a broad spectrum of transferable skills - from print or broadcast to online and social media reporting – training you to produce a comprehensive news package that will engage and excite your audience.
The proof is in our graduates.
Solent sports journalists operate at a range of top broadcast companies, including Sky Sports, BBC Sport, ESPN and talkSPORT, as well as national newspapers such as The Daily Mail and The Times .
Other graduates work in the media offices of football, cricket and rugby clubs, as well as creative agencies and organisations.
At Solent, you'll have access to industry-standard software and work with real news agency material and interviews with the biggest names, via our partnership with Press Association (PA) and Independent Radio News (IRN).
In a dedicated newsroom, you will engage in news productions using high-end media equipment, where you'll be encouraged to report on a variety of sporting events and stories.
You'll also use our other industry-standard broadcast facilities including television and radio studios, editing and production facilities, and professional grade camera, audio and lighting equipment.
And the south is a fantastic location to engage with sporting activity.
Solent University is the official education partner of Championship side Southampton Football Club, while the nearby Utilita Bowl is home to Hampshire Cricket Club and hosts regular national and international matches.
The Solent is a popular race sailing location, hosting major events such as the America’s Cup.
Plus, the University has many successful sporting teams and athletes for you to create content from.
All BJTC accredited courses must meet strict guidelines and are regularly inspected to make sure they provide you with the highest professional standards of broadcast journalism training in the UK.
Enhance your editorial and technical skills.
Create a portfolio of video, audio, and academic work to impress potential employers.
Explore student examples for inspiration.
Solent’s sports journalism degree is ideally suited for people with a passion for sport, excited by the prospect of working in a demanding, deadline-driven environment, and looking to build experience in state-of-the-art facilities and using the kind of professional-grade equipment you will find out in the industry.
If you want to make an impact on the world, sports journalism at Solent could be the best choice you make.
Graduating with hands-on experience as a practising journalist, you will find many doors open to you when looking for work in sports media.
From film making, TV and radio presenting, to writing, editing, creative social media, or media officer roles, graduates have gone on to hugely diverse careers.
We have former students working in the media teams of football clubs, presenting TV and radio bulletins on Sky Sports and talkSPORT, creating videos for social media giants, writing for broadsheet newspapers/magazines and much more.
Teaching staff for the BA (Hons) Sports Journalism degree have extensive experience of working in the journalism industry as practitioners and/or are actively engaged with current research within the creative industries.
Sports journalism students benefit from multi-million-pound investment in state-of-the-art media facilities.
That means four TV studios and eight radio studios, a wide range of TV, photography and video equipment freely loaned to students, an industry-standard newsroom and dedicated edit suites with the latest software.
This module will provide you with the building blocks on which your career will be founded.
You will learn how to write engaging content for a range of media platforms, specific to sports journalism and discover what sports journalism is all about.
This module gives you a grounding in the core skills of audio production and encourages you to be creative and audience focussed as you develop broadcasting confidence.
This module looks at both continuity and change and considers historical and social factors that help to define the place of sport in the UK and beyond.
In this module you will discover how to source stories and how to write and develop them, building on techniques already learned.
You will also develop your writing style and overall sporting knowledge.
You’ll learn how to operate professional camera kit, and how to edit on industry standard equipment.
You’ll develop an understanding of how to tell stories, how to present to camera, write scripts, work to deadlines, use pictures to drive editorial and learn just how powerful a visual medium can be.
Building upon existing knowledge and understanding of journalism and the creation of news and stories, you will be introduced to the rules and regulations relating to the safe, fair and accurate arena of court reporting and how you are essential for ensuring that court processes are open and transparent.
This module will teach you how to make the very best of pictures and audio as storytelling devices.
On this module you will learn how to create and craft engaging and creative features; how to conjure up feature ideas and learn the theory in targeting the right audiences, platforms and publications, and tailoring your writing style to suit.
This module considers the complex interplay of relationships between sport, culture and national identities and will be considered from International, European and global perspectives within the context of the role played by sporting mega-events as media spectacles.
On this module you’ll develop both the editorial and technical elements required to help you create high quality journalistic content.
Including how to re-purpose your content for different platforms, telling the same story in different, creative and engaging ways.
This module will give a taste of the broad range of research techniques commonly used to generate primary data in the communications sector, including questionnaires/surveys, focus groups, content analysis, semi-structured interviews and experiential research.
The module touches on the development of the modern world.
The aim is that when you are writing a headline about, say, a British aid worker being killed by a terror group, or a threat to Europe or the USA, you’ll have a pretty good idea of why.
The module looks at a range of outstanding prose writers, mostly in literary journalism but also novelists etc., with the aim of helping you to recognize what constitutes first-rate writing.
Through this module you will demonstrate your ability to lead your own project based on the skills you have developed over your three-year degree.
At the end of the module you will have a substantial piece of work that shows what you are capable of.
On this module you’ll learn how to take your storytelling to a professional level using audio, video and text.
You’ll explore the world of investigative journalism, discovering the role your storytelling can play in delivering hard-hitting content.
You’ll explore the craft of film making in a news environment and will expand your editorial and technical skills.
This module is all about supporting you to develop a plan and getting you confident and ready for your individual next steps.
You’ll learn a range of assessment tools and will polish your writing and grammar skills in order to get you to the standard required by industry.
Through the duration of this module you will learn a breadth of useful creative and strategic PR and promotion skills.
Topics include campaign planning, event management, media relations tools and tactics, press release and pitch writing amongst others.
This module will develop your photography skills to a very high level, allowing you to be creative and professional in your image making.
You'll learn how the camera and lenses function, as well as look at a range of lighting techniques.
This modules explores travel journalism and how writing about it can help you to become a more creative, colourful, confident and employable writer.
On this module you’ll learn how to craft your storytelling in commentary and reporting form.
Working in sports journalism can carry with it long, demanding and unsociable hours – but there is nothing better than being able to mix your working life with your passions.
If you are willing to work hard and you have the right approach, the job satisfaction is huge.
Being a sports journalist gives you a free pass to some of the best events in the sporting calendar and the chance to meet your sporting heroes.
Plus you can adapt the skills you learn on this degree to almost any workplace, as we embed in our students a need to question, research, fact-check and network.
Starting salary: £15,000 to £24,000
Starting salaries can vary between local and national broadcasters.
At senior level, or with several years' experience, salaries may range from £30,000 to £60,000.
Starting salary: £20,000 to £28,000
These are starting salaries for assistant or junior social media managers.
Social media managers can typically earn between £25,000 and £45,000.
Bring your sports knowledge to radio, the internet or television screens for an exciting career in sports journalism.
Compulsory costs Purchase of an external hard drive (approx £50) and SD cards (approx £6-£20).

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/media-hub/news/a-spotlight-on-third-culture-kids:
7 August 2025
Cara Knoy, a BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduate who bid farewell to Southampton Solent University during the 2025 graduation ceremonies, has shone a spotlight on Third Culture Kids.
Around 220 million people identify as Third Culture Kids – individuals who have spent a large part of their life living away from the place their parents are from and consider home.
Inspired by her own experiences, Cara dived into exploring this community in her Final Major Project (FMP) at Solent University.
“Growing up between multiple cultures presents both enriching opportunities and unique challenges,” Cara says.
“While not everyone is directly affected, the increasing number of individuals moving across countries highlights the importance of addressing this topic.”
Third Culture Kids often lack a sense of belonging and can experience a crisis of identity.
Wanting to create conversation and offer support to others who have experiences of growing up in unfamiliar places, Cara used her FMP to create a beautiful box featuring a book, passport, stickers and information cards which explore and celebrate Third Culture Kids.
The idea is that these resources – thoughtfully designed by Cara, who poured all of the skills and knowledge gained during her studies into the making of this project – would be a kind of companion to individuals away from home and contribute to a change in the way people view their situation.
Originally from Germany, Cara spent her final year as an undergraduate studying at Solent.
On how this experience has supported her, she says, “It was incredibly rewarding – I met many interesting people and learned more about different cultures through interactions with other international students.
“I had the opportunity to gain practical experience in the design field through Solent Creatives, and as a student ambassador, which was an amazing experience.”
Now that Cara has graduated, she says, “I want to combine my diverse skillset to become the best version of myself.”
Find out more about graphic design at Solent here .

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff/academic/whysnianti-basuki:
Dr Whysnianti Basuki is an Associate Professor in Business in the Department of Business and Law at Southampton Solent University.
Whysni’s main teaching areas are management research methods and entrepreneurship.
Her other responsibilities at the University are leading the Regenerative Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Research Group , serving as Postgraduate Research Lead for Business and Law, and supervising postgraduate taught students and PhD students.
In terms of research, Whysni’s main research interests are located within female entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship education, and entrepreneurial intention.
Whysni is very passionate in supporting female entrepreneurs to run and grow their business.
In her works she seeks to develop understanding of the challenges/barriers that are faced by female entrepreneurs.
Based on her research findings, she organised workshops for these female entrepreneurs with the aim to reduce the challenges/barriers these female entrepreneurs faced.
Still in research, Whysni was involved in research projects related to entrepreneurship education and entrepreneurial intention, such as 'How Higher Education Institutions in Europe Deal with the Quality Assurance of their Entrepreneurship Programmes', 'Mandatory Entrepreneurship Education and its impact on student’s entrepreneurial intentions', and 'Personal values in the formation of entrepreneurial motivations: a cross-country study'.
In terms of reviewing activities, Whysni has reviewed papers for publication for several entrepreneurship journals (e.g.
Journal of Global Entrepreneurship Research , International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Small Business , Journal of Enterprising Communities: People and Places in the Global Economy , and the International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing ) and conferences (eg, the Diana Female Entrepreneurship conference and Academy of Management ).
In addition, she is currently serving as a member of the Editorial Board of two international journals, and is a member of the Scientific and Publication Committee of the European University Network on Entrepreneurship .
In terms of organising conferences, Whysni has organised several, including the ESU (European University Network on Entrepreneurship) 2015 Conference and Doctoral Programme and annual Southampton Solent University Student Conference since 2022.
Currently she is organising the ESU 2025 Conference and Doctoral Programme, to be held on 1-6 September 2025.
More information about ESU2025 conference is available on the ESU website .
Whysni’s research interests are in the entrepreneurship topic areas (particularly female entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship education, and entrepreneurial intention).
She successfully supervised five PhD students to complete their PhD.
Currently, she is supervising two PhD students and is looking to supervise PhD students in these areas.
Please contact Whysni to discuss your PhD project proposal.
Peer-reviewed journal articles
Hueso, J.
A., Jaén, I., Liñán, F., and Basuki, W.
The influence of collectivistic personal values on the formation of entrepreneurial intentions.
International Small Business Journal, 38 (5), 449-473.
Basuki, W.
, and Henderson, S.
(2003).
Whatever Happened to the Excellent Marketers – A Study of Financial Performance and Excellent Marketing.
Journal of General Management , 29(2), pp.
70-88.
Available at http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/030630700302900205
Journal paper
Basuki, W .
and Henderson, S.
' Whatever Happened to the Excellent Marketers – A Study of Financial Performance and Excellent Marketing' .
Journal of General Management, 29(2), pp.
Other papers/case studies
McLellan, R., Patrick, S., Dinsmore, C., Faustino, A., Almpanis T.
and Basuki, W ., 2011.
'Working with E-Champions to Enhance Flexible Learning '.
Solent Dialogue, vol.
1, pp.
33-39.
' Working with E-Champions to Enhance Flexible Learning '.
BMAF Magazine, issue 10, pp.
6-9.
Watkins, D., Basuki, W ., Bernard, R., Bradley, N., Dabic, M., Dou, J., Houbrechts, G., Marinova, B., Perez.
J., Terrasse, C.
and Tsakirakis, A.
' How Higher Education Institutions in Europe Deal with the Quality Assurance of their Entrepreneurship Programmes '.
Case studies funded by the European Commission.
Book chapter
Lockyer, J., Chukwuma-Nwuba, E.
O., Irene, B., and Basuki, W.
(2024).
The Inculcation of Entrepreneurship into Tertiary Education: An Evaluation of the Impact of Policy Driven Entrepreneurship Education in Emerging Economies.
In Crammond, R., and Hyams-Ssekasi, D.
(Eds).
Entrepreneurship Education and Internationalisation: Cases, Collaborations and Contexts .
Conference papers
Personal values in the formation of entrepreneurial motivations: a cross-country study.
ESU Conference in Entrepreneurship 2017 , Leuphana University, Luneburg, Germany, 4-9 September 2017.
Wareham, B., and Basuki, W.
Values and Entrepreneurial Intention of UK Graduates.
British Undergraduate Conference , Bournemouth, 25-26 May 2017.
Female Entrepreneurs and Growth Strategies.
Women Entrepreneurship Conference Bangkok , Bangkok University, Thailand, 3-5 April 2017.
Strategic Managerial Behaviour and Attributes of Female Entrepreneurs in Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in the UK.
Women Entrepreneurship Conference Bangkok , Bangkok University, Thailand, 22-24 June 2015.
and Bradley, N.
Entrepreneurial Intentions of UK University Students: New Data.
FBSE Conference , Southampton Solent University, 12th June 2014.
Basuki, W , Fakoussa, R.
(2012).
' Entrepreneurial Intentions of UK University Students '.
Paper was presented at the ESU Conference on Entrepreneurship 2012, University of Southern Denmark, Kolding, Denmark, 20 - 24 August 2012.
' Entrepreneurship Intention among students '.
Paper was presented at the RENTXXV conference, Bodo, Norway, 16 -18 November 2011.
Almpanis T., Patrick, S., McLellan, R., Dinsmore, C., Faustino, A.
and Basuki, W ., 2010.
' Proposing a Framework for Blended and Flexible Course Design '.
In: Kinshuk et al., eds.
' Cognition and Exploratory Learning in Digital Age ': 7th International Conference, CELDA2010, Timisoara, Romania, October 15 - 17, 2010.
Organised by IADIS International Association for the Development of the Information Society.
Conference Proceedings, pp.
263 – 267.
Patrick, S., McLellan, R., Dinsmore, C., Faustino, A., Almpanis, T and Basuki, W ., 2010.
HEA/BMAF Project – ‘ Working with E-Champions to Enhance Flexible Learning ’.
CAMEL event, Faculty of Business Sport and Enterprise Southampton Solent University, 10th June 2010.
and Watkins, D.
' Commercial Loan Officers’ Perceptions of Female Entrepreneurs’ Strategies '.
Paper was presented at the ESU Conference on Entrepreneurship 2009, University of Sannio Benevento, Italy, 8 - 13 September 2009.
Watkins, D.
and Basuki, W .
(2008).
'History and Herstory of the Entrepreneurship Literature: Bibliometrics of Gender in Focus and Production' .
Paper was presented at the Academy of Management Annual Meeting, Anaheim, CA, August 2008.
' Evolution of the Field of Entrepreneurship: Gender in Production and Focus '.
Paper was presented at The Enterprise Development Growth and Expansion (EDGE) Conference, Singapore Management University, Singapore, 3 – 5 July 2006.
Basuki, W ., Hyder, L.
and Bradley, N.K.
(2005).
' Entrepreneurship Education: The Added Value of Consultancy Projects.
' Paper was presented at The European Summer University of Entrepreneurship, Paris Dauphine University, Paris, 15 – 22 September 2005.
' Gender and Strategic Choice in Entrepreneurial Ventures '.
Paper was presented at The Enterprise Development Growth and Expansion (EDGE) Conference, Singapore Management University, Singapore, 11 – 13 July 2005.
Basuki, W ., Bradley, N.
and Brown, S.
(2004).
' A Business Incubation Model Following Higher Education Courses '.
Paper was presented at The Fourth European Summer University, Paris Dauphine University, Paris, 24 September – 1 October 2004.
' Studying Strategic Attributes of Entrepreneurs in Small Medium-Sized Enterprises '.
Paper was presented at The Third European Summer University, Paris Dauphine University, Paris, 26 June – 3 July 2003.
Academic magazines
McLellan, R., Patrick, S., Dinsmore, C., Faustino, A., Almpanis, T., and Basuki, W.
Working with E-Champions to Enhance Flexible Learning.
Solent Dialoque, vol 1, pp.
Reports
Henderson, S., Basuki, W.
, Shah, Z., and Nichols, E.
Evaluation on a European Commission funded project: Building European Environment and Maritime Skills .
This evaluation project and the project itself were funded by European Commission through INTERREG Programme France (Channel) – England, Priority 2: Build partnerships for cross-border economic development and centers of excellence.
Working with E-Champions to Enhance Flexible Learning .
Project funded by Higher Education Academy.
Watkins, D., Basuki, B., Bernard, R., Bradley, N., Dabic, M., Dou, J., Houbrechts, G., Marinova, B., Perez, J., Terrasse, C., and Tsakirakis, A.
How Higher Education Institutions in Europe Deal with the Quality Assurance of their Entrepreneurship Programmes.
The challenges of female entrepreneurs to grow their business.
A comparison study between the UK and Sweden.
A Guide to Entrepreneurship Literature Reviews , published by Edward Elgar, Publishing in 2027.
Book editors: Hans Landström, Lund U., Sweden, Whysnianti Basuki, Southampton Solent University, UK, Alain Fayolle, IDRAC Business School, France, Kim Klyver, University of Southern Denmark, Denmark, and Francisco Liñán, University of Seville, Spain.
For more information, please visit the ESU website.
Add value to your organisation with a graduate MBA from Solent.
Develop a deeper understanding of business and the challenges facing today's global economy.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff/academic/akash-puranik:
Akash is a Senior Lecturer in Business and Management within the Department of Business and Law, with a Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.
He has been engaged in UK academia for over a decade, and has delivered for various business studies modules at undergraduate, as well as postgraduate level, primarily focusing on the latter.
Prior to this, Akash worked in the hospitality and service industry and often draws on these practical aspects for his teaching.
Akash's doctoral research focused on exploring how non-contractual, informal collaborations, set up with the intention of benefitting communities, are organised.
His ethnographic work developed an inductive understanding through an in-depth exploration of a few exceptional cases.
Qualitative research methods and methodological considerations surrounding them remain closely aligned to his research and teaching interests.
Akash’s has received his PhD from the Open University in 2021.
Prior to this, he has completed his Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) with University of Westminster and a Master’s in Business Administration (MBA) with the University of Wales.
Other qualifications include MRes from the Open University and a Bachelor in Business Administration (BBA) from Tilak Mahararshta University, India.
Akash did his bachelor's degree in management in hospitality and worked in hospitality and the service industry for over five years before joining academia.
Before beginning his PhD with The Open University, Akash worked as a lecturer on MBA programmes delivered by Glyndwr University and University of Wales for over four years, designing and delivering modules for strategy, marketing, and business environment.
He also worked as a lecturer in marketing for Ealing Hammersmith and West London College for courses ranging from level 4 to level 7.
Akash's research interests lie in informal organising, strategy in practice, collaborative work, and research methodologies.
Cooper, M.
and Puranik, A., 2014.
The Elements Driving Higher Education Students' Choice of Institution.
The International Journal of Learning in Higher Education , 20(3), pp.1-12.
‘(Dis)ordering within and through a chaotic method: justifying a messy ethnography’ presented at the 14th Annual Ethnography Symposium, Portsmouth – won the best paper presentation award – paper currently under review for the Journal of Organisational Ethnography

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/staff/academic/richard-scullion:
Dr Richard Scullion is an Associate Professor in Business and Marketing in the Department of Business and Law.
He is a Principal Fellow of HE advance, demonstrating the seriousness with which he takes his teaching practice.
Richard gained his PhD from the LSE on consumerist choice and its implication for democracy.
He has published widely on issues of marketisation, marketing communication, civic culture and political communication.
His research interests now focus on critically informed pedagogy and entrepreneurship.
Before moving into academia, Richard worked for 20 years in the commercial world mainly as a marketing manager for various companies including in both the travel and media industries.
While working in academia, Richard has remained active with, for example:
Supervisor for Knowledge Transfer Programme (KTP) between Bournemouth University and ML Electronics, Salisbury.
September 2004 to December 2006.
Richard has over 20 years' experience at all levels within higher education.
He is a Principal Fellow of HE and has held many external roles for other universities.
Richard's current and recent teaching (unit/module titles and levels):
2017 Scullion, R., 2017.
Embedding Social Responsibility in HE Corporate Communications Degrees.
The Place of CSR in Teaching Corporate Communications Programs (Advertising, Branding and Public Relations).
In Corporate Social Responsibility in the Post-Financial Crisis Era (pp.
3-23).
2018 Nixon, E., Scullion, R.
and Hearn, R., 2018.
Her majesty the student: marketised higher education and the narcissistic (dis) satisfactions of the student-consumer.
Studies in Higher Education, 43(6), pp.927-943.
Reprinted in special edition.
2018 Haywood, H.
and Scullion, R., 2018.
‘It’s quite difficult letting them go, isn’t it?’ UK parents’ experiences of their child’s higher education choice process.
Studies in Higher Education, 43(12), pp.2161-2175.
2018 Scullion, R.
and Armon, S., 2018.
Democracy in a de-civilizing age: The rise of shameless personal truths.
International Journal of Media & Cultural Politics, 14(3), pp.283-300.
2019 Pullen, E., Jackson, D., Silk, M.
and Scullion, R., 2019.
Re-presenting the Paralympics:(contested) philosophies, production practices and the hypervisibility of disability.
Media, culture & society, 41(4), pp.465-481.
2019 Savigny, H.
The politics of normalising gendered violence: feminised austerity and masculinised wealth creation.
European Journal of Politics and Gender, Vol 2 No 3 pp363-380
Primarily, Richard is interested in cultural dimensions of marketisation – used as a verb.
He is also interested in continuing to study pertinent issues around pedagogy in HE.
Solent University Vice-Chancellor's Award in 2020 for outstanding contribution.
The lonely Lecturer – investigating the impact of online teaching on academic identity and performance
Investigating the prime causes of student failure in assessments at M level

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeships/registered-nurse-degree-nmc2018-apprenticeship:
The Registered Nurse degree apprenticeship offers the latest technologies and education to enable you to develop your clinical, assessment and decision-making skills.
If you have the qualities and philosophy required to become a caring, effective, professional and safe practitioner, this course gives you the opportunity to fully explore what it means to be a Registered Nurse and to further develop the other qualities essential to this role.
We currently offer the Registered Nurse (Adult) pathway aligned to the Institute for Apprenticeships standard .
The standard covers four core domains:
As a Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC)-approved programme, we encompass the four themes of their professional code into everything we deliver:
This apprenticeship is underpinned by our BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice .
On successful completion of the programme you’ll be eligible to apply to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council as an adult nurse.
Hear from our students
Read about current student, Ellie Peplinski's experience on this apprenticeship.
Funded by:
With further experience, future careers can include advanced practice nursing, nurse education and mentoring, and healthcare management, such as ward sister or lead nurse.
This course is ideal for anyone who wishes to pursue a career in adult nursing within the NHS, private or community healthcare services.
Prospective apprentices should currently be employed in a healthcare role.
Nurse apprentices will have access to the same facilities offered to students on the BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice degree, as well as other full-time students.
This includes access to all specialist labs and equipment relevant to your course of study, including our new nursing simulation suite.
Successful apprentices will graduate with a: BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing Practice
To study for an apprenticeship, you must be employed and have a contract that will cover the duration of your apprenticeship.
All apprentice applications need to go through apprenticeships@solent.ac.uk in the first instance.
Applicants will be expected to provide the following documents during the onboarding process:
Please note: if any certificates are from outside of the UK, you will need to have a Naric Equivalency Statement alongside the certificates.
Maths and English delivery to achieve Functional Skills Level 2 can be provided for some courses and should be discussed at onboarding stage if you do not have Maths and English certificates at Grade 4/C and above.
Successful applicants may be able to transfer credits from another course or experiential learning.
Recognition of prior learning must be capable of being mapped to the standards of proficiency for registered nurses and programme outcomes, up to a maximum of 50 percent of the programme.
Applicants who hold registration with the NMC as a nurse may be able to transfer more than 50%.
To be eligible for an apprenticeship, you must:
If you are an employer or a potential apprentice and would like to have an in-depth conversation with us about potential opportunities, please email apprenticeships@solent.ac.uk .
Solent offers a diverse range of higher and degree apprenticeships, some of which will include an additional qualification that will be studied within the Apprenticeship Standard, eg: HNC, BA or BSc.
We work in partnership with the University to build a sense of pride and confidence in your Union, University and student experience.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeships/chartered-manager-degree-apprenticeship:
This flexible apprenticeship programme provides research and learning for the ever-changing world of business, applying theoretical models to real-life case studies and your own organisation.
A fast-track business degree apprenticeship is the ideal way to take advantage of the recognised prior learning you have developed in the work place.
The BA (Hons) Leadership and Management forms the taught programme and is supported by a professional development module for the End Point Assessment of the apprenticeship, designed to supplement your on-the-job experience.
Most candidates will have A Levels or other relevant Level 3 qualifications, as well as English and Maths at Level 2.
Other relevant prior experience has to be demonstrated but can include a HND or foundation degree.
Over two years, the course focuses on developing lifelong skills and encourages personal development.
As a management apprentice on the CMDA programme you’ll have the opportunity to earn Chartered Manager status, as a result of your successful apprentice End Point Assessment, accredited by the Chartered Management Institute, and benefit from a range of master classes from guest speakers, as well as regular networking opportunities.
Apprentices enrolled to this course must be employed in a suitable role and be supported by their employer.
As part of this commitment, employers will need to provide the necessary opportunities for employees to achieve Chartered Manager status by the end of the study period.
This degree has been designed as part of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills initiative for developing employees to management level.
Upon completion of the degree students will have progressed to a management level within their company and earned Chartered Manager status.
This fast-track option is ideal for those who may already have practical experience, but wish to develop their theoretical understanding of management skills further.
Students will need to demonstrate recognised prior learning that has been developed in the work place.
The integrated BA (Hons) Leadership and Management programme is supported by a professional development unit designed to supplement this recognised prior learning.
This module is all about you and how you can be equipped to deliver in a globalised, high-tech and disruptive world as an effective strategic leader!
This module enables leaders to know how to develop and influence an organisation’s strategic direction through development of a meaningful strategy.
The aim of this module is for you to develop an in-depth understanding of how to effectively lead and develop people.
You will start with the context in which a marketing strategy is developed.
Then it’s learning to be able to appraise theoretical frameworks and processes which inform the strategy, alongside reflecting on the interrelationship between marketing and the organisation’s strategic aims, along with opportunities and impact of digital marketing, all compounding in considering how to develop a marketing strategy.
In this module you will learn how to be more confident in your understanding of the finance function by understanding the scope, complexity and role of finance within an organisational context.
In this module you will learn how to undertake applied research with the ability to generate new knowledge, based on the practical challenges of the workplace.
Successful apprentices will graduate with a: BA (Hons) Leadership and Management
" The programme has sharpened my strategic thinking and helped me to reflect critically on my leadership practice.
"
Chris Loveday, Vice-Principal, Barton Peveril Sixth Form College
* Maths and English delivery to achieve Functional Skills Level 2 can be provided for some courses and should be discussed at onboarding stage if you do not have Maths and English certificates at Grade 4/C and above.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeships/social-worker-integrated-degree-apprenticeship:
Are you looking to pursue a career in a rewarding profession?
Solent’s social work apprenticeship degree will help you develop a thorough grounding of the standards required to become a professional social worker.
You’ll develop leadership skills alongside other skills, knowledge, values and first-hand experience, key to making a difference to the lives of vulnerable people.
The first two years of this apprenticeship degree concentrate on learning the basis of professional social work and includes looking at subjects such as social work theory, working in organisations and communities, law, psychology and human development and sociology and society.
For your final year, you can choose to specialise in adults or children and families to help focus your career path upon graduation.
An important element of the course is the approval gained from industry regulator Social Work England.
As a result, you’re eligible to register as a qualified social worker once you’ve graduated.
The qualification is also valid for practice in Europe, Canada, Australia and the USA, widening the career opportunities for graduates wishing to travel after their degree.
The course team’s strong links with local employers, service users and carers within the industry have allowed previous students the opportunity to practice the theory they’ve learnt in work placements, enabling them to build their skills and confidence as a social worker and develop their professional network.
These established links with the industry have also allowed past students to attend regular guest lectures where they have benefitted from talks delivered by social work professionals giving valuable insight into the industry and the career opportunities available.
Both an academic qualification and, importantly, a professional qualification, this course is approved by Social Work England – this means that you’ll be eligible to apply for registration as a social worker on successful completion of your degree.
Approved by:
Social workers have opportunities to work with other professionals such as the police and doctors, to plan support and offer services to those in need of care and support.
If a social worker is successful in enabling change, it can mean that a child or vulnerable adult may achieve a new lease of life and positive possibilities for the future.
This BA (Hons) Social Work programme prepares students for a wide range of social work and community care roles.
You’ll need a non-judgemental attitude, an appreciation of diversity, self-awareness, flexibility and openness to new ideas.
In addition, you’ll be able to demonstrate relevant skills such as empathy, active listening, negotiating and advocacy.
Ideal candidates should aspire to work with vulnerable members of the community.
Applicants typically come from a wide range of academic backgrounds.
In this module you will journey through the historical changes in society which have led to the formation of social work and how it developed as a profession.
This module will introduce you to a critical understanding of the historical context of social work and the changing role of politics and the State in relation to social work.
This module introduces the general legal context and framework for social work practice in respect to working with vulnerable children, young people and adults.
You will gain an understanding of key legislation and determine the associated social work duties and responsibilities.
You will learn about the stages of human development throughout the lifespan with a focus on cognitive psychological development, psycho-social and emotional theories, mental health and the interaction between the environment and a person’s psychology.
This module builds on the knowledge acquired while studying ‘Sociological Perspectives in Contemporary Society’ in the first semester and explores the origins of community social work.
This module runs over period one and two of the academic calendar.
This is your primary, formative year: where you begin to consolidate and integrate learning from both the taught modules, and you will use this to underpin the development of your practice within your workplace.
This module leads to a deeper understanding of your professional identity and develops an understanding of the application of the law and social policy in relation to social work practice.
It is important for social workers to identify, understand and be able to analyse and evaluate a range of different theory, models and methods used when working with people with lived experience and in need of social work.
This module will introduce you to a range of different theories, models and methods of intervention that can be used in a variety of areas.
The module explores ‘big picture’ topics, such as the role of law and wider political factors.
In addition, we look at everyday practice, including teamwork and assertiveness.
We will also consider working in partnership and organisations from a systemic perspective.
How professionals work together is a key issue of the module.
You will be allocated to a team working in an area of social work where you will be working to acquire skills and knowledge, as well as utilising your current skill set.
This module requires you to ‘step-up’ from level 4.
To achieve this, you will receive coaching from your line manager, colleagues and the University.
Bringing together your learning from your degree and your work-based learning experience, this module will enable you to reflect and consolidate your knowledge and skills within a professional context.
This module is a further ‘step-up’ from level 5.
You will continue to receive support from your line manager, colleagues and the university.
The expectation at this level is that you will be able to work more autonomously and you will feel increasingly confident in using your professional judgement, while working under the guidance of your line manager.
This module further develops your knowledge and skills in reflection, engagement, research techniques, multi-agency working, analysis and effective writing.
Successful apprentices will graduate with a: BA (Hons) Social Work
This course is assessed via essays, presentations, projects, posters, oral communication with service user, direct observations, and portfolios and used to assess all elements of the course.
The 2025/26 other costs are not yet available.
For guidance, previous other costs have been:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/applied-mechanical-engineering-hnc:
If you are currently employed in the engineering industry, or looking to take your first steps into this industry, this practical and flexible course will help you to further your career.
This Higher Nationals course aims to provide students with the knowledge employers require, from essential engineering concepts to mechanics, drawing, CAD and manufacturing.
You can gain a broad understanding of the principles and practices of mechanical engineering, as well as the technical knowledge and practical skills for employment in the mechanical engineering sectors.
Students will learn a range of mechanical systems, components, and processes and their applications, as well as developing the ability to apply mathematical and scientific principles to analyse and solve mechanical engineering problems.
You'll also foster an appreciation of environmental sustainability, ethical conduct, safety, and professional standards in mechanical engineering.
Our inclusive provision meets the career aspirations of students from a range of educational and experiential backgrounds, especially those who are already in employment.
Students will learn in a rich, stimulating and intellectually challenging environment that will prepare them for a career in mechanical engineering or related fields, such as such as manufacturing, automation, robotics, materials, computer-aided design (CAD) and the design process.
Solent's HNC Applied Mechanical Engineering course is tailored to students who enjoy problem-solving and have a keen interest in designing, developing, and maintaining mechanical systems.
It is ideal for students already employed in the engineering industry, about to start their career or looking for a career change, in a range of technical and professional roles in mechanical engineering, from automotive to aerospace.
The course is designed to meet the needs of local and regional employers by delivering a provision geared to their requirements.
It is a first step on the journey towards becoming incorporated engineer.
Graduates of this course can look to make a positive contribution to the mechanical engineering sector with their skills and knowledge.
It opens career prospects for technician level roles in the mechanical engineering industry such as: mechanical design, maintenance engineering, aerospace engineering, automotive engineer, engineering, heating, ventilation and air conditioning engineering, manufacturing engineering, patent engineering.
Students benefit from a range of multifunctional workshops and labs, including a dedicated computer/CAD suite.
Specialist facilities include a production and electronics laboratory for designing, building and testing electronic circuitry; and a heat treatment laboratory containing furnaces that can heat treat steels and alloys.
Non-destructive testing, including XRF analysis, is also available.
The materials testing laboratory has large tensile testing machines, and the manufacturing laboratory features a range of advanced equipment such as a range of additive manufacturing equipment that can produce detailed 3D printed components, a rapid prototyping machine, and a laser cutter.
On this module you will learn how to apply a range of mathematical techniques to realistic engineering problems.
You will use basic algebra and solve simultaneous equations and equations of straight lines to answer engineering problems around linked variables in mechanics and electronics.
The aim of the module is to demonstrate the role of an engineer as an engineering designer.
This module is designed to foster an understanding of the fundamentals of the engineering design process and its various stages.
It equips you with theoretical and practical technical knowledge to design a product by going through the various stages of the design process.
This module is designed to introduce you to the electrical and electronic principles necessary to analyse circuit behaviour and design.
It also provides the foundation for further study of more specialised electrical/electronic engineering techniques used later in your course.
This module helps you to develop an awareness of the factors affecting the selection of materials and processes used in manufacturing a product.
It does this by comparing the attributes of materials and the suitability of processes in the light of the external factors that need to be considered when developing the product design specification.
This module will give you an understanding of the fundamental principles used by engineers to design vehicles, machines and buildings.
You will learn to analyse forces on the performance of machines and structures and how to conduct tests and experiments to confirm the results on your analysis.
This module will introduce you to the profession of engineering.
This includes both theoretical and professional skills relating to the role of the professional engineer and also supports your transition into higher education.
According to the Engineering Council , 18 per cent of the UK's workforce works in engineering.
However, the sector is experiencing a skills shortage with a number of engineering occupations featuring in the Government's shortage occupations list.
Electronic engineering is one of these occupations, meaning there should be many opportunities for industry-ready graduates to make their mark.
The mechanical engineering industry has a wide-ranging impact on sectors such as manufacturing, automotive, aerospace, androbotics.
As technology continues to advance, the demand for skilled mechanical engineers remains strong, offering diversecareer opportunities and competitive salaries.
Pursuing a career inmechanical engineering allows individuals to be at the forefront of innovation, designing and developing the systems and machines that shape our world.
Starting salary: £22,000 to £28,000
With experience, salaries can increase to between £25,000 and £35,000.
Mid-level or principal engineers could earn around £35,000 to £50,000.
Graduate starting salary: £20,000 to £25,000
Experienced or incorporated engineers can earn between £30,000 and £40,000.
Chartered engineers can earn £40,000 and above.
Starting salary: £17,000 to £20,000
With experience, this can rise to between £20,000 and £30,000.
Senior or chartered CAD technicians can earn £35,000 to £50,000.
Students from outside the UK are usually unable to obtain a visa for part-time study.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/architectural-design-and-technology-ba:
Build your architectural career with a professionally accredited degree that delivers industry specific skills and experience.
Taught by a dedicated and well-qualified team, the architectural design and technology course is professionally accredited by the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists , meaning that the curriculum meets the specific needs of the architectural technology industry.
The course explores three branches of the fascinating architectural technology industry: design, technology and professional practice, and the curriculum equips students with a strong grounding in architectural design, construction technology, technical design, sustainability and professional practice.
Students also have the opportunity to work in our architectural studio.
Fully-equipped with the latest industry standard software, this modern studio space was developed to give a sense of the feel and atmosphere of a working professional studio, bringing students together from various built environment courses to collaborate as they would in the real-world workplace.
Our graduates regularly win top industry awards, including the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists' (CIAT) 2022 AT awards where recent graduate, Ian Westhead was awarded the Student Award for Excellence in Architectural Technology Project .
Solent students will study in the heart of an exciting city undergoing significant development.
Accredited courses are assessed for their content, structure and resources against standards set by the Institute - an assurance that you'll develop your academic and employability skills for a career in the industry.
This architectural design and technology course is the ideal first step for those who want to lead architectural projects from inception to completion.
This course prepares graduates for a range of careers within a number of organisations, such as architectural and architectural technology practices, local authorities and building contractors.
The majority of our graduates find employment as architectural technologists within architectural practices, such as Corstorphine & Wright, ADAM Architecture, HPW, HGP Architects, Noviun Architects, HNW architects and even as far afield as Spain and Australia.
Some graduates work for local government, such as Hampshire County Council and Dorset County Council.
Architectural Technologist
Facilities available to students include AutoCAD, Revit, Google SketchUp Pro, 3D printers and large format scanners.
By using industry-standard hardware and software, Solent students can develop the specific skills required by the architectural technology industry such as sketching and computer-aided drawing – as well as transferable skills they can apply in other industries.
This module will introduce you to the principles of architectural design as a core skill for your discipline.
The module aims to establish the fundamental link between creative design and the technological, environmental, social and historic context.
This module introduces you to the principles of construction technology focusing on low-rise, predominantly domestic-scale buildings.
This module will enable you to learn standard architectural graphic conventions and techniques, developing the freehand and technical detailing skills which are at the core of the architectural profession.
In this module you will be able to extend the creative design skills developed in previous modules into the next stage of the process: realisation of design concepts into technical interior and visual details according to your chosen discipline of study.
The module provides an introduction to general legal practices and procedures – sources of law, e.g.
English legal system, courts and legislation and contract law.
This module plays an important role in your learning it exposes you to the scientific principles of materials used in architecture, engineering and construction.
This module provides you with the opportunity to apply the architectural design principles learned previously to a larger scale project and extend your architectural design skills to more complex projects.
This module will enable you to produce advanced technical details building on the knowledge and skills gained from previous modules.
Key to this module is developing a problem-solving approach to realise design into built form through the generation of detailed technical solutions.
The module is designed to provide you with the knowledge and practical skills required to identify refurbishment solutions to improve building performance, align it to future needs and produce reports and record drawings of buildings.
This module builds upon the knowledge and understanding of the principles of construction technology gained at Level 4.
It is designed to provide you with an understanding of the technology used in creating modern complex buildings.
Building Information Modelling is a module that concentrates on Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) and their applications in the built environment.
This module will expose you to the nitty-gritties involved in procuring and successfully managing a construction project.
This module provides you with the opportunity to explore the key issues associated with sustainability and innovation in the design, production and performance of buildings.
In this module, you will explore the key technical issues associated with sustainability and innovation in the design, production and performance of buildings.
The module is designed to develop knowledge, understanding and skills in production of information, specification writing and compilation, the administration of building contracts in line with professional requirements of the industry for the benefit of clients.
This module addresses the interface between the educational setting and professional practice in architectural technology.
Core to this module is the concept of professional ethics and the Code of Conduct of the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT).
In this module you will be able to demonstrate the skills and knowledge gained from all modules studied previously.
You will have with the opportunity to carry out independent research into a discipline-related topic.
This module will enable you to find solutions to problems that you will encounter whilst working in various roles in future.
You will select a topic of your choice to explore in-depth to find answers to the issues that we encounter in the industry.
From the London skyline to Southampton’s own major development projects, you only need to look around to see how architecture in the UK is ever-evolving.
Innovative buildings such as the Shard and the Gherkin, projects such as the Battersea Power Station development, and plans for the tallest residential building in the UK at South Quay Plaza reveal a flourishing industry – and an ever-increasing need for talented graduates with the right blend of technical skills and architectural vision.
The course has very strong links with the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT).
The CIAT, together with the CIAT South East Region, normally award prizes at our end-of-year show.
The prestigious Building Research Establishment (BRE) Academy, and industry partners have also awarded prizes.
Gaining work experience is a key element of the course and students are encouraged to find work placements to build their skills in a real-life environment.
Past students have found placements with companies such as Stride Treglown, LSH Architects, HPW, Simpson Hilder associates, BrightSpace Architects, and ADAM Architecture.
With a few years' experience at mid-level seniority, salaries fall between £24,000 and £45,000, rising to £60,000 at senior level.
Starting salary: £20,000 to £35,000
Salaries vary, depending on the sector.
Experienced project managers could earn between £40,000 and £80,000, depending on the sector.
Part I architectural assistant: £15,000 to £20,000
As a Part II architectural assistant, salaries can rise to between £25,000 and £35,000 with experience.
Fully qualified (Part III) architects could earn between £32,000 and £45,000.
Top 10
in the UK for graduate prospects - outcomes, a measure of the success in employability or further study of graduates completing their first degree (ranked 7 out of 50 institutions)
Complete University Guide, 2025
Develop your theory and practical skills to graduate from this course as a specialist designer with the education and vision required to help create a sustainable future for the construction industry.
For guidance, the 2024/25 costs were:
Optional:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/architectural-technology-hnc:
Build on your existing experience to earn an internationally recognised higher education qualification and be better prepared to take on more advanced roles in the architectural technology sector.
Highly regarded by local employers, this regularly revised Higher Nationals programme helps students to develop a sound understanding of the design and detailing required to complete major construction projects.
Students also learn fundamental design principles, health and safety requirements and critical thinking skills.
The industry-focused curriculum encourages students to develop practical skills.
Our professional facilities include construction-specific laboratories, computer-aided design (CAD) stations, Revit, Adobe Creative Suite, Google SketchUp Pro, 3D printers and large format printers and scanners.
By using these resources, Solent students can develop the specific skills required by the architectural technology industry – as well as a range of transferable skills that are applicable in other industries.
Students also have the opportunity to work in our architectural design studio.
This modern space is developed to mirror the atmosphere of a working professional studio, bringing students together from various building design courses to collaborate on multidisciplinary projects just as they would in the workplace.
This course is aimed at those already in the construction industry, and who wish to study part-time while they work.
The course is ideal for those in junior architectural roles who wish to broaden their knowledge of architectural design and technology to advance their career into more senior positions.
As a part-time student you’re expected to already be employed within the construction industry.
The programme has a strong commitment and excellent reputation for the career development of its students both during and post-studies.
This HNC provides students with a platform to progress onto a number of full degrees including BA (Hons) Architectural Design and Technology (part-time).
The course team have extensive industry experience, holding memberships at the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists, Chartered Institute of Builders (CIOB), the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), the Association of Building Engineers (ABE), the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA).
The team also have a strong network of industry contacts, which has given past students access to guest speakers, live briefs and site visits.
The dedicated studio is based on the kind of environment that students will experience in the workplace.
It is fully equipped with the latest in computer-aided design tools and equipment including Mac and PC CAD stations, Revit, Vector Works, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Google SketchUp Pro, plotters, large format scanners and digital cameras.
Most importantly, it is an area where students and tutors can work together on projects in a professional but relaxed and friendly environment.
From the London skyline to Southampton’s own major development projects, you only need to look around to see that architecture in the UK is ever-evolving.
Students from outside the EU are usually unable to obtain a visa for part-time study.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeships/assistant-practitioner-health-apprenticeship:
Healthcare assistant practitioners work as part of the wider health and social care team, and have direct contact with patients, service users or clients providing high quality and compassionate care.
We currently offer the Healthcare Assistant Practitioner pathway aligned to the Institute for Apprenticeships standard .
The apprenticeship has been developed alongside our partner NHS Trusts and local care providers.
The course draws on considerable expertise to deliver a sector-specific curriculum including pathways into nursing, allied healthcare, healthcare science, and administration and management.
This apprenticeship is underpinned by FdSc Health and Social Care.
Upon successful completion, you'll achieve a foundation degree in health and social care practice.
Read about current student, Abbie-Elise Rogers' experience on this apprenticeship.
This course offers you the latest technologies to enable you develop a range of clinical skills and knowledge, based on your employer's requirements and depending on the clinical or professional area in which you work.
This could include health promotion and preventing ill health, monitoring care, team work, undertaking diagnostic tests, improving safety and quality of care, and contributing to integrated care working under the supervision of a registered practitioner.
This apprenticeship is suitable for those already working in a healthcare setting who feel they have the qualities and philosophy required to become a caring, effective, professional and safe practitioner.
Assistant practitioner apprentices should demonstrate the following values:
Course Leader, Academic Practice
Successful apprentices will graduate with a: FdSc Health and Social Care Practice

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/biomedical-science-bsc:
Biomedical scientists are at the forefront of diagnosing and treating diseases.
Our biomedical science degree will give you the lab and research skills to help drive modern medicine.
Our expert teaching teams will help you to develop the skills required to succeed in biomedical science.
You will be supported to develop practical and analytical skills, exploring the latest technologies and experimental treatments.
You’ll learn to undertake biomedical science research that can lead to the development of new diagnostic procedures or therapeutic intervention strategies.
You’ll also look at the way that advances in technology can support the self-management of health.
Throughout this course you will have the opportunity to study in our bespoke laboratory facilities.
These have been created specifically to support small groups of students as they build their portfolio of lab experience.
Your competency will be developed through practical classes and reinforced by our virtual learning environment.
Professional development and reflective practice assignments ensure that you are able to apply what you have learnt.
Employability sits at the heart of our teaching.
An individual final year research project and work-related laboratory assignments mean that you’ll graduate feeling ready to take the next steps in your career.
You will work with biomedical science practitioners and other professionals throughout all three years of the course.
As a graduate from Solent's biomedical science programme, you will have a strong foundation of scientific knowledge coupled with proven technical skills.
This provides a starting point for a wide-range NHS, pharmaceutical or biotechnology careers.
Registering as a biomedical scientist with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) is required for many NHS careers.
The IBMS Registration Training Portfolio must be completed in an IBMS accredited laboratory following graduation from Solent.
IBMS accreditation ensures a course covers the academic components of the standards of proficiency at the required level to meet HCPC standards for biomedical scientists.
To be considered for this course you will usually need to have studied A Level chemistry or biology (or equivalent).
Candidates should be passionate about scientific research and the study of disease.
This broad scientific programme provides the foundation for a wide range of scientific careers.
You could be working within the NHS, pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries.
You could also choose to continue your studies at postgraduate level.
Biomedical science at Solent is taught by researchers, academics, practitioners, and technicians with a variety of professional backgrounds.
The course is in the UK's top 10 for teaching (NSS 2022).
Technical instructors help you to develop your practical and analytical skills.
Visiting practitioners emphasises current industry practise and ensure that you are working at the cutting edge of biomedical technology.
You will make extensive use of our specialist teaching biochemistry and biology labs, all of which have a laminar flow hood and incubators for microbiology; spectrophotometers for biochemistry; PCR and gel electrophoresis imaging systems for molecular biology; and microscopes.
This module prepares you to develop and practice research skills required to propose, undertake and defend an independent research project in your final year of study.
This module will provide you with an opportunity to gain experience of undertaking a degree-related independent investigation in either a work-based, or academic environment.
Seventy per cent of all diagnoses in the NHS are based on results provided by laboratory services, according to the Institute of Biomedical Science.
Biomedical science underpins much of modern medicine and biomedical scientists contribute extensively to health and care, handling over 1 billion tests in the UK each year, analysing patient samples to diagnose diseases and evaluate the effectiveness of treatment.
Biomedical science is a fast-changing, dynamic and complex science that requires accuracy, efficiency and attention to detail - biomedical scientists are at the heart of healthcare, providing vital information on laboratory investigations to allow healthcare professionals to make informed clinical decisions.
Starting salary: £25,655 to £31,564
These are starting salaries for the NHS (Band 5).
With experience and/or specialist knowledge, you can earn a salary of £32,306 to £39,027 (Band 6).
Starting salary: £20,000 to £30,000
Salaries vary depending on the sector and area of toxicology you work in, as well as your skills, experience, and location.
Starting salary from: £35,392
Trainee clinical scientists in the NHS are usually employed at Band 6.
Once qualified, you could move to Band 7 with a salary range of £43,742 to 50,056.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeships/business-administrator-apprenticeship-online:
Learn the key skills to be able to supporting and engaging with different parts of the organisation and interact with internal or external customers.
This course is delivered online, meaning there's a high degree of flexibility for apprentices to study alongside their work, and for employers to suit the needs of their business.
You'll take part in regular workshops with your fellow students and you'll also receive dedicated 1-2-1 time with your tutor.
This course is also offered with flexible start dates to meet the needs of the employer and the apprentice, so you will never have to wait for the course to begin in the future.
We call this method 'roll on and roll off' so you can pick the month that suits your needs the best to start.
Business administrators have a highly transferable set of knowledge, skills and behaviours that can be applied in all sectors.
This includes small and large businesses alike; from the public sector, private sector and charitable sector.
The role may involve working independently or as part of a team and will involve developing, implementing, maintaining and improving administrative services.
Business administrators develop key skills and behaviours to support their own progression towards management responsibilities.
The business administrator is expected to deliver their responsibilities efficiently and with integrity – showing a positive attitude.
The role involves demonstrating strong communication skills (both written and verbal) and adopting a proactive approach to developing skills.
The business administrator is also expected to show initiative, managing priorities and own time, problem-solving skills, decision-making and the potential for people management responsibilities through mentoring or coaching others.
The modules you'll study on this apprenticeship will prepare you for this key role, from the fundamentals of business, to IT skills, planning and project management, communication and interpersonal skills, and continuous improvement, meaning you'll be able to make an impact in the workplace.
The administration role may be a gateway to further career opportunities, such as management or senior support roles.
This apprenticeship is perfect for those who may be new to working in administration support for an organisation and who wish to learn the fundamentals before progressing their career in this field.
This course is delivered online.
Solent’s virtual learning environment gives students 24-hour access to course materials, discussions, learning support and assignments.
You will need a personal computer or laptop and access to a broadband internet connection.
.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/apprenticeships/business-analyst-apprenticeship:
Develop your existing skills to become a business analyst, helping your organisation to deliver business and digital change successfully.
Business analysis exists in almost every sector, from not-for-profit organisations through to retail and the financial services.
It's fast-paced and collaborative and provides a recognised career with professionals taking lead roles in successful change delivery.
The broad purpose of the occupation is to understand the needs of stakeholders and how these can be met through business change and digital solutions.
Business analysts document business problems and user needs, and create solution requirements that align to best practice, and present them in a meaningful and logical way appropriate to the audience.
Business Analysts manage stakeholder relationships, ensuring collaboration between business and technical stakeholders.
By focusing on benefits and outcomes they ensure the right problems are solved and the right products are developed.
Apprentices graduating from this course will be well-equipped to pursue roles such as business systems analyst, IT business analyst, business process analyst.
This apprenticeship is ideally suited to those currently working in the field of business analysis.
Applicants should have an interest in business processes and business change and be confident working with stakeholders across the organisation.
Build the knowledge and skills to diagnose and analyse modern business challenges and develop innovative and value-adding strategies.
This master's degree covers themes of ethics, leadership, sustainability and innovation in a strategic context.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-management-bsc:
Solent Business School offers the skills and confidence you need to progress a successful career in business and international management – or even to start up your own business.
With a range of option choices to help you focus your personal career path, this challenging course will prepare you for the ever-changing business environment – teaching you to analyse future trends, identify local and broader impacts, and recommend sustainable, ethical solutions to contemporary business challenges.
Hone your skills through interactive learning sessions and a variety of practically focused assessments – giving you not just essential knowledge of business and management, but the understanding to apply that knowledge in real-world contexts.
We also pride ourselves on being interdisciplinary and preparing our students for the diverse and dynamic world of modern business.
You can also graduate with an additional Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Level 5 Management and Leadership qualification.
Accredited by with Dual Award:
This degree programme is aligned to CMI professional qualifications.
On completion of you degree, you'll also gain a CMI qualification, which can help boost employability prospects on graduation.
Solent’s business management degree is ideally suited if you want to develop strong business skills and prepare yourself for a successful career in a range of business industries – studying a curriculum that is not just about theory, but focused on real-world application.
You may not be sure yet which area of business will suit you, but all avenues are open - social enterprise, charity, government, big local, global business or a smaller entrepreneurial firm or start-up.
A Solent business management degree gives you the specialist business knowledge and broad transferable skills to find business-focused roles in any industry.
These will include careers in project management, logistics and distribution, human resources, sales, business development, sustainability, marketing, retail, management, and recruitment consultancy.
Our course will also provide you with the confidence, knowledge, and practical skills to start your own business.
Our graduates have secured jobs within companies such as Deloitte, DHL, Pinterest, ThinkEngine, Carnival UK, PwC, Airbus, Red Bull Racing to name only a few.
Teaching staff for the BSc (Hons) Business Management degree have extensive industry experience working in a wide range of business sectors as practitioners and are actively engaged with current research in the field.
Expand your understanding of key managerial concepts, including organisational purpose and structure, leadership, corporate culture, ethics, strategic decision-making, diversity and employment law - through case studies from today’s business environment.
Get to grips with finance and accounting, an essential part of any management role – exploring financial controls, budgeting, profit and loss, financial statements and more – through practical problem-based interactive sessions.
Explore strategies and cultures that promote creativity, enterprise and innovation, and examine leading individuals and organisations – developing your own entrepreneurial capacity, and learning to be creative, enterprising and innovative for others.
Employment embedded into your degree through this module will help you to explore key elements of business within your current part-time role that is directly linked to your career aspirations and area of specific interest.
To gain the credit for this module you will need to undertake a minimum of 40 hours of employment or work experience across the semester.
This can be achieved by utilising your existing part-time job role.
The experience gained should enhance your knowledge, skills and professional behaviours to support personal growth that meets industry standards set by employers.
This module examines processes, tools and techniques used in operations management to ensure customer satisfaction and analyse delivery issues, and provides opportunities to apply your knowledge in practice.
Informed by Association for Project Management (APM) standards, this module will teach you best practice including stakeholder engagement, communications and leadership – as well as exploring contemporary challenges in project management.
You’ll also have the opportunity to undertake the Project Fundamentals qualification for an additional cost.
To manage others, you need to reflect on self-management too.
This module explores your self-management, personal values and journey, interweaving the essential management and leadership skills to successfully manage teams.
This module will explore the role, legal status and challenges of social and community enterprise – letting you show employers you are values motivated and socially responsible, and understand ethical business.
Exploring the complexities of integrated marketing communications theory, you will research, plan and develop an integrated campaign from brief to execution, understanding consumers and appropriate media channels, and developing messages to help position a product or service.
Modern organisations use data to help them review, plan, and forecast, as well as for fraud detection, risk management, marketing and more.
This module incorporates advanced analytical and modelling techniques – as well as their practical applications.
Explore some of the most important contemporary business issues as a future manager, including urbanisation, demographic and social change, global economic shifts, technological advances, resource scarcity and climate change.
This module introduces models and concepts including the Pillars of Customer Experience and the experience economy, teaches you to evaluate the customer experience and journey using data, and explores modern tactics such as sensory and experiential marketing.
Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) requires a great deal of thought into the design, implementation and intended use.
This module draws upon demographic, accessibility, cognitive science and social and ethical principles, providing essential skills for analysis and design of efficient, easy-to-use systems.
The opportunity to study abroad broadens your horizons by adding an international dimension to your CV - essential to achieving success in today's fast-changing, global business environment.
An international placement boosts your employability and lets you ‘test drive’ a career to see if it’s right for you.
Enhance your professional skills, get practical experience, and build your network.
This module is crucial as it elevates your professional knowledge, skills, and behaviours through real-world employment.
It enhances your CV by integrating practical experience, supports self-awareness, and aligns with professional standards.
Flexible to accommodate existing part-time jobs, it ensures valuable, credit-earning work experience.
Learn how senior managers and chief executive officers identify, select and manage strategy.
Critically evaluate a wide range of strategic management theories and models, and learn how to apply and implement them.
Evaluate your aspirations and create a career development plan to start your own business or secure a graduate position – exploring digital profiles, job hunting, how to stand out, and more.
Develop your research and analytical skills, designing research in a way that is valid, and reliable, and apply it in business – impacting product development, customer service, strategy and more.
Apply research and analytical skills to your chosen topics of business.
Carry out primary research, interpret your findings using relevant tools and techniques, formulate options and draw conclusions and recommendations.
Develop the knowledge to overcome barriers to entrepreneurism, from lack of capital to fear of failure; explore planning, development and management techniques to take your business from aspiration to reality.
This module explores how key concepts and theories of marketing can be applied to new markets and countries.
You will analyse international markets, learn to understand cultural differences, and examine how businesses adapt marketing strategies for new markets.
Businesses need to be agile to adapt and thrive.
On this module you will develop your emotional intelligence (EQ), intercultural competence (ICC), and understanding of people management to embrace diversity and inclusivity, and co-create productivity in an age of digital transformation.
This module is crucial for aspiring leaders and managers, offering the chance to manage complex activities and gain significant responsibilities.
It enhances management and leadership skills, supports professional growth, and provides valuable work experience.
By utilising your part-time job, you can balance work and study effectively, adding real value to your CV.
To gain the credit for this module you will need to undertake 40 hours of employment across the semester.
Business graduates are in high demand worldwide, follow broad and diverse careers and are often highly paid.
Whatever the sector, every organisation needs individuals with a wide range of business skills in order to operate and excel, and those skills are highly transferable throughout your careers.
The skills and experience you earn during your degree will leave you well placed to run your own successful business or rise through the ranks of corporate management, into senior positions and even running the organisation as CEO or GM.
Graduate starting salary: £21,000 to £31,000
Business analysts with a few years' experience could earn between £35,000 and £65,000.
Experienced business analysts could earn up to £80,000.
Entry level: £18,000 to £25,000
More experienced and specialist business support advisers and coaches can earn up to £40,000.
Graduate salary: £25,000 to £28,000
At mid-management and with several years' experience, you can expect to earn between £30,000 and £60,000, depending on the region and sector you work in.
Every student at Solent University will also have the option to study an additional  qualification alongside their course.
While the CMI qualification is included within the course fees, undertaking Association of Project Management qualifications will require additional costs of:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-management-with-cyber-security-bsc-hons:
Kickstart a high-impact career!
Study business management with cyber security and unlock careers in tech, cyber defence, project management, and digital strategy.
Your future in business starts here.
Our BSc (Hons) Business Management with Cyber Security is your launchpad into the fast-moving digital economy.
This future-focused course mixes business management principles with cutting-edge cybersecurity strategies, so you’ll learn how to tackle the multifaceted challenges faced by contemporary organisations.
As cyber-attacks grow, business needs smart leaders who can spot risks, stop breaches, and stay competitive.
That could be you.
You won’t just sit in lectures, you’ll dive into real business challenges, work with industry experts, and the get hands-on with cybersecurity solutions within a business context, making you career-ready from day one.
You’ll explore everything from cyber risk assessments and compliance frameworks to incident response strategies, building real-world skills to tackle the digital threats of tomorrow.
With skills in both business and cybersecurity, you’ll be ready for loads of exciting roles such as business consultant, risk analyst, or even cyber team leader.
This course gives you the freedom to shape your path and chase the career that fits you best.
And because businesses everywhere need people who get both strategy and security, you’ll be in high demand from day one.
This course connects you with industry pros and like-minded students, opening doors to internships, job offers, and future career moves.
At Solent, you’ll build a network that could shape your future and gain real-world experience in a course designed with your career in mind.
You’re ambitious, forward-thinking and ready to lead in a world where business and cybersecurity go hand in hand.
If you want to shape the future, protect what matters and drive real change, this degree is your launchpad.
It’s built for future leaders like you, ready to turn big ideas into bold action.
Graduates of the BSc (Hons) Business Management with Cyber Security degree can pursue a variety of dynamic careers that blend business acumen with cybersecurity expertise.
Our Cisco networking labs, equipped with the latest technology, let you simulate real-world cyber threats and build defence strategies using advanced tools for ethical hacking, cyber forensics, and network testing.
You’ll also collaborate in modern workspaces designed for teamwork and innovation.
Plus, our digital library gives you access to journals, e-books, and databases covering the latest in business and cybersecurity, everything you need to stay ahead.
This module takes a hands-on approach to understanding how innovation and effective management drive success in today’s business world.
You'll actively explore how organisations function, examining leadership styles, communication, and decision-making through real-world scenarios and group activities.
Ethical considerations and corporate social responsibility are embedded throughout, encouraging you to reflect on the broader impact of business decisions.
In this module, you'll gain the core knowledge and practical skills to collect, analyse, and visualise data alongside an introduction to essential cybersecurity techniques used to safeguard digital systems and data.
You'll explore contemporary cyber threats and practical data mining methods, building a strong foundation for supporting secure, data-informed decision-making within business environments.
Develop a strong foundation in marketing and finance with this applied module.
You’ll explore how businesses engage stakeholders, plan budgets, and manage costs, while gaining practical insights into marketing strategies, market research, and more.
This module equips you with the skills to make informed, impact-driven decisions in current markets.
This module empowers students to transition smoothly from academia to employment by developing essential professional and academic skills, fostering reflective practice, employability, and lifelong learning.
It prepares students to confidently enter the job market, equipped with practical skills, career insights, and an effective professional mindset.
This module is crucial as it integrates employment into your degree, enhancing your CV and employability.
It offers flexibility to gain work experience which can be achieved using your part-time job.
You'll develop valuable skills and knowledge, reflecting on these to align with career aspirations and build a strong graduate portfolio.
This module integrates project and operations management, equipping students with skills in planning, leadership, process optimisation, and risk management.
Through real-world scenarios and industry cases, students learn to manage projects and streamline operations to deliver strategic value across diverse business environments.
This module will equip you with strategic skills in values-driven talent management and workforce planning.
Focusing on recruitment, retention, and development, it emphasises inclusive, sustainable practices.
Through real-world case studies and interactive learning, you'll gain practical insights essential for future HR and business leadership in an evolving organisational landscape.
Develop the leadership skills to build cyber-resilient organisations.
This module empowers students to design governance frameworks and lead operational resilience strategies.
Learn how to protect critical business functions, navigate regulations, and maintain stakeholder trust in a fast-changing digital environment.
Explore how businesses identify, assess and mitigate cyber risks while ensuring regulatory compliance.
This module explores industry frameworks, compliance strategies, and risk assessment tools - equipping you to create practical, business-aligned solutions to safeguard business operations and meet legal and ethical obligations.
Placement students are highly employable.
Work placements supercharge your CV, making you stand out in the job market.
They let you test-drive careers, gain invaluable experience, and develop professional skills.
You'll be more competitive for graduate roles and ready to apply new concepts and knowledge to excel in your final year.
Studying abroad gives business students a global perspective, cultural intelligence, and adaptability - qualities highly valued by employers.
It builds confidence, expands professional networks, and enhances communication skills.
Exposure to international markets and diverse business practices prepares graduates to thrive in global roles and stand out in a competitive job market.
Experience real-world strategy development in this Strategic Management module.
Collaborate on a live client brief (previous employers include Boots, Marlands, Paultons Park), engage directly with industry experts, and present innovative solutions in a dynamic, feedback-driven environment.
This module empowers you to apply cutting-edge strategy, sustainability, and CSR insights - perfect for future leaders ready to make impactful business decisions.
This module will provide you with an in-depth understanding of supply chain structures and processes within the context of global business.
Through this module, you'll learn how to manage and optimise global supply chains through an understanding of the roles, activities, inter-connected processes, and relationships of global supply chain actors.
Be prepared for the unexpected.
This module will equip you with the skills to detect, manage, and recover from cyber attacks.
Learn how to lead incident response teams, protect business assets, and ensure business continuity in an increasingly digital world.
The consultancy project lets you lead your own research into a real world business issue of personal or professional interest.
Develop critical thinking, problem solving, and consultancy skills while showcasing your initiative and creativity.
Tackle real challenges and boost your employability with a project that sets you apart.
The world of business is changing fast, and cyber security is at the heart of it.
As more companies go digital, the need to protect data, systems and people from cyber threats is more important than ever.
That’s where you come in.
The demand for skilled professionals in this space is only going up.
That means more job opportunities, faster career growth, and the chance to make a real impact in the digital world.
Cyber attacks can shut down businesses, leak private information and damage reputations.
That’s why organisations around the world are looking for people like you - future professionals who understand both business strategy and cyber security.
Experienced project managers can earn between £40,000 and £80,000.
Salaries will depend on the sector you work in.
One to three years' experience: £37,500 to £52,500
Cyber security analysts with four to six years' experience can earn between £47,500 and £60,000, rising to between £65,000 and £80,000 for senior analysts with seven to nine years' experience.
The tuition fees for the 2026/27 academic year are now yet available.
For guidance, the 2025/26 fees were:
The 2026/27 additional costs are not yet available.
For guidance, previous additional costs have been:
While the CMI qualification is included within the course fees, undertaking the Project Fundamentals Qualification for the Association of Project Management will require an exam fee to be paid, which is normally around £400.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-management-with-digital-innovation-bsc:
Gain the practice-led skills and industry insights needed for a successful career in business, with a strong focus on digital enterprise and innovation.
This versatile programme offers a dynamic curriculum that aligns with current industry demands for digital innovation across a range of business areas, preparing graduates to excel in a fast-paced and ever-evolving business environment.
You'll become equipped with the skills to navigate and lead in the digital age, fostering creativity and problem-solving abilities.
You'll gain hands-on experience through real-world projects, industry collaborations, and mentorship opportunities, enhancing your employability.
The focus on digital innovation prepares you to drive business success through technology and innovative solutions.
Throughout the course, you'll engage in real-world projects, mentorship opportunities, industry collaborations, and networking.
This hands-on approach ensures that when you graduate you're not only knowledgeable but also experienced in applying skills learned in practical settings.
The integration of live briefs and work placements provides invaluable exposure to the business world, enhancing employability and readiness for the job market.
The course emphasises practice-led education, which is central to developing the skills and problem-solving abilities required in today's business world.
By engaging with real-world scenarios and industry-led learning, you'll gain practical experience that goes beyond theoretical knowledge, helping to foster an entrepreneurial spirit and preparing you to tackle complex business challenges with confidence and creativity.
The programme is committed to encouraging an inclusive environment by integrating contemporary and diverse literature into its curriculum.
The course also features thematic case studies and collaborations with diverse industry speakers and a teaching team rich in varied experiences.
By embracing these diverse perspectives, students are prepared to become global citizens, understanding and navigating the complexities of global markets and cultures.
Our graduates are well-prepared for diverse career opportunities, from entrepreneurial ventures to management roles in established organisations.
The focus on practice-led skills, problem-solving abilities, and industry insights ensures that our graduates are highly sought after by employers.
This course is designed for people who want to discover how business, technology and innovation are combined and managed.
You’ll be adaptable, ready to embrace change, and fuelled by a desire to explore innovative solutions to business problems.
Your organisational skills and ability to build meaningful relationships will help you navigate the business landscape with integrity.
With technical proficiency and a commitment to continuous learning, you’ll stay ahead of industry trends.
Resilient and determined, you’ll turn challenges into opportunities, rising above obstacles with confidence.
A degree in Business Management with Digital Innovation can open doors to a world of exciting and impactful career opportunities, such as:
This module introduces foundational concepts of artificial intelligence and its transformative role in driving innovation.
You'll discover AI applications across industries, focusing on problem-solving, creativity, and ethical considerations.
This module prepares you for dynamic careers by fostering critical thinking, technical proficiency, and innovative approaches to leveraging AI technologies.
During this module you'll examine the integration of technology within business operations, exploring digital transformation strategies, enterprise systems, and data-driven decision-making.
You'll gain insights into managing digital ecosystems, fostering innovation, and addressing challenges in a rapidly evolving digital landscape.
Ultimately, you will become equipped with the knowledge and skills required for leadership roles in tech-driven enterprises.
Explore hands-on applications of artificial intelligence in the dynamic AI Innovation Lab module.
You'll be guided to gain practical experience of AI tools and to develop innovative solutions through AI tools, emphasising problem-solving, creativity, and ethics.
Prepare for future-focused careers by mastering AI integration across industries, fostering technical expertise, and strategic thinking in real-world contexts.
Employers today are looking for a combination of technical and soft skills that enable professionals to thrive in dynamic business environments.
Courses in business analytics, information systems, and data visualisation teach you how to interpret data and use digital tools effectively.
Starting salary: £22,000 to £25,000
As a digital marketing officer or executive, with a few years' experience, you could earn in the region of £22,000 to £28,000.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-management-with-digital-technologies-bsc:
From enquiry, analysis, evaluation and communication to knowledge of the latest business techniques and innovations, the course offers the complete package of business management skills for a great career – along with an innovative focus on digital technologies and their impact.
From blockchain to diversity, from horizon scanning to global digital solutions, you will study the latest innovations in theory and technology, learn to analyse future trends and identify the impacts on organisations and society – and recommend sustainable and ethical solutions to modern business challenges, applying your new knowledge and skills to real-world problems.
Solent Business School delivers the skills and confidence you’ll need to progress a successful career in business and management – or even to start up your own business.
Led by a diverse teaching team with a range of business expertise and connections, you will expand your career horizons and professional network.
58% of graduates from a CMI-accredited degree were in professional roles within six months (figure taken from the CMI).
Solent Business School awarded:
The HE Partner Award recognises outstanding positive impact on student employability, enriched experience, and professional development, having implemented and taken full advantage of the benefits of a CMI partnership.
You have the opportunity to obtain a professional membership as part of this degree
Business management at Solent Business School is ideally suited to students who want to lead, manage and make a difference.
You want to add and create value for society the economy and yourself.
You may not be sure yet which industry or organisation will suit you.
You may work for a social enterprise, charity, government, big local, global business or smaller entrepreneurial firm or start-up.
You may even start your own business.
Whatever your aspiration, you know you have the potential to be a creative, problem solver with determination.
Our course will provide the digital business, research-informed insights and practical work skills to help you unlock that potential.
When you graduate from this innovative and engaging course, you will be well prepared for a wide range of careers in business and the digital fields, including roles such as business systems analyst, UX designer, digital transformation specialist, digital communications officer, and project manager.
Our graduates have secured jobs within companies such as Cisco, BMW, Pinterest, ThinkEngine, Amazon, Red Bull Racing, McLaren and Sky Media to name only a few.
Discover user experience (UX) and the principles of user-centred design.
Develop skills in planning, design, prototype and test for web, mobile and more; explore information architecture and content strategy; and learn to analyse and work to client budgets and objectives.
After Brexit and Covid, business management provides the engine for vital social and economic growth.
Business management at Solent has a focus on digital, global, entrepreneurial and sustainable business to ensure you have the skills to be future ready, whatever the future may bring.
Our local and wider global business connections help to ensure our course is current and relevant.
We have live briefs and address real business challenges, we even use strategic games to simulate the market and economic movements that firms and organisations have to respond to in the real world.
Starting salary: £19,000 to £35,000
Experienced UX designers can earn between £30,000 and £50,000.
Salaries vary depending on the sector you work in, the type of employer, skills, and location.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-management-with-entrepreneurship-bsc:
This dynamic course supports you to develop the skills you'll need to become an entrepreneur, and have a successful career in a pioneering enterprise.
This degree is designed to equip you with the practice-led skills and industry insights needed to launch and grow innovative ventures.
The versatile programme offers a dynamic curriculum that aligns with current industry demands, preparing you to excel in a fast-paced and ever-evolving business environment after graduation.
The entrepreneurship pathway allows you to tailor your learning journey to your specific career goals, interests and aspirations.
This could be starting your own business, preparing to take over a family-owned company, working in an innovative and dynamic enterprise or building a social enterprise for a better and more just society.
This personalised approach ensures that you can develop a unique skill set to set you apart in the competitive career market.
You will study a range of areas including project and operations management, marketing principles, talent management and workforce planning, market trends, and real-world skills.
By engaging with real-world scenarios and industry-led learning, you'll gain practical experience that goes beyond theoretical knowledge.
This approach fosters an entrepreneurial spirit and prepares you to tackle complex business challenges with confidence and creativity.
This course is ideal for those who will thrive in a practice-led educational environment, where real-world projects, internships, and mentorship opportunities are integral to the learning experience.
This course is your gateway to a successful career in business, providing you with the tools, experiences, and support to thrive in the fast-paced world of business.
If you’re ready to take the first step towards making a significant impact, this program will help you lead with purpose and inspire others along the way.
A degree in business management with entrepreneurship opens up a wide range of career opportunities upon graduation.
This includes roles in; management consultancy, social enterprise, the public sector, marketing, advertising, sales and project management - as well as becoming an entrepreneur and starting your own business.
A successful entrepreneur or intrapreneur understands how customer problems are identified, discovers openings for new business solutions that match customer needs, and uses that information and inspiration to generate something real and meaningful.
This module will unlock your creativity and give you tools to drive change and disrupt markets.
This module offers a thorough and focussed exploration focus of innovation as a strategic and core operational activity in modern organisations.
By recognising that innovation is a key driver of competitive advantage, resilience, and sustainable business growth, you will critically examine how innovation can be successfully implemented and managed across a range of business sectors and sizes of enterprise from local to global.
Utilising everything learned on this degree, students who've chosen this pathway are now ready and driven to create an enterprise that provides genuine value to potential customers.
During this module, you'll sharpen your skills, hone your knowledge and build a professional-standard investable business plan that could change your future.
Our local and wider global business connections ensure that the course is current, relevant and informed by the latest thinking.
Our network of trusted and valued business partners offer you live briefs which address real business challenges, and we use strategic games to simulate the market and economic movements that firms and organisations have to respond to in the real world.
Whenever possible, we also bring in guest speakers from industry to offer their insight and share their current experiences.
Typical salary: £25,000 - £55,000
Economic development advisers and management consultants can earn significantly higher salaries.
Typical salary: £30,000 to £60,000
Salaries are affected by regional variances, and pay is generally higher in London and the South East and is also dependent on the sector you work in.
It's common for bonuses to be paid and some jobs will be advertised with 'uncapped commission', or advertised with a basic salary and a higher on-target earnings.
The tuition fees for the 2026/27 academic year are not yet available.
For guidance, previous costs have been:

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-management-with-finance-bsc:
The degree enables you to add a Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Level 5 Management and Leadership qualification to your CV when you graduate.
Learn to analyse future trends and identify the impacts of economic changes on capital markets and borrowing, and build a comprehensive understanding of the workings of national and international capital markets.
You will explore financial language and theory, develop enquiry, analysis, evaluation and communication skills, and learn to offer practical, sustainable and ethical solutions to challenging real-world problems.
Solent Business School will help you develop the skills and confidence to progress a successful career in finance, business and management or even start up your own business.
Our courses are taught by a talented and diverse teaching team with a wealth of finance and business expertise – and real-world connections – giving you both academic credibility and the chance to build your professional skills and network.
Ideally suited to students who want to develop their financial literacy and management skills, the course gives you the tools to create value for society, the economy and yourself.
You may work in financial services, in local or global business, or in a smaller entrepreneurial firm or start-up.
Whatever your aspiration, you know you have the potential to be an analytical, creative, problem solver with determination.
On this exciting course you’ll gain valuable and applied finance and management skills, from interpersonal skills to capital trading to data analysis.
When you graduate, you will have a broad range of transferable skills, allowing you to pursue an exciting career in a wide range of industries as a management accountant, assistant fund manager, business adviser, project manager, financial analyst, or cost accountant.
Our graduates have secured jobs within companies such as HSBC, Deloitte, JP Morgan, PwC, Credit Suisse, McKinsey & Company, Airbus, Red Bull Racing to name only a few.
Business, management and finance provide the engine for vital social and economic growth.
Understanding how money influences both people and places, the ability to manage finance is a talent that can take you anywhere in the world.
By studying business management with finance, you build skills that are transferable across any sector and professional field, such as analysis, risk, project management, finance, planning and strategy.
Our local and wider global business connections ensure that currency and relevancy of our course.
We have live briefs and address real business and finance challenges; we even use strategic games to simulate the market and economic movements that firms and organisations have to respond to in the real world.
It's common for bonuses to be paid and some jobs will be advertised with 'uncapped commission', or advertised with a basic salary and a higher on-target earnings (OTE) figure.
Starting salaries can be as high as £45,000 in the investment banking sector.
Qualified, mid-level finance managers with five to ten years' experience usually earn an average of £55,000 to £65,000.
Senior financial managers, with around 10+ years' experience, earn £65,000 to £115,000+.
Junior consultants: £25,000 to £33,500
Salaries vary greatly depending on the location, type and size of consultancy.
With around three to five years' experience, it's possible for management consultants to earn up to £50,000.
With significant experience, it's possible to earn up to £125,000.
After considerable experience, management consultants can work on a consultancy basis, charging a considerable day rate or project fee.

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/business-management-with-marketing-bsc:
Solent Business School offers the skills and confidence you need to progress a successful career in marketing, business or international management.
Incorporating dedicated marketing units focused on creativity and promotion, this challenging course provides everything you need for the ever-changing business environment – teaching you to analyse future trends, identify the local and broader impacts, and recommend sustainable, ethical solutions to contemporary business challenges.
You will hone your skills through interactive learning sessions and a variety of practically-focused assessments, building a strong foundation of knowledge in business and marketing – along with the analytical skills and practical understanding to apply that knowledge in real-world contexts.
Our talented teaching team offer a wealth of experience in varied national business and marketing environments and cultures, giving you an exceptional range of expertise to call upon.
BSc (Hons) Business Management with Marketing is ideally suited to students who want to lead, manage and use creativity to make a difference in the world.
Whatever your aspiration – whether it’s social enterprise, charity, government, big local/global business or a smaller entrepreneurial firm or start-up – the business management with marketing degree will provide the tools and the knowledge to shape a future that’s bright with opportunities.
When you graduate from this innovative and engaging course, you will have a broad range of transferable skills, allowing you to pursue a career as marketing manager, social media specialist, digital marketer, business development manager, marketing communications professional and project manager.
Our graduates have secured jobs within companies such as Pinterest, ThinkEngine, Amazon, Red Bull Racing, Carnival UK, McLaren, B&Q and Sky Media to name only a few.
Content Partnerships Lead
Business and marketing is the engine of global prosperity that drives innovation, development and success, especially in a post-Covid, post-Brexit scenario.
Business and marketing both offer unique opportunities to make an impact at local, regional, national and global levels – and our BSc (Hons) Business Management with Marketing degree will enable you to be future ready.
Senior marketing executives (with around five years' experience) can earn between £30,000 and £45,000, with marketing managers earning up to £60,000.
Marketing directors can earn from £60,000 to more than £100,000.
Typical salary: £25,000 to £38,000
You would generally start on a salary in the region of £18,000 to £24,000.
With experience it is possible to progress to account manager or senior account executive level, where salaries can range from £25,000 to £38,000 depending on your level of experience.
Salaries for account directors/senior account directors are around £40,000 to £75,000+.
The higher end of this scale is likely to be for the most senior positions with large agencies.
The strategic value of internal communication is being increasingly recognised within organisations across all sectors.
This is providing additional opportunities for...

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/cgi-and-visual-effects-ba:
With great industry connections and fully up-to-date facilities, this flexible course can help you get your dream job in any of the 3D or visual effects industries.
This is a thriving sector in the UK, and Solent’s CGI and Visual Effects degree can take you in so many directions, from explosive film VFX to 3D character design, from architectural visualisation to motion graphics, from virtual production to motion capture.
You will grow from a strong foundation of skills taught during your first year to become a fully industry-ready practitioner in the direction of your choosing.
Our top-quality teaching, as well as our small course size, means you will be individually guided towards you ultimate career.
We support you to build an industry network during your degree to help you find that first entry-level position through networking and dissemination of your work, hearing from guest speakers at our weekly forums, attending annual events such as CGFX, Industry Week, and our Graduate Show, as well as studio trips.
Alongside this you'll have access to Solent’s many incredible facilities and will attend regular weekly feedback sessions using our industry rushes pipeline.
Our annual guest speaker event, CGFX, draws in some of the industry's top experts, allowing students to network and ask questions during the Q&A.
Previous companies that have attended the event include Rockstar, Aardman, Framestore, Airship Interactive, MPC, Jellyfish, Ubisoft and many more.
Recognised as:
Houdini Certification provides access to exclusive webinars, online presentations, and portfolio reviews, for the advanced industry software, Houdini, helping them showcase their talents and build industry connections.
Academic Partner of Unreal Engine
The Unreal Academic Partner Programme recognises degrees that provide high quality educational opportunities with experienced tutors, proven curricula, facilities, and resources to create positive outcomes for students.
Solent’s CGI and Visual Effects course is ideally suited to students who want to learn and develop a range of skills for entry into a range of exciting careers.
Applicants should have a portfolio of art, design or technical work to show at interview.
Although students are not expected to have examples of code, this is a perfectly valid portfolio choice for students choosing to pursue a more technical career path in the visual industries, particularly video games or visual effects.
This course can lead to many exciting careers in the film, TV, advertising, video games and visualisation sectors.
Students build a solid portfolio perfect for a generalist or entry-level specialist position.
With emerging markets, we are increasingly seeing exciting opportunities in simulation, virtual/ augmented reality, visualisation, military and many other industries that we are excited to present to our students.
Quality Assurance Tester
Throughout your studies you will have access to a wide range of up-to-date industry-standard software and facilities.
Virtual Production Studio with green screen and Mo-Sys tracking facilities; in-house Dolby Atmos cinema; specialist media production store with access to thousands of cameras and other items; computer suites with dedicated high-spec PCs and industry-standard software; motion capture suite; Oculus Rift, Oculus Go, HTC Vive and Microsoft HoloLens VR/AR equipment; Shotgun for asset management; Portable green screen; HDRI chrome/grey balls; portable Faro LIDAR scanner, Insta 360 Cameras; and 3D printing.
This module introduces students to a variety of foundation techniques, concepts, tools and work practices specific to the VFX pipeline using industry standard software.
This module sets the groundwork for your journey as a digital artist.
It provides a global overview of the production pipelines used in different sectors of the digital art industries.
This module also aims to help you start to develop your visual intelligence and understand the various ways in which visual intelligence is embedded in digital art in specific sectors.
The Real Time CGI module is a fantastic chance to experiment with some very up-and-coming technology.
With the level of detail that game engines can produce rivalling and, in some cases, now exceeding the level that can be accomplished via traditional rendering methods – game engines are a rapidly growing technology that you need to be playing with.
This module gives you a chance to play with this and adapt this to a specific project that you choose.
CGI and VFX are nothing without animation.
Animation is the addition of life to your CG models that turns them from static models into living, believable creations.
This module will starts with animation of basic objects and then introduces you to the many varied CGI tools for animating more advanced elements such as motion capture.
This module will introduce you to 3D and 2D photorealism skills that are common throughout CGI as well as being specific to the Architectural Visualisation industry.
As well as precise modelling, physically based lighting and materials and up-to-date rendering practices, you will be encouraged to develop still images artistically using 2D post-production techniques.
It might be a stereotype, but all Hollywood VFX blockbusters seem to have things exploding, buildings collapsing, tidal waves, smoke, fire and various other forms of disaster.
You can make these things happen too (inside a computer only!).
While the computer can help you create these effects, the artistic considerations such as drama, narrative and impact are key and the way you control the simulation involves a very different skill set.
This module gives you a great opportunity to try your hand as a junior on-set VFX Supervisor and capture some of various types of reference that a VFX team will need.
You will also learn what type of data is acquired, how it is processed and the various roles on set.
This module is a chance to dive into the exciting world of character development and sculpting.
You will be learning about muscle groups, anatomy and sculpting software, while combining this knowledge to build exciting characters.
In this module you will really start to grasp the technical areas of CG, with complex and cutting edge topics such as set extension, advanced colour theory, further CG and deep compositing – you will soon start to delve deep into the more technical areas of visual effects and employ more technical concepts in your work.
This module is where you start to think about and explore your favourite area of CGI or VFX with a view to specialising in a particular area for your future career.
You will be introduced to research techniques to enable you to explore an area of your choosing in-depth both theoretically and practically, giving you the chance to try some cutting-edge industry techniques.
There is no better way to explore your creativity than through traditional drawing and this will free you to create concepts and ideas for your digital work in other units and to develop your own artistic style.
Using traditional drawing methods you will explore areas such as the human figure, movement and composition while continuing to develop practical skills, observation and recall.
You will be introduced to scripting as a tool to extend the capability of the software you use for CGI and VFX and apply it in different areas of the pipeline.
This module is where you decide on and plan your Final Major Project and identify all the things you still want to learn before you leave.
The things you learn in this module will directly inform your Final Major Project so that you know when you start it that you can hit the ground running and spend more time in production and less in making mistakes.
You will also do any previz and concept work you need for your project.
This project will form the main part of your portfolio for future employability or further study.
Show just how good you can be at your subject when you get the chance to devote significant time and effort to it.
Your project will sit in one of three domains; art, technical art or research depending on your skills and future career goals.
Expanding on the research skills you learned in Year 2, you will develop stronger research skills including creating a research question, conducting a literature review and applying relevant research methodologies.
Although practically based, this module will encourage you to engage with the theories of art and their relation to CGI/VFX and challenge you to connect your practical and theoretical understanding of art with your practise in CGI/VFX.
This module continues to develop your coding skills and solidifies and deepens your understanding of the maths involved in creating modern CGI/VFX tools.
CGI and VFX artists create photoreal and digitally-generated imagery.
The role requires the seamless integration of these effects into live action in feature films, television and, increasingly, online and console gaming.
There are also other growing markets that need artists such as simulation, architecture/ military and traditional visualisation, Virtual and Augmented Reality.
You'll use the latest technology to produce computer-generated creatures, crowds and other digital assets.
There is also the growing area of digital particle effects, which includes fluid and fire, as well as object and lighting manipulation.
In the UK, you'll mainly find VFX work in Cardiff, Bristol, Belfast and London.
The UK VFX industry is the largest in Europe and second biggest in the world.
The film industry is primarily in London, but there are smaller indie firms in smaller towns and cities around the UK if you want to work in advertising.
Junior VFX artist: £30,000 to £38,000
Entry level salaries for a VFX artist are £22,000 to £27,000.
A junior VFX artist with several years’ experience can earn £30,000 to £38,000.
Senior VFX artists with over seven years' experience can earn £50,000 and beyond.
Typical salary: £25,000 to £40,000

New sentences found on https://solent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/civil-engineering-hnc:
Currently employed in the construction industry?
If you want to further your career in civil engineering, this practical and flexible course will prepare you for a range of higher technician roles.
Solent’s industry-focused civil engineering Higher Nationals programme helps build upon existing skills to prepare students for a higher technician role within the civil engineering sector.
During the course, students will be introduced to key principles in the fields of numeracy, materials, mechanics, construction technology, and health and safety.
As the course progresses, learning will focus on the more specialised areas of surveying, geotechnics, and structural analysis.
To aid learning and help build essential hands-on skills, some modules of the course are supported by practical work and field exercises.
This strong emphasis on practical learning has meant the course has been able to maintain a high graduate success rate and offer enhanced career development.
This course will develop your vocational skills, including research, analysis, planning and organisation, to supplement your proficiency.
For students looking to take their academic qualifications further, the HNC programme provides a platform for entering on to a number of post-HNC courses, including full- and part-time degrees.
Professional Bodies
This qualification meets the academic benchmark for engineering technician status with the five professional bodies shown above.
Joint Board of Moderators
The Joint Board of Moderators for the ICE, Institution of Structural Engineers, CIHT, IHE and the Permanent Way Institution have approved this course as fully satisfying the academic base for engineering technician
Solent’s civil engineering HNC is perfect for those already in the construction industry who are looking to study part-time whilst continuing to work.
The course content is ideal for those wishing to further their career and work towards higher technician roles.
The nature of this course means that the majority of students are already in employment.
Completion of the course holds the potential for future career advancement.
This module will introduce numerical processes and procedures that are commonly used in the Civil Engineering industry.
Learners are to identify appropriate numerical techniques as well as methods for checking solutions for appropriate accuracy, suitability and presentation for commercial use.
This module covers three broad inter-related areas namely: common civil engineering materials; laboratory measurement of material physical properties; properties and particulate nature of soils.
This module introduces students to the legal framework required for the production of Civil Engineering works and also the methods and techniques used in Civil Engineering Projects.
This module builds on the behaviour of different structural materials examined in Civil Engineering Materials and considers the designer’s role and responsibilities in terms of Health and Safety, buildability and sustainable construction.
The aim of this module is to introduce management principles, practices and standards relating to civil engineering projects throughout their project life cycle.
This module will help you develop the practical skills civil engineering technicians use within the workplace.
Students will be able to carry out fundamentals of land surveying and its application in civil engineering and be able to utilise industry standard electronic drafting software packages to produce civil engineering 2-D and 3-D drawings.
The UK construction industry is thriving.
With industry output worth over £110 billion per annum and contributing 7% to UK gross domestic product, construction offers a huge variety of opportunities, with excellent salaries and employment opportunities.
The built environment group has a long history of close relationships with employers and the Institution of Civil Engineers.
The programme also benefits from an annual visit by the regional membership development officer from the Institution of Civil Engineers.
This helps to fosters close links between the professional body and local employers.
Graduate: £26,000 and £32,500
Junior/graduate members earn an average salary of £34,454; this is lower for non-members.
The average salary for civil engineer members of the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) is £56,965, and at director level or above is £78,333.
With fellow status, and in certain locations, this can be higher.
Starting salary: £26,000 to £32,500
The average salary for civil engineer members of the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) is £56,965.
The average salary of a director (or above) is £78,333.